Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Directors remuneration report Recognising continued progress on the execution of our strategy and enhancing fair pay for all of our colleagues Committee composition Key highlights Attendance at scheduled meetings Financial and strategic performance in 2017 delivered a Group scorecard outcome of C M Hodgson Chair 6 6 66 per cent of the maximum 1 Dr L Cheung 5 6 Executive directors annual incentives were 61 per cent of xed remuneration Dr B E Grote 6 6 2017 Group discretionary incentives were $1,146 million N Kheraj 6 6 We have developed a Fair Pay Charter to support our objective of delivering fair and J M Whitbread 6 6 competitive remuneration to all colleagues globally 1 Louis Cheung was unable to attend one meeting due to travel commitments We are making good progress against our strategy, securing the foundations to Other attendees for relevant parts of Committee meetings include: Chairman: Group Chief Executive: reposition the Group and improve our financial performance.
Capital and liquidity are Group Head, Human Resources: Global Head, strong and the Group has delivered an increase of $1,917 million in underlying Pro t Performance, Reward and Conduct: Head, Executive Before Tax.
Overall, the Group scorecard was assessed at 66 per cent of the maximum Compensation & Reward Governance: GroupCompany and is set out in detail on page 87.
Secretary: Group Chief Financial Of cer: GroupChief Risk Of cer: Group General Counsel.
When determining the 2017 remuneration outcomes, the Committee has continued to recognise both the importance of rewarding and incentivising employees to execute the The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at www.
com termsofreference long-term goals and of taking a global approach to remuneration.
We are an international employer with wage in ation pressures in many of the emerging markets in which the Committee role and focus Group operates.
The Committee has oversight of the reward policies for Standard Chartered employees.
It is responsible Group-wide remuneration in 2017 for setting the principles and governance framework for remuneration decisions.
The Committee determined that total discretionary incentives in 2017 should be In particular, the Committee: $1,146 million.
This includes annual incentives, long-term incentives and incentives paid to eligible leavers, representing an increase of 10 per cent on 2016.
The increase re ects Determines and agrees with the Board the framework and policy for the remuneration of the Group Chairman, improved financial performance and progress against the Groups strategic objectives Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer and as set out in the scorecard.
Incentive awards are based on Group and business area other designated senior executives performance, assessed using balanced scorecards, and individual performance, which Approves proposals to award high remuneration is determined based on each employees individual achievement, conduct, values and packages to new recruits behaviour.
The total incentives of the Group are 5 per cent lower than in 2013.
Oversees the remuneration of material risk takers Ensures that the remuneration policies are appropriate Directors remuneration in 2017 and consistent with effective risk management In May 2016 shareholders approved a new directors remuneration policy, which is Approves the Group discretionary incentives each year aligned to the Group strategy.
Under the policy, executive directors were eligible in 2017 for a maximum annual incentive of 80 per cent of xed remuneration and a maximum Approves the Groups Fair Pay Charter principles, which guide reward decisions for all employees long-term incentive award of 120 per cent of xed remuneration.
The Committee determined that Bill Winters and Andy Halford should receive total annual and long-term incentives of 181 per cent of xed remuneration 178 per cent in 2016.
The annual incentive outcome for both Bill and Andy was 61 per cent of xed Contents remuneration based on an assessment of the scorecard and personal performance Directors remuneration report against their objectives.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP awards will be granted in March 84 Our Fair Pay Charter 2018 to Bill and Andy, delivered in ordinary shares with a value of 120 per cent of xed 85 Directors remuneration summary remuneration at the time of award.
These awards will be subject to the satisfaction of 86 The Remuneration Committee long-term performance measures, which are assessed after three years.
87 2017 directors remuneration 92 2018 policy implementation for directors 93 Group-wide remuneration in 2017 95 Additional remuneration disclosures 103 Directors remuneration policy 83 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report During the year, feedback was received from shareholders on the decision, the Committee also took into account the average salary targets in the 2017-19 LTIP.
The Committee recognises that the return increase made to the broader employee population since 2014, which on equity RoE target range in the 2017-19 LTIP is not an acceptable was, on average, 4 per cent each year.
The Committee will continue to end goal but a staging point in the planned improvement.
Target review xed remuneration annually.
setting is thoroughly reviewed every year.
The performance measures The structure of directors remuneration will remain unchanged in for 2018-20 LTIP awards will remain one-third RoE plus Common 2018.
We will propose a new remuneration policy to shareholders at Equity Tier 1 CET1 underpin, one-third relative total shareholder the 2019 AGM.
return TSR and one-third strategic measures.
The targets for the 2018-20 LTIP awards were considered carefully, to ensure they are Our Fair Pay Charter realistic, challenging and relevant to the Groups strategy over the three-year performance period.
The RoE target range for the 2018-20 Attracting, retaining and incentivising high-quality employees is LTIP is 6 per cent to 9 per cent.
More detail on the 2018-20 LTIP essential to delivering on our purpose and executing the strategy.
In awards can be found on page 89. support of this the Committee has overseen the development of a Fair Pay Charter during 2017.
The Charter sets out the principles LTIP awards and underpin shares granted to Andy Halford in March we will use to determine and deliver pay for all employees globally, 2015 will not pay out in March 2018 as the performance measures including senior management and executive directors.
Bill Winters did not participate in the March already implemented many of these principles and further progress 2015 LTIP.
The Charter and more details on the activity planned during 2018 is set out below.
I will update shareholders Directors remuneration in 2018 on our progress in next years report.
After a review of xed remuneration for 2018, it was determined I look forward to meeting with shareholders during 2018 and hearing that there will be no change for Bill Winters.
For Andy Halford it was your views.
noted there had been no change to his xed remuneration since his appointment in June 2014.
Taking into account his development in the role over that time and benchmarking data for global peers, the Committee awarded a salary increase to Andy of just under 5 per cent, from 850,000 to 890,000 with effect from 1 April.
No change was made to his xed pay allowance FPA.
There is therefore Christine Hodgson an increase to his xed remuneration of 3 per cent.
In making the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Our Fair Pay Charter 1.
W e commit to pay a living wage in all our markets by 2020 and In developing the Charter the Committee has sought to create a seek to go beyond compliance with minimum wage requirements framework which supports our objective of delivering fair and competitive remuneration to all colleagues globally.
W e provide an appropriate mix of xed and variable pay and a re ects our existing remuneration approach in many areas, but also core level of bene ts to ensure a minimum level of earnings and sets some new, stretching goals which will take a number of years to security to colleagues and to re ect the Groups commitment reach.
The Group has already started work to implement these new to wellbeing objectives and more is planned for 2018: 3.
W e support colleagues in working exibly, in ways that balance During 2017 we introduced a global exible working policy to both business needs and their personal circumstances, and support our colleagues in managing the boundaries between home provide colleagues with the opportunity to select the combination and work life, supporting individuals who sometimes need to work and level of bene ts that is right for them remotely, vary the time of their working day, or consider part-time 4.
Pay i s well administered with colleagues paid accurately, on time hours or job shares.
We also increased our minimum standards of and in a way that is convenient parental leave globally.
These changes have already had an impact in increasing employee engagement and boosting productivity 5.
W e provide a competitive total xed and variable pay opportunity that enables us to attract, motivate and retain colleagues based In support of our commitment to reward colleagues in a way that is on market rates for their role, location, performance, skills and free from discrimination, equal pay assurance is part of our annual experience performance management and remuneration review.
During 2017, we implemented a globally consistent process for conducting 6.
T he structure of pay and bene ts is consistent for colleagues equal pay assurance, supported by improved analytics.
Outcomes based on their location and role, with a clear rationale for from our 2017 equal pay review by gender were reviewed by the exceptions Management Team and the Committee 7.
W e are committed to rewarding colleagues in a way that is free Our current approach is to pay colleagues salaries at a market from discrimination on the basis of diversity, as set out in our competitive level for their individual role, skills and experience.
In our Group Code of Conduct Charter we commit to ensure that all colleagues receive salaries at 8.
W e ensure pay decisions re ect the performance of the individual, or above the living wage in each of our respective markets by 2020. the business they work in and the Group, and recognise the 96 per cent of colleagues are based outside of Europe & Americas, potential, conduct, behaviours and values demonstrated by in many locations where living wages are not currently clearly each individual fide ned.
During 2018 we will review our approach to setting living wages in each of our markets to support this Charter commitment 9.
W e set clear expectations for how colleagues are rewarded and the principles guiding decisions, including clear personal We currently provide all colleagues with bene ts, based on the objectives and feedback practice in each local market.
In 2018, we will start a four-year programme to redesign our bene ts offering in each country.
W e provide clear communication of pay and performance Treating everyone fairly regardless of seniority, age or personal decisions, and seek feedback and input from colleagues on circumstances is one of the key aims, as is giving employees more our pay structures and outcomes choice on a wide range of bene ts to suit their individual needs Standard Chartered 84 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Directors remuneration summary Maximum annual incentive and LTIP opportunity as a percentage Phased rebalancing of the annual and long-term of xed remuneration dened as salary, FPA and pension incentive opportunity under the directors remunerationpolicy 2018 80% 120% In 2017, the annual incentive opportunity was a maximum of 80 per cent of xed remuneration, compared to a maximum of 40 per cent of xed remuneration in 2016.
The value of the 2018-20 2017 80% 120% LTIP opportunity was 120 per cent of xed remuneration compared to a 2017-19 LTIP opportunity of 160 per cent of xed remuneration.
2016 40% 160% In 2015, the executive directors received no annual incentive and 200 per cent of xed remuneration as a 2016-18 LTIP award.
2015 200% This phased rebalancing was put in place to increase the focus on long-term performance in the early years of the Groups turnaround.
Annual incentive LTIP There is no change to the maximum incentive opportunity or mix for 2018.
Variable remuneration awarded in respect of 2017 The annual incentive for 2017 is based on the Group scorecard outcome of 66 per cent of the maximum and the executive directors personal performance in their respective areas of responsibility.
Executive directors will also receive an LTIP award of 120 per cent of xed remuneration, subject to an RoE target with CET1 underpin, a relative TSR target and a combination of strategic measures focused on the delivery of the strategy.
Detailed information on the determination of individual variable awards can be found on pages 87 to 89.
W T Winters A N Halford 2017 2016 2017 2016 Annual incentive 000 1,678 497 1,039 308 Annual incentive as a percentage of xed remuneration 61% 18% 61% 18% LTIP award value of shares subject to performance conditions 000 3,312 4,416 2,051 2,734 LTIP award as a percentage of xed remuneration 120% 160% 120% 160% Total variable remuneration as a percentage of xed remuneration 181% 178% 181% 178% Executive directors remuneration structure in 2018 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 Implementation for 2018 Bill Winters: 1,150,000 unchanged from 2017 Salary Andy Halford: 890,000 increased from 850,000 with effect from 1 April 2018 Bill Winters: 1,150,000 unchanged from 2017 Fixed pay Andy Halford: 519,000 unchanged from 2017 allowance Allocated in shares during 2018 and released from 2019 Phased release FPA over five years 40 per cent of salary Pension If any new executive director is appointed prior to the adoption of a new directors remuneration policy, there will be a review of the pension allowance Maximum of 80 per cent of xed remuneration Annual Determined based on a balanced scorecard.
Personal incentive performance is also considered Awarded The Group scorecard has 50 per cent financial measures and 50 per cent strategic measures.
Full details can be found on page 92 Delivered in March 2019 following year end Maximum of 120 per cent of xed remuneration LTIP Award deferred for a total of seven years, with performance measured over 2019 to 2021, vesting Phased vesting Performance period between 2022 and2026 Performance measures for LTIP awards to be granted in March 2019 will be disclosed in next years annual report 85 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report The Remuneration Committee Advice to the Committee Priorities for the Committee in 2018 The Committee was assisted in its considerations by Speci c priorities for the Committee in 2018, in addition to its usual  LLP PwC, who were formally re-appointed scheduled activities, will be to: by the Committee as its remuneration advisor in August 2017 following Review the remuneration policy for executive directors and a review of potential advisors and the quality of advice received.
It is all employees the Committees practice to undertake a detailed review of potential advisors every three to four years.
Continue to monitor political and regulatory developments including the UK Government and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC PwC is a signatory to the voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to proposals on corporate governance, including developments remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC also provides professional relating to the CEO pay ratio.
Where applicable, review the services in the ordinary course of business including assurance, remuneration policies to ensure they are consistent with effective advisory and tax advice to the Group.
The Committee considered risk management and the prevailing regulatory requirements PwCs role as an advisor to the Group, and determined that there was no con ict or potential con ict arising.
The Committee is satis ed that Review implementation of the Fair Pay Charter and monitor the advice the Committee receives is objective and independent.
The compliance with the principles total fee paid to PwC on an agreed per diem fee basis was 218,933, Monitor market trends to ensure the Groups remuneration which includes advice to the Committee relating to executive directors remains competitive, whilst robustly managing overall costs remuneration and regulatory matters.
Managements advice to the and improving productivity Committee was also supported by the provision of market data from PwC included in the above fee and Willis Towers Watson.
Continue to assess the alignment between Group incentives and the delivery of the strategy The Group Chief Financial Of cer and Group Chief Risk Of cer provided the Committee with regular updates on finance and risk The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at www.
The Committee recognises and manages any con icts of interest when receiving views from executive directors or senior management on executive remuneration proposals and no Shareholder voting and shareholder engagement individual is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
1 The table below shows the votes cast at the Annual General Meeting AGM in May 2017 on remuneration-related matters.
The binding vote Summary of the themes identi ed in the 2017 Committee on the directors remuneration policy at the May 2016 AGM received a effectiveness review and agreed actions a for vote of 94 per cent.
As part of the effectiveness review for the entire Board and For Against Withheld committees, it was recognised that the Committee is operating effectively.
Suggestions to enhance its effectiveness further Advisory vote on the 2016 541,879,007 82,559,025 11,162,668 remuneration report 86.78% 13.22% included a request from non-Committee members to be provided with additional data on the activities of the Committee given that 1 Number of votes is equal to number of shares held remuneration is an area of external focus.
Throughout 2017, an update on the activities of the Committee has been provided to The 2016 remuneration report was well supported, with shareholders the Board following each meeting.
providing positive feedback on the proportion of variable remuneration subject to long-term performance conditions.
Positive feedback was It was also considered important that the Committee keep the provided on the focus on conduct, particularly with regard to eligibility Groups remuneration structure as simple as possible to ensure that for variable remuneration.
Taking shareholders views into account, it is well understood throughout the organisation.
During the year, the level of pension allowance for existing executive directors will be the Committee considered various matters relating to remuneration reviewed when the directors remuneration policy is next renewed.
design and structure to ensure that there is a clear and strong link The Committee noted feedback from shareholders on the RoE target between performance and remuneration.
range in the 2017-19 LTIP and considered this carefully in making decisions on 2018-20 awards.
Activities in the year 12 January 31 January 20 March 26 July 3 October 29 November Update on financial and risk performance and risk, control and conduct matters Fixed remuneration for executive directors and other senior management Variable remuneration for executive directors, other senior management and Material Risk Takers MRTs Annual and long-term incentive performance measures and targets Structure of remuneration for executive directors and the Management Team Group-wide discretionary incentives, performance and pay review including approach to risk adjustment Review data relating to offers for new senior employees, including xed and variable remuneration The Fair Pay Charter, review of Group remuneration policies, review of gender pay gap and equal pay analysis External feedback from shareholders and regulators, emerging regulatory and shareholder trends and AGM outcomes Review of Committees independent advisors and Committee Terms of Reference The Committee also dealt with certain less material matters on an ad hoc basis through email circulation.
Standard Chartered 86 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information 2017 directors remuneration Executive directors variable remuneration awarded in respect of 2017 audited At its meetings in November 2017 and January 2018, the Committee considered Group performance, the performance of each executive director and risk, control and conduct-related matters with input from risk and other control functions.
The Committee followed a three-step process for determining annual incentive awards.
Consider eligibility: The Committee considered each executive directors values, behaviour and conduct during 2017.
Each director had exhibited an appropriate level of conduct and was deemed to have met the gateway requirement to be eligible for an incentive.
Evaluate performance against the Groups scorecard: The Committee reviewed both financial performance and achievement against the Groups strategic priorities, as outlined at the start of the year in the 2017 annual incentive scorecard.
The Groups performance compares favourably to last year and the Committee noted that signi cant progress was made in financial returns and in executing the strategy to stabilise and reposition the Group.
The scorecard outcome was assessed at 66 per cent.
Performance Scorecard 4, 5 measures Weighting Target Assessment of achievement outcome 1 Total income 10.0% Threshold: $13.8 billion $14.3 billion 5% Mid-point of target range: $14.3 billion Maximum award: $14.8 billion 1 Operating pro t 10.0% Threshold: $1.8 billion $3.0 billion 10% Mid-point of target range: $2.4 billion Maximum award: $3.0 billion RoE plus CET1 20.0% Threshold: 1% RoE of 3.5% 20% 2 underpin Mid-point of target range: 2% CET1 of 13.6% Maximum award: 3% Improve customer 10.0% Threshold: $153 billion $163.5 billion 5% 3 deposits Mid-point of target range: $161 billion Maximum award: $169 billion Strengthen 10.0% Improve quality of loan book, evidenced by a Loan impairments halved compared to the 2016 level 6% foundations in risk decrease in the non-performing loan NPL and overall gross NPLs have reduced demonstrating and control ow rate improved quality of loan book, exceeding targets set Successfully execute the Groups financial crime Satisfactory progress made on the Groups financial risk remediation programmes crime risk remediation programmes as targeted Focus on clients 12.5% Grow Private Banking Net New Money and Private Banking Net New Money and Wealth 4% and growth, and Wealth Management Assets under Management Assets under Management has drive cross-bank Management shown growth, but slightly below targets collaboration Improve client satisfaction rating Client satisfaction improved overall as targeted, with targets exceeded across Commercial and Grow Commercial Banking and Corporate & Private Banking client segments Institutional Banking client bases, and increase the proportion of Priority clients in Retail Banking Target growth achieved in Commercial Banking and Retail Banking client bases.
Corporate & Institutional Banking improved, but behind targeted growth Improve ef ciency, 10.0% Achieve cost-ef ciency target Cost ef ciencies of $0.8 billion, ahead of target 6% productivity and Achieve income return on risk-weighted Target performance of over 5% achieved on income service quality assets target return on risk-weighted assets Improve client on-boarding turnaround time Achieved targets for client on-boarding turnaround time across the Group Embed innovation, 7.5% Increase Corporate & Institutional Banking sales Improved sales via e-platform in Corporate & Institutional 4% digitisation and via e-platforms Banking by 16.5%, but slightly behind target of 19.8% analytics Increase digital penetration as evidenced by Retail Banking and Commercial Banking online and increased online mobile adoption of Retail mobile technology adoption were on target Banking and Commercial Banking clients Scoped 20 exploratory projects in emerging Drive innovation through new products, technologies, with five moving into production, solutions and services for clients in line with target Invest in people, 10.0% Improve diversity as a percentage of the Below target progress measured against diversity 6% strengthen culture management population objectives for 2017 and conduct Measurable progress in developing a Successfully developed culture and conduct uni ed conduct and culture programme programmes Improve employee net promoter score Exceeded targeted improvement in employee net promoter score Total 100% 66% 1 Total income and operating pro t were based on an underlying basis.
Income, costs and impairment and resulting operating pro t relating to identi able business units, products or portfolios from the date that have been approved for restructuring, disposal, wind down or redundancy as a consequence of the Strategy Review announced 3 November 2015 are presented as restructuring and excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
This includes realised and unrealised gains and losses from managements decisions to dispose of assets as well as residual income, direct costs and impairment of related legacy assets of those identi able business units, products or portfolios.
See note 2 page 211 2 RoE was based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for pro ts or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 12 per cent or the regulatory minuimum.
Unaudited 3 Retail current and savings accounts and net Transaction Banking Operating Accounts 4 A maximum minimum performance threshold was set for each performance measure.
The Committee used its judgement to determine scorecard outcomes within this range with a higher than 50 per cent outcome for performance above target and lower than 50 per cent outcome for below target performance 5 Strategic targets are aligned to internal scorecards measuring in-year progress on multi-year initiatives.
Unaudited 87 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report 3.
Assess personal performance and nalise awards: As outlined in the policy, the Committee has the ability to make an upwards or downwards adjustment to the scorecard outcome for personal performance, consistent with the approach for employees participating in the Group Total Variable Compensation plan.
When considering whether such an adjustment is appropriate, the Committee considers the particular areas of responsibility of the executive director together with the speci c objectives that they were asked to prioritise for the year and their personal contribution to the scorecard outcome.
The adjustment will usually be in the range of - 10 percentage points to the scorecard outcome.
The Committee assessed Bill as having outstanding personal performance during 2017 against his objectives and in role modelling the values and behaviour expected by the Board see details in the table below.
Through his leadership the Group has further secured the foundations with signi cantly improved financial performance and progress on the Groups strategic priorities.
Taking this into account alongside the scorecard outcome, the Committee considered an adjustment of 10 percentage points to be appropriate and decided to award an annual incentive of 76 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
This equates to 61 per cent of xed remuneration.
Key objectives Achievement The Committee considered Bill as having role modelled the values and behaviour expected by the Board, Lead by example and role model setting a strong tone from the top, which has been critical in setting the right culture across the organisation the Groups values and behaviour to deliver against the financial and strategic objectives for 2017 This was supported by feedback from members of the Board, the Management Team and colleagues across the Group which shows that Bill is seen as trusted, open, empowering and inspiring Bill was actively involved in driving the culture refresh during 2017, including the launch of the new purpose Deliver culture refresh and refresh of the Groups valued behaviours The Board considered this an outstanding achievement, primarily delivered as a result of Bills personal contribution Deliver improved operational The Committee considered that Bill made signi cant progress on improving operational excellence, delivering excellence agreed plans to simplify decision making, improve accountability and client centricity in internal processes Delivered agreed targets, with the structured and focused approach personally driven by Bill Strengthen and execute succession and development Succession plans in place for top two tiers of management and development plans being executed plans for the Group New leadership development programmes designed and 750 leaders enrolled for the first phase in 2018 Improvements made to the ef ciency of the Management Team in line with agreed objectives, assessed based on feedback from the members of the Board who consider that Bill has built a strong team The Committee considered Bill to have delivered against this objective based on feedback received and the Maintain effective and constructive progress achieved on relevant regulatory matters working relationships with our regulators and their representative bodies The Committee assessed Andy as having excellent personal performance as measured against his objectives and in demonstrating the values and behaviour expected by the Board see details in the table below.
His energy and focus have driven a number of operational ef ciencies which have positively impacted results.
Key objectives Achievement The Committee considered Andy to have demonstrated high standards of values and behaviour, which has Lead by example and role model supported the culture refresh across the organisation and made a signi cant contribution to the quality of the Groups values and behaviour Board and the Management Team discussions and decision making Deliver business ef ciency and Andys contribution has resulted in the 2017 business ef ciency targets being exceeded agreed Finance programmes He has made an excellent contribution to delivering IFRS 9, BCBS 239 and third-party risk management improvement programmes As a result of his leadership, the internal Finance Transformation plan has been agreed, the funding has been approved and 2017 milestones have been met Andy and his team have improved internal management information and analytics to support the driving of business performance, and the corporate planning process has also improved Deliver agreed Treasury, Corporate Andy integrated the Groups balance sheet, liquidity and capital management activities within one Treasury Development, Group Strategy and function.
Treasury income was higher year-on-year, whilst the quality and mix of the Groups liabilities has continued to improve.
The Groups capital and liquidity positions remained strong with all metrics above Property business plans for 2017 regulatory thresholds, and recovery and resolution planning requirements were met The Group and business strategy plans were delivered in line with the targets set and corporate development plans were executed effectively The revised property plans were delivered, including reducing the vacancy rate to less than 10% and workplace employee experience enhancements were implemented Andy has built a strong talent pipeline in 2017 and is successfully developing future leadership within the Group Strengthen and execute succession and development He delivered agreed people targets, with succession plans in place across the top two tiers of management plans for functions in his portfolio for functions within his portfolio The Committee considered Andy to have delivered against this objective based on feedback received and Maintain effective and constructive progress on relevant regulatory matters working relationships with our regulators and their representative bodies Standard Chartered 88 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Long-term incentive plan awards to be granted in March 2018 was to review the financial plan and the Groups strategic priorities.
It also balanced the Groups current financial position and the market LTIP awards for the 2017 performance year will be granted to Bill environment and outlook with ensuring the executive directors are Winters and Andy Halford in 2018 with a value of 120 per cent of xed incentivised in a challenging yet realistic manner.
remuneration 3.3 million and 2.1 million respectively.
Recent changes to remuneration regulations for banks mean that dividend The criteria used to select the comparator group for the calculation equivalent shares are not permitted to be awarded on vesting.
The of the relative TSR performance measure are companies with number of shares awarded in respect of the LTIP will take into account generally comparable business activities, size or geographic spread to the lack of dividend equivalents calculated by reference to market Standard Chartered or companies the Group competes against for consensus dividend yield such that the overall value of the award is investor funds and talent.
In aggregate, the comparator group is maintained.
These awards will vest in five annual tranches beginning intended to be representative of the Groups geographic presence after the third anniversary of the grant, i. e. March 2021 to March 2025 and business operations.
The constituents of the comparator group subject to meeting the performance measures set out below at shall continue to be reviewed annually, prior to each new LTIP grant.
All vested shares are subject to a 12-month During the 2017 review ANZ was replaced with BNP Paribas as the retention period.
latter was deemed to be a more appropriate comparator.
The equal weighting of the measures provides a balanced TSR is measured in sterling for each company and the TSR data performance assessment, giving an appropriate focus on execution of averaged over a month at the start and end of the three-year the strategy, investor returns and prudent risk-taking.
The Committees measurement period starting from the date of grant.
starting point for determining performance measures and target levels Performance measures for the 2018-20 executive director long-term incentive plan Conduct gateway requirement to be met in order for awards to vest Appropriate level of individual values and conduct exhibited Amount vesting as a % of total Threshold performance Maximum performance Measure Weighting award target target 1,2 1.
RoE in 2020 plus CET1 underpin One-third Maximum 33.3% 6% 9% of the higher of 12% or the minimum Threshold 8.3% regulatory requirement Below threshold 0% 3 2.
Relative TSR against peer group One-third Maximum 33.3% Median Upper quartile Threshold 8.3% Below threshold 0% 3.
Strategic measures One-third Maximum 33.3% Maintain effective and sustainable anti-money laundering AML and sanctions controls Minimum 0% a Strengthen foundations in risk Successfully deliver cyber risk management plan Performance against each and control component of the scorecard Improve client satisfaction rating b Focus on clients and growth, and will be assessed by the Deliver client growth in target segments drive cross-bank collaboration Committee using proof points Improve productivity to determine the percentage c Improve ef ciency, productivity, Deliver growth in digital volumes of the award that may vest and service quality Drive innovation through new products, solutions and services for clients d Embed innovation, digitisation, and analytics Improve scores against employee engagement and culture of inclusion metrics e Invest in people, strengthen culture Improve management diversity and conduct 1 RoE will be based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a 3 Relative TSR is measured against a comparator group.
If the Groups TSR performance tax-effected basis, for any fair value changes relating to gains losses on disposals, is at least equivalent to the median ranked company then 8.3 per cent of the award exceptional transactions and restructuring gains and losses, expenses, impairments vests.
If the Groups performance is at least equal to the upper quartile ranked that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the company then 33.3 per cent of the award vests.
Between these points, the Groups period.
Normalised RoE normally excludes regulatory fines but, for remuneration TSR is compared to that of the comparators positioned immediately above and below purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee it and straight-line vesting applies for TSR performance between these set points 2 If RoE reaches 6 per cent, then 8.3 per cent of the award vests.
If RoE reaches 9 per cent then 33.3 per cent of the award vests.
If RoE is between the threshold and maximum, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis between these two points The comparator group for the TSR measure in the 2018-20 LTIP is set out below: Banco Santander Barclays DBS Group ICICI Socit Gnrale United Overseas Bank Bank of America BNP Paribas Deutsche Bank JPMorgan Chase Standard Bank Bank of China Citigroup HSBC KB Financial Group State Bank of India Bank of East Asia Credit Suisse ICBC Oversea Chinese UBS Banking Corporation 89 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Performance outcomes for the 2015-17 long-term incentive plan awards Assessment of the 2015-17 LTIP award: zero vesting Performance for Performance for maximum Measure Weighting minimum vesting 25% vesting 100% 2015-17 LTIP outcome Relative TSR performance against One-third Median Equal to or above fifth Positioned below the median ranked rm comparator group therefore 0% vested Earnings per share EPS growth One-third 15% 35% Negative EPS growth therefore 0% vested Return on risk-weighted assets One-third 1.2% 1.4% 0.17% therefore 0% vested three-year average Assessment of the 2015-17 underpin share award: zero vesting Measure Weighting Performance for vesting 100% 2015-17 underpin shares outcome EPS growth One-half 10% Negative EPS growth therefore 0% vested Return on risk-weighted assets One-half 1.1% 0.17% therefore 0% vested three-year average Single total gure of remuneration for the executive directors audited This table sets out salary, xed pay allowances FPA, bene ts and pensions received in 2017, annual incentives receivable in respect of 2017 and LTIP awards vesting based on performance periods ending in 2017.
W T Winters A N Halford 2017 2016 2017 2016 Salary 1,150 1,150 850 850 Fixed pay allowances 1,150 1,150 519 519 Pension 460 460 340 340 Bene ts 245 135 109 111 Annual incentive award 1,678 497 1,039 308 Vesting of LTIP awards 0 Total 000s 4,683 3,392 2,857 2,128 Under the terms of his contract and the directors remuneration policy, Bill Winters is entitled to the use of a car and driver and support with the preparation of his annual tax returns, alongside the other bene ts stated below.
The material increase in Bill Winters bene ts year-on-year is due to the inclusion of the full year bene t of the car and driver and his 2015 16 tax return preparation fees in the 2017 gure.
Bill Winters joined the Group on 1 May 2015 so his 2016 bene ts gure included part-year use of a car and driver during the 2015 16 tax year and no tax return preparation fees these fees are a taxable bene t in the tax year following the preparation of the returns.
The year-on-year change in the annual incentive gures is in part due to the change to the mix of incentives as set out in the policy.
The annual incentive opportunity in 2017 was 80 per cent of xed remuneration, compared to 40 per cent in 2016.
The remainder of the increase was due to the improvement in the Groups performance and the executive directors personal performance.
Additional information on the elements of remuneration in the single total gure table audited FPAs are paid in shares, subject to a retention period and released over five years.
The number of shares allocated is determined by the monetary value of the allowance and the prevailing market price of the Groups shares on the date of allocation.
FPAs are not variable remuneration Executive directors receive bene ts, such as private medical cover, life assurance, permanent health insurance, a cash bene ts allowance and the use of a company vehicle and driver for business purposes.
Executive directors occasionally use a Group car service for travelling and their partners may travel to attend Board or other similar events.
The Group covers any tax liability that arises on these bene ts.
The 2017 bene ts gures shown are in respect of the 2016 17 tax year.
This is consistent with the reporting of similar bene ts in previous years Executive directors annual incentive awards in respect of 2017 will be delivered 50 per cent in cash paid in March and 50 per cent paid in shares subject to a minimum 12-month retention period.
The detail of how directors annual incentive awards are determined is set out on pages 87 to 88.
Any award will be subject to malus and clawback for up to 10 years The LTIP awards granted in March 2015 are due to vest in March 2018, based on performance over the years 2015 to 2017.
Performance measures were not met and so the awards will lapse for Andy Halford.
Bill Winters did not participate in the March 2015 LTIP Standard Chartered 90 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Group performance versus the Group Chief Executives remuneration The graph below shows the Groups TSR performance on a cumulative basis over the past nine years alongside that of the FTSE 100 and peer banks, and the table below shows the historical levels of remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
The FTSE 100 provides a broad comparison group against which shareholders may measure their relative returns.
Total Shareholder Returns since 2008 300 Standard Chartered FTSE 100 Comparator median 250 200 150 100 50 0 Jan 2009 Jan 2010 Jan 2011 Jan 2012 Jan 2013 Jan 2014 Jan 2015 Jan 2016 Jan 2017 Jan 2018 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Single gure of total remuneration 000 P A Sands CEO until 10 June 2015 7,135 7,970 7,779 6,951 4,378 3,093 1,290 1 W T Winters appointed CEO on 10 June 2015 8,399 3,392 4,683 Annual incentive as a percentage of maximum opportunity P A Sands 64% 70% 70% 63% 50% 0% 0% W T Winters 0% 45% 76% Vesting of LTIP awards as a percentage of maximum P A Sands 81% 90% 90% 77% 33% 10% 0% 0% W T Winters 1 Bill Winters single gure of total remuneration in 2015 includes his buy-out award of 6.5 million to compensate for the forfeiture of share interests on joining from his previous employment 91 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report 2018 policy implementation for directors The Committee reviews the salaries of the executive directors on an annual basis, taking into account increases made across the Group, changes to the scope or responsibility of the role, the individuals development in the role, and alignment to market-competitive levels.
For 2018, the Committee determined that there should be no changes to the xed remuneration of Bill Winters.
The Committee determined that a salary increase from 850,000 to 890,000 with effect from 1 April 2018 an increase of just under 5 per cent for Andy Halford was appropriate.
No change was made to his FPA, pension or bene t entitlement.
In aggregate, his xed remuneration increased by 3 per cent as a result of this change.
In making the decision, the Committee noted that Andy Halfords xed remuneration was below that of some of his global peers, that he had not received a salary increase since his appointment in June 2014 and his development in role since that time.
The Committee also took into account the average salary increase made to the broader employee population since 2014 which was, on average, 4 per cent each year.
2018 annual incentive scorecard The measures in the scorecard have been determined to align with the Groups strategy.
The targets are set annually by the Committee and take into account the Groups annual financial plan and its priorities for the next few years within the context of the economic environment.
The Committee considers such targets to be commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Group to disclose them before the end of the financial year.
Targets will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts alongside the actual level of performance achieved.
The Committee will review the scorecard annually and may vary the measures, weightings and targets each year.
Financial measures make up 50 per cent of the annual incentive scorecard.
Some of the strategic measures are also financial in nature, and all strategic measures are monitored by the Committee using a quantitative and qualitative framework.
STEP 1: Conduct gateway requirement to be met in order to be eligible for any annual incentive Appropriate level of individual values and conduct exhibited during the course of the year STEP 2: Measurement of performance against financial and other strategic measures Financial measures Weighting Target 1 Total income 10% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 1 Operating pro t 10% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 2 3 RoE plus CET1 underpin of the higher of 12% 20% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively or the minimum regulatory requirement 4 Funding optimisation 10% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 5 Other strategic measures Weighting Target Strengthen foundations in risk and control 10% Improve credit quality Maintain effective and sustainable AML and sanctions controls Successfully deliver cyber risk management plan milestones Focus on clients and growth, and drive cross- 10% Improve client satisfaction rating bank collaboration Deliver client growth in target segments Increase segmental collaboration Improve ef ciency, productivity and service quality 10% Achieve gross cost savings and cost-to-income ratio targets Improve productivity Improve client on-boarding turnaround time Embed innovation, digitisation and analytics 10% Deliver growth in digital volumes Drive innovation through new products, solutions and services to clients Invest in people, strengthen culture and conduct 10% Improve management diversity Improve scores against employee engagement and culture of inclusion metrics STEP 3: Assessment of personal performance The Committee reviews the individual performance of each executive director in their areas of personal responsibility.
Consistent with the Groups treatment of all employees, the Committee can make a positive adjustment to the annual incentive if the executive directors performance is considered strong and is not fully re ected in the scorecard outcome and vice versa, if appropriate.
The Committee will generally consider personal performance adjustments in the range of up to - 10 percentage points on the scorecard outcome.
1 Income, costs and impairment and resulting operating pro t relating to identi able business units, products or portfolios from the date that have been approved for restructuring, disposal, wind down or redundancy as a consequence of the Strategy Review announced 3 November 2015 are presented as restructuring and excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
This includes realised and unrealised gains and losses from managements decisions to dispose of assets as well as residual income, direct costs and impairment of related legacy assets of those identi able business units, products or portfolios 2 RoE will be based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for pro ts or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
RoE would normally exclude regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee 3 The CET1 underpin will be dynamically set at the higher of 12% and the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2018 taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period 4 Initiative that targets an ef cient level and mix of funding liabilities to support the Groups growth aspirations.
Measured in basis points reduction in funding costs relative to a normalised benchmark, which excludes the impact of interest rate movement, but requires a minimum level of growth in quality funding 5 Aligned to internal scorecards measuring in-year progress on multi-year initiatives Standard Chartered 92 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Group-wide remuneration in 2017 Determining 2017 discretionary incentives The Committee determined that total discretionary incentives in 2017 should be $1,146 million.
This represents an increase of 10 per cent In determining 2017 incentives, the Committee considered: on 2016.
The Committee concluded that any lower amount would 2017 performance measured using the balanced scorecard, present a material risk to the ability of the Group to make appropriate ensuring that risk-taking did not exceed the Groups risk appetite and competitive awards.
$183 million will be deferred in cash and shares and delivered over the next seven years as shown in the That the historical remuneration levels of the Group have income statement charge table on page 98.
The total incentives generally been below competitive levels in the markets in which of the Group are 5 per cent lower than in 2013. it operates and that this position deteriorated further over the period from 2012-2014.
This has in part resulted in a high level The total incentives gure for 2017 includes i the 2018-20 LTIP of voluntary attrition awards, the value of which will be determined by Group performance over the period 2018 to 2020 and ii incentive awards made to The need to reposition remuneration in the Group to contribute to individuals who left the Group during 2017 as part of restructuring, improving shareholder returns, whilst enabling the Group to pay who were in service for at least nine months of the year.
good performers competitively Incentives trend 2013 to 2017 The Groups capital position and the risk, control and conduct environment and speci c risk, control and conduct events 2017 $1,146m In determining the Groups total incentives, the Committee has used its judgement to establish the right balance between the performance 2016 $1,039m of the Group and its ability to attract and retain talent that will drive 2015 $993m the Groups strategy.
In 2017, the Committee took into account 2014 $1,098m Group, business and regional scorecards which were aligned to the Groups strategy, a range of risk-adjusted metrics and advice from 2013 $1,208m both the Group Chief Financial Of cer and Group Chief Risk Of cer on performance.
Allocation of the Groups earnings between stakeholders When considering Group variable remuneration, the Committee considers shareholders concerns about relative expenditure on pay and makes the determination on the allocation of earnings to expenditure on remuneration carefully.
The Committee concluded that the Group has approached this allocation in a disciplined way over the past five years.
The table below shows the distribution of earnings between stakeholders.
The amount of corporate tax, including the bank levy, is included in the table because it is a signi cant payment and illustrates the Groups contribution through the tax system.
See note 7 page 217 for more detail The relationship between the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive and all employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between the 2016 and 2017 performance years for the Group Chief Executive and the wider employee population.
The 238 per cent increase in the Group Chief Executives annual incentive was due to the change in maximum annual incentive opportunity 80 per cent of xed remuneration in 2017, compared to 40 per cent in 2016 and improved performance.
The LTIP opportunity was reduced from 160 per cent of xed remuneration in 2016 to 120 per cent in 2017.
In total the Committee awarded incentives of 181 per cent of xed remuneration to the Group Chief Executive for 2017, compared to 178 per cent for 2016.
1 Remuneration element CEO % change All employees % change Salaries 0% 7% 2 Taxable bene ts 82% 4% Annual incentive 238% 10% 1 For the all employees group, the salary comparison is based on the global employee population.
The taxable bene ts comparison is based on UK employees as it was deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given the varied requirements in the provision and tax treatment of bene ts across different jurisdictions.
The annual incentive data is based on the global employee population who are eligible to receive discretionary annual incentives 2 The material increase in Bill Winters bene ts year-on-year is due to the inclusion of the full year bene t of the car and driver and his 2015 16 tax return preparation fees in the 2017 gure.
Further details are on page 90 The regulations for calculating the ratio between the Chief Executive and average employee remuneration are yet to be nalised.
Using a provisional fide nition of the median average of UK employee remuneration and the Group Chief Executive single gure of total remuneration, the 2017 ratio is approximately 47:1.
There is no LTIP award vesting to the Group Chief Executive.
In a year with a vesting LTIP, the ratio would be higher.
The final methodology for calculating the CEO pay ratio is expected to be con rmed by the UK Government in 2018.
The CEO pay ratio disclosure will be restated in line with the final requirements in next years Directors remuneration report.
93 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Remuneration approach for all employees Employees typically receive salary, pension and other bene ts and are eligible to be considered for variable remuneration determined based on both business and individual performance.
Further information on the remuneration approach for different employees is provided in the table below.
There may be some country variations based on statutory requirements and market practice.
Comparison between different groups Element Operation of employees Salaries re ect individuals skills and experience and are reviewed Executive directors: Yes Salary annually against market information and in the context of the annual Material risk takers: Yes performance assessment and affordability Other employees: Yes Increases may occur where there is a role change, increased responsibility or to ensure market competitiveness Paid in shares.
In line with the approved remuneration policy, provided Executive directors: Yes Fixed pay allowance for a market competitive level of xed remuneration.
They are capped at Material risk takers: No FPA one times salary and released over five years Other employees: No Bene ts are provided, with the details depending on local market Executive directors: Yes Pension practice.
Employees have access to country-speci c, company-funded Material risk takers: Yes and bene ts bene ts such as pension schemes, private medical insurance, Other employees: Yes permanent health insurance, life insurance and cash allowances.
The cost of providing the bene ts is fide ned and controlled Pension and bene t levels differ globally to be competitive in different markets, and there is no single pension level across the Group Employees who are relocated or spend a substantial portion of their time in more than one jurisdiction for business purposes may be provided with mobility bene ts.
If employees incur tax charges when travelling overseas in performance of their duties, these costs may be met by the Group Sharesave is an all-employee plan where participants are able to open a savings contract to fund the exercise of an option over shares.
The option price is set at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the share price at the date of invitation or such other discount as may be determined by the Committee.
An equivalent cash or share plan is offered in countries where Sharesave may not be offered typically due to tax, regulatory or securities law issues Employees are typically eligible to be considered for variable Executive directors: Yes, Discretionary variable remuneration determined based on Group, business and individual annual incentive cash and remuneration performance shares and LTIP award Individual incentives are linked to the Group scorecard, the individuals Material risk takers: Yes, business area scorecard and individual performance annual incentives paid in cash up to certain limits and the Discretionary variable remuneration is delivered in the form of an balance is deferred in shares annual incentive and or an LTIP award depending on the category and or cash for between three of Group employee and seven years and or LTIP Annual incentives are delivered in the form of cash, shares and or award.
At least 50 per cent deferred shares and deferred cash of discretionary variable LTIP awards are delivered in shares and subject to long-term remuneration is delivered in performance measures shares.
Material risk takers are The variable remuneration of employees in the Audit, Risk and subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio Compliance functions is set independently of the business they oversee of variable to xed remuneration.
Last year the Group implemented changes to the operation of Other employees: Yes, most discretionary incentives.
The changes have increased transparency employees are considered for and the link between achievement and demonstration of expected an annual incentive paid in cash values and behaviour, and the level of incentives up to certain limits and the balance is deferred over three years in shares and or cash and or LTIP award When determining levels of variable remuneration, the Group considers the overall level of performance and risk events in the year.
The proportion of variable to xed remuneration is carefully monitored to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.
All incentives are subject to the Groups ex-post risk adjustment of remuneration policy.
This provides the Group with the ability to reduce or revoke variable remuneration in respect of a risk, control or conduct issue, event or behaviour.
Given senior management incentives are deferred for up to seven years, the Group does not believe that the incentive structures inadvertently motivate irresponsible or short-term behaviour.
For more detail on the Groups approach to risk-adjustment see page 100.
