Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy How employees pay is taken Introduction into account The committee is responsible for the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive Pay and conditions elsewhere in the directors and the Company Secretary.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of group were considered when finalising the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The committee the policy for executive directors and the also reviews the remuneration of the senior management teams within the three senior management teams.
The same divisions and the corporate office.
principles apply throughout the group but are proportionate relative to an individuals The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration influence at group level.
The base salary of the other executive directors and the senior management teams.
The Chairman increases awarded to the executive directors is consulted on proposals relating to the Chief Executive Officers remuneration.
are consistent with the average percentage When appropriate, both are invited by the committee to attend meetings but are not increases awarded elsewhere in the group present when their own remuneration is considered.
and reflect the strong financial performance of the group and each individual directors The committee recognises and manages any conflict of interest when consulting the personal performance.
The committee does Chief Executive Officer and Chairman about its proposals.
not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic The directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM on updates from the divisions on remuneration 12 May 2017, and no changes to the approved policy are proposed at the 2018 AGM.
issues in general and specifically in relation to remuneration structures throughout the group.
Considerations when settingpolicy How the executive directors remuneration policy relates to In setting the remuneration policy for the the senior management teams executive directors and senior management, the committee takes into account the following: Remuneration for the level below executive director including share 1.
The need to maintain a clear link between incentives, bonus, benefits and pension the overall reward policy and the specific entitlement is set primarily by reference to performance of the group: market comparatives.
The need to achieve alignment to the Long-term incentives are typically only business strategy both in the shortand provided to the most senior executives and long-term: are reserved for those identified as having 3.
The requirement for remuneration the greatest potential to influence group to be competitive, with a significant level performance.
proportion dependent on risk-assessed performance targets: How shareholders views aretaken into account 4.
The responsibilities of each individuals role and their individual experience and performance: We remain committed to taking into account shareholder views on any proposed changes 5.
The need to attract, retain and to our remuneration policy.
The committee motivate executive directors and senior chairman maintains contact, as required, management when determining benefit with the companys principal shareholders packages, including an appropriate about all relevant remuneration issues and proportion of fixed and variable pay: the company consulted with its principal 6.
Pay and benefits practice and shareholders, as well as the shareholder employment conditions both within the advisory bodies, in relation to the renewal group as a whole and within the sector in of its remuneration policy.
Ongoing and which it operates: and transparent dialogue with our shareholders on the topic of executive remuneration 7.
Periodic external comparisons to examine is very important to us and the feedback current market trends and practices received on the proposed remuneration and equivalent roles in companies of policy was carefully considered and similar size, business complexity and discussed by the committee.
120 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Executive director remuneration policy Purpose and Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element link to strategy maximum levels for recovery ofsums paid Salary To reflect the responsibilities of Reviewed annually and effective from Broad assessment of group and individual performance as part of the the individual role.
To reflect the individuals skills Typically set following review of the Malus and clawback provisions do not apply.
and experience and their budget for the forthcoming year, taking performance over time.
into account salary levels in companies of a similar size and complexity.
To provide an appropriate level of basic fixed income and avoid Typically targeted at or around median.
excessive risk taking arising Annual increases typically linked to those from over reliance on variable of the wider workforce.
those granted to the wider workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the group.
Annual Incentivises annual delivery Financial and operational goals set annually.
A minimum of 50% of any bonus opportunity will be subject to financial bonus ofagreed financial and targets eg EPS with up to 20% linked to personal objectives.
Maximum opportunity of 120% of salary operational goals.
for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% In relation to the EPS element, a graduated scale operates from threshold Rewards the achievement of an of salary for the group Finance Director performance through to the maximum performance level of 105% of agreed set of annual financial and any other executive director.
In relation to financial targets, none of and operational goals.
this part of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold One-third of the bonus is subject to performance target with a graduated scale operating thereafter for compulsory waiver in which case an award higher levels of financial performance.
In relation to personal objectives, is made under the PSP.
itis not always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective.
Where it is, a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for exceeding the Executive directors may waive up to an threshold performance level as for financial targets.
Malus and clawback provisions apply where there is a material prior Any award granted following waiver of period error requiring restatement of the group financial statements or bonus will be eligible for Matching Awards an error in the calculation of the extent to which the bonus targets are under the PSP.
The period of clawback is three years from the date of payment.
Remainder of bonus paid in cash.
Details of the bonus measures operating each year will be included in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
The committee reserves the power to make changes over the life of the policy to achieve alignment with the groups annual strategy.
Changes to practice from 2018 As discussed elsewhere in the report, whilst maintaining the DRP limits described above, a new, more balanced scorecard of metrics, including financial, customer, risk and strategic indicators will be applied.
These will give a more rounded view of performance, and alignment with company strategy going forward.
As detailed earlier in the report, the malus and clawback provisions in the plan rules have been further strengthened.
121 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Executive director remuneration policy continued Purpose and Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element link to strategy maximum levels for recovery ofsums paid Performance Alignment of managements Invitations to participate and awards The Basic Awards are subject to certain forfeiture conditions over Share Plan long-term strategic interests madeannually.
The Matching Awards vest PSP with long-term interests of based on a three-year performance period against a challenging Opportunity to waive up to two-thirds of shareholders.
range of EPS growth targets set and assessed by the committee.
annual bonus and receive a Basic Award 25% of the Matching Award half of one matching share vests at Encourages an increased together with a Matching Award.
the threshold performance level with full vesting two matching shareholding in the group.
shares, taking place on a graduated scale for achieving the Executive directors eligible for a Matching maximum performance level.
The performance condition is Award of up to two times based on a waiver reviewed annually by the committee prior to grant in terms of the of up to two-thirds of annual bonus with range of targets and the choice of metric and may be refined to a minimum compulsory waiver of one-third.
ensure that the condition remains aligned with the groups strategy Maximum bonus being earned and a and key performance indicators KPIs.
Any substantive reworking maximum bonus waiver, results in a of the current performance condition would be accompanied by maximum benefit of 160% of salary in the appropriate dialogue with the groups shareholders and or approval case of the Chief Executive Officer and sought for a revised remuneration policy depending on the nature 133% of salary in the case of the group of the change.
Dividends may also be Malus and clawback provisions apply where there is a material payable on Basic Awards and in addition, prior period error requiring restatement of the group financial dividend equivalent provisions allow the statements or an error in the calculation of the extent to which the committee to pay dividends on vested performance target is achieved.
The period of clawback is three Matching Awards at the time of vesting.
years from the date of vesting.
Changes to practice from 2018 With effect from 1 January 2018, there will be no further Matching Awards granted.
There will however continue to be a requirement for a portion of the annual bonus to be waived in return for a Basic Award of shares equal to the value of the waived bonus under the PSP, but withno Matching Award.
Long Term Alignment of managements Annual grant of share awards structured Awards vest based on a three-year performance period against Incentive long-term strategic interests as conditional share awards or nil-cost a challenging range of EPS and TSR targets set and assessed by the Scheme with long-term interests of options.
20% of the award vests at the threshold performance LTIS shareholders.
level with full vesting taking place on a graduated scale for achieving Executive directors are eligible for awards the maximum performance level.
The performance targets are Rewards strong financial of up to 200% of salary which is the reviewed annually by the committee prior to grant in terms of the performance and sustained maximum opportunity contained within range of targets and the choice of metrics and may be refined to increase in shareholder value.
ensure that the targets remain aligned with the groups strategy and KPIs.
Any substantive reworking of the current performance targets Encourages an increased Dividend equivalent provisions allow the would be accompanied by appropriate dialogue with the companys shareholding in the group.
committee to pay dividends on vested shareholders and or approval sought for a revised remuneration shares at the time of vesting.
policy depending on the nature of the change.
Shareholders approved the renewal Malus and clawback provisions apply where there is a material of the LTIS at the 2015 AGM.
prior period error requiring restatement of the group financial statements or an error in the calculation of the extent to which the performance targets are achieved.
The period of clawback is three years from the date of vesting.
Changes to practice from 2018 As discussed elsewhere in the report, whilst maintaining the DRP limits described above, and the performance and vesting period, the absolute TSR metric will be replaced by a relative TSR measure with effect from 2018.
With effect from 1 January 2018, all new awards to executive directors will also have a requirement to retain vested LTIS shares, net of tax, for a further period of two years.
As detailed earlier in the report, the malus and clawback provisions in the LTIS rules have been furtherstrengthened.
122 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Purpose and Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element link to strategy maximum levels for recovery ofsums paid Retirement Provision of a range of schemes Available pension arrangements include Not applicable.
benefits and arrangements to enable the cash balance section of the Provident executive directors to fund Financial Staff Pension Scheme, an theirretirement.
Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme, a cash supplement in lieu of pension and or a contribution to individual Self Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs.
Pension credit of up to 30% of salary per annum is given to all executive directors.
Changes to practice from 2018 With effect from 1 January 2018, the pension allowance for any new executive director appointments will be limited to the same level that applies to the wider groupworkforce.
Other Provision of a range of insured Benefits will be appropriate to an executive Not applicable.
benefits and non-insured benefits directors circumstances and include: commensurate with the role.
Life cover of six times salary subject to the provision of satisfactory medical evidence, a permanent health insurance benefit of 75% of basic salary after six months illness and membership of the groups private medical insurance scheme: Fully expensed company car or a cash equivalent: and Participation in any all-employee share plans operated by the company on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Share To ensure alignment of the Executive directors have been required to Not applicable.
ownership long-term interests of executive build and maintain a holding of 200% of directors and shareholders.
salary in the form of shares in the company since 1 January 2016.
Executive directors are required to retain half of any shares vesting net of tax under the LTIS until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares held under the PSP and LTIS are not taken into account.
The committee will operate the incentive schemes within the policy detailed above and in accordance with their respective rules.
In relation to the discretions included within the scheme rules, these include, but are not limited to: i who participates in the schemes: ii testing of the relevant performance targets: iii undertaking an annual review of performance targets and weightings: iv the determination of the treatment of leavers in line with the scheme rules: v adjustments to existing performance targets and or share awards under the incentive scheme if certain relevant events take place eg a capital restructuring, a material acquisition divestment etc with any such adjustments to result in the revised targets being no more or less challenging to achieve: and vi dealing with a change of control.
For the purposes of incentive pay, EPS is calculated on an adjusted basis to show the EPS generated by the groups underlying operations.
123 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Any incentive offered above these limits Choice of performance metrics Arrangements from prior years would be contingent on the company receiving shareholder approval for an All variable remuneration arrangements The performance metrics used for the annual amendment to the approved DRP at its previously disclosed in prior years bonus scheme, the LTIS and the PSP have next AGM.
directors remuneration reports will been selected to reflect the key indicators of remain eligible to vest or become Different performance measures may be the groups financial performance.
payable on their original terms and set initially for the annual bonus, taking into EPS continues to be considered by the vesting dates, subject to any related account the responsibilities of the individual committee as one of the broadest and most clawback provisions.
and the point in the financial year that they well understood measures of the groups join the company.
long-term financial performance and The above policy applies to both an internal therefore it remains appropriate to maintain Regulatory changes promotion to the Board or an external hire.
the option to use it as a key metric in our long-term incentive plans.
The committee is mindful that regulatory In the case of an external hire, if it is changes in the financial services sector Furthermore, EPS is fully aligned with the necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit may result in a need to rebalance the groups objective of continuing to deliver a arrangements which would be forfeited executive directors pay and, accordingly, high dividend yield and thus is aligned with on leaving a previous employer, then the the committee retains discretion to adjust the shareholder base which is weighted form cash or shares, timing and expected the current proportions of fixed and variable towards longer-term income investors.
value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing pay within the current total remuneration performance criteria of the remuneration In 2012, the link to RPI was removed from the package if new legislation were to impact or benefit being forfeited will be taken into performance targets for the LTIS and PSP the executive directors in due course.
The company will not pay any more following consideration by the committee Should this be the case, the company would than necessary and will not pay more than of various factors prevailing at the time.
enter into appropriate dialogue with its the expected value of the remuneration or This approach has been retained in relation major shareholders and, depending on the benefit being forfeited.
The approved DRP to awards under the PSP and the LTIS since nature of any changes, may be required to will apply to the balance of the remuneration 2012.
Performance targets will, however, be seek shareholder approval for a revised package.
The company will also not make a assessed annually when setting targets for remuneration policy.
future awards to take account of prevailing In the case of an internal promotion, any rates of inflation.
Policy for new directors outstanding variable pay awarded in relation In addition, TSR is used to provide an to the previous role will be allowed to pay Base salary levels will be set in accordance appropriate external balance to the internal out according to its terms of grant adjusted with the approved remuneration policy, EPS measure used under the LTIS and is as relevant to take into account the Board taking into account the experience and consistent with delivering superior returns to appointment, even if inconsistent with the calibre of the individual.
Benefits will also shareholders which remains the groups key, policy prevailing when the commitment beprovided in line with the approved DRP over-arching, long-term objective.
and relocation expenses arrangements From 2018, the committee plans to maybe provided if necessary.
On the appointment of a new chairman changethe performance condition from or non-executive director, the fees will be The maximum level of variable pay that absolute TSR to a more common relative set taking into account the experience and may be offered on an ongoing basis and TSRmetric, in relation to a suitable calibre of the individual.
Where specific the structure of remuneration will be comparator group for all new grants.
cash or share arrangements are delivered in accordance with the approved DRP.
Furthermore, the committee will introduce to non-executive directors, these will not This limit does not include the value of a post-vesting holding period of two years include share options or other performanceanybuyout arrangements.
toall new LTIS grants, and have enhanced related elements.
thewithholding malus and recovery clawback provisions currentlyin place.
No performance targets are set for options granted under the companys Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE or for awards under the companys Share Incentive Plan SIP as they form part of the all-employee arrangements which are designed to encourage employee share ownership across the group.
124 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report To the extent that an executive director Service contracts and Policy on other appointments seeks to bring a claim against the company exitpolicy in relation to the termination of their Executive directors are permitted to hold employment e. g. for breach of contract or non-executive directorships but may only The committee ensures that the contractual unfair dismissal, the committee retains the hold one non-executive directorship in a terms for the executive directors take due right to make an appropriate payment in FTSE 100 company and may retain the fees account of best practice.
from their appointment provided that the In the case of a termination by the company Board considers that this will not adversely Service contracts normally continue until of the contract of any new executive director affect their executive responsibilities.
thedirectors agreed retirement date or such who has been appointed where a payment in other date as the parties agree.
All service Copies of directors service contracts and or lieu of notice is made, the committee would contracts contain provisions for early letters of appointment are available from the normally seek to limit this to base salary, termination.
The contracts of the executive Company Secretary on request.
pension and benefits for up to 12 months.
directors are dated 1 February 2018 for the An amount in respect of loss of annual Chief Executive Officer and 1 January 2008 bonus for the period of notice served pro for the Finance Director.
All contracts operate rata would only be included in exceptional on a rolling basis with 12 months notice circumstances and would not apply in required to be served by either the executive circumstances of poor performance.
For the director or the company.
avoidance of doubt, in such exceptional An executive directors contract may be circumstances, the director would be eligible terminated without notice and without any to be considered in the normal way for an further payment or compensation, except for annual bonus for any period they have sums accrued up to the date of termination, served as a director, subject to the normal on the occurrence of certain events such as assessment by the committee of financial gross misconduct.
No director has a service and personal performance.
contract providing liquidated damages on termination.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director under the companys In the event of the termination of a service share incentive schemes will be determined contract, it is the current policy to seek by reference to the relevant scheme rules.
mitigation of loss by the executive director In the case of a bad leaver e. g. resignation concerned and to aim to ensure that any awards will typically lapse and in certain payment made is the minimum which is good leaver circumstances e. g. ill-health commensurate with the companys legal awards will remain eligible to vest subject obligations.
Payments in lieu of notice are to assessment of the relevant performance not pensionable.
target and a pro rata reduction unless the committee determines otherwise.
In the event of a change of control of the company, there is no enhancement to Any buyout arrangements agreed between contractual terms.
the company and the relevant directors would be treated in accordance with Notice periods are limited to 12 months.
the terms agreed on finalisation of the If the company terminates the employment buyout arrangement.
of an executive director without giving the period of notice required under the contract, then the executive director may be entitled to receive up to 12 months compensation.
Compensation is limited to: base salary due for any unexpired notice period: any amount assessed by the committee as representing the value of contractual benefits and pension which would have been received during the period: and any annual bonus which the executive director might otherwise have been eligible to receive on a pro rata basis, subject to the committees assessment of financial and personal performance.
125 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Non-executive directors Non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office.
They are appointed for fixed terms of three years, renewable for a further three-year term and, in exceptional circumstances, further extended if both parties agree.
Any such extension will be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
The table below shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive directors.
All directors will seek reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-executive director remuneration policy Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels Fees To attract and retain a high-calibre The Chairman and non-executive directors receive annual fees paid in monthly instalments.
The fee for the Chairman and non-executive directors Chairman is set by the remuneration committee and the fees for the non-executive directors are approved by offering market competitive fees by the Board.
which reflect the individuals skills, The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The other non-executive directors experience and responsibilities.
receive a basic non-executive director fee, with supplementary fees payable for additional responsibilities, including a fee for chairing a committee and, from 2017, for membership of the risk and audit committees but not if performing a chairman role.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive arrangements.
Relevant expenses and or benefits may be provided to the non-executive directors.
The fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to go above the current fee levels and or to provide the fees in a form other than cash but not as share options or other performance-related incentives if necessary to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive director of an appropriate calibre.
Terms of Appointment of the Non-executive directors Name Appointment Date of most recent term Expected & Actual date of expiry Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 30 March 2015 31 December 2018 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 31 October 2015 31 October 2018 Andrea Blance 1 March 2017 1 March 2017 31 March 2020 Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 1 January 2017 12 May 2017 1 David Sear 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 26 January 2018 John Straw 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 31 January 2020 1 David Sears term was expected to expire on 31 January 2020, prior to him stepping down from the Board on 26 January 2018.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office will only be made if consistent with this approved remuneration policy or otherwise approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders.
Andrea Blance Remuneration committee chairman 27 February 2018 126 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Financial statements Our results The group continues to operate a financial model that is founded on investing in customer-centric businesses that offer attractive returns.
Consolidated income statement 128 Consolidated statement of comprehensiveincome 128 Loss earnings per share 128 Dividends per share 128 Balance sheets 129 Statements of changes in shareholders equity 130 Statements of cash flows 132 Statement of accounting policies 133 Financial and capital risk management 140 Notes to the financial statements 146 Independent auditors report 187 127
