Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information any amendments, standards or interpretations that have been issued but are not yet mandatory.
Notes to the 2017 financial Further detail on the going concern basis of accounting is included on statements page 110.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial 1 Principal accounting policies statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The amendment to IAS 12: Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses, Corporate information which is mandatory for 2017, clarifies the accounting treatment for Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair resources.
Major products are aluminium, copper, diamonds, gold, value.
The Group already complied with this amendment.
An industrial minerals borates, titanium dioxide and salt, iron ore, amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initiative, thermal and metallurgical coal and uranium.
Activities span the world which is mandatory for 2017, requires entities to provide disclosures and are strongly represented in Australia and North America, with about changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including significant businesses also in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
changes from financing cash flows and non-cash changes such as Rio Tinto plc is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London and foreign exchange gains or losses.
The Group has expanded the net New York Stock Exchanges and Rio Tinto Limited is incorporated in debt reconciliation in note 24 to comply with this amendment.
Both of Australia and listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Rio Tinto plcs these amendments have been endorsed by the EU.
The clarification in registered office is at 6 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4AD, UK.
Rio Annual Improvements 2014 -2016 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests Tinto Limiteds registered office is at Level 7, 360 Collins Street, in other entities regarding the scope of the standard is not relevant Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, 3000. to the Group in 2017.
As described in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and Mandatory in 2018 basis of financial statements on page 117, for the purposes of The impact on the Groups net assets of transition to the accounting preparing the IFRS compliant consolidated financial statements of the pronouncements listed below which are mandatory in 2018 is Rio Tinto Group, both the DLC companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto currently expected to be immaterial: however, practice continues to Limited, are viewed as a single economic entity, and the interests of develop on application of these standards.
shareholders of both companies are presented as the equity interests of shareholders in the Rio Tinto Group.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in 2018 These financial statements consolidate the accounts of Rio Tinto plc The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective related to the transfer of promised goods or services when control of subsidiaries together the Group and include the Groups share of the goods or services passes to the customer.
The amount of revenue joint arrangements and associates as explained in note 1 b below.
recognised should reflect the consideration to which the entity The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
2017 were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 28 February 2018.
The Group has reviewed a representative sample of sales contracts at all of its businesses to identify potential changes in: timing of revenue Notes 33 to 36 provide more information on the Groups subsidiaries, recognition, measurement of the amount of revenue and note joint arrangements and associates and note 40 provides information on disclosure between the current standard, IAS 18 Revenue, and IFRS the Groups transactions with other related parties.
The following points were noted.
The 2017 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to The Group sells a significant proportion of its products on Cost and prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as Freight CFR or Cost, Insurance & Freight CIF Incoterms.
This means amended by an order issued by the Australian Securities and Investments that the Group is responsible for providing shipping services after the Commission on 14 December 2015.
The 2017 financial statements date at which control of the goods passes to the customer at the loading disclose on page 117 the effect of the adjustments to the Groups port.
Under IAS 18, the Group recognises such shipping and other consolidated profit loss, consolidated total comprehensive freight revenue and accrues the associated costs in full on loading income loss and consolidated shareholders funds as prepared under whereas under IFRS 15, freight and, where applicable, insurance, are IFRS as defined below that would be required under the version of required to be accounted for as separate performance obligations with International Financial Reporting Standards that is applicable in Australia, revenue recognised over time as the service is rendered.
The impact is referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial The nature of the products sold by the Group is such that adjustments statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business may be made to price if the specification of the product sold does not performance.
conform to the terms specified in the sales contract.
The Group has Basis of preparation of the financial statements considered whether revenue arising from the sales of such products The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing should be constrained under the IFRS 15 rules on variable the Groups 2017 financial statements are set out below.
consideration whereby revenue can only be recognised if it is highly unlikely to reverse.
Any such constraints are immaterial at 31 The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis December 2017. in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards and in Some of the Groups businesses provide volume discounts in certain accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as circumstances which are recognised under IAS 18 based on the best amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission estimate method.
The impact of further constraining such variable Order dated 14 December 2015, Article 4 of the European Union IAS consideration under IFRS 15 was immaterial at 31 December 2017. regulation and also with: As explained on page 122, certain of the Groups products are International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the provisionally priced at the date revenue is recognised, however, with International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the exception of copper, prices are generally finalised within the interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations calendar quarter of the month of shipment.
Such adjustments to Committee IFRS IC both as adopted by the European Union EU revenue are dealt with under IFRS 9, Financial Instruments rather and which are mandatory for EU reporting as at 31 December 2017: than IFRS 15 and therefore the IFRS 15 rules on variable and consideration do not apply.
These provisional pricing adjustments International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB will continue to be included in Consolidated sales revenue on the face and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS IC which of the income statement and changes to systems have been made to are mandatory as at 31 December 2017. allow the amount of such adjustments to be disclosed by way of note to the financial statements for 2018 onwards.
The above accounting standards and interpretations are collectively referred to as IFRS in this report.
The Group has not early adopted 118 118 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The Group will amortise the cost of hedging over the life of the Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are hedging instrument.
This will impact the Groups cross currency within the scope of IFRS 15 and will continue to be included in swaps as the cost is taken directly to the income statement under IAS Consolidated sales revenue.
Other operating income, for example, the 39.
The impact is not expected to be material.
sale of surplus power, which is incidental to the main revenuegenerating activities of the operations, is outside of the scope of IFRS 15 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration and will continue to be treated as a credit to operating costs.
Mandatory in 2018 and not yet endorsed by the EU The Interpretation covers those foreign currency transactions where The Group has an uplift arrangement with a partner in a joint an entity recognises a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability operation whereby sales revenue is recognised under IAS 18 when the arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration before Group sells product from other operations to its partner to allow it to the entity recognises the related asset, expense or income.
The Group meet its contractual obligations when insufficient product is available has made some minor changes to systems and processes to comply in the jointly owned operation.
The Group recognises an asset for with the pronouncement.
product which will be receivable from the partner out of the partners Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share share of future production of the joint operation.
Under IFRS 15, such transactions with partners in joint operations cannot be recognised as Based Payment Transactions, Amendments to IAS 40 Investment sales revenue.
The impact on adoption will be to derecognise a Property and Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014 -2016 receivable of US$235 million US$164 million post tax which has Cycle Mandatory in 2018 and not endorsed by the EU accumulated over prior years as a transition adjustment.
There is no Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with impact on the commercial arrangement or current or future cash IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in flows.
Sales revenue will be recognised in the income statement in the 2018 future when product is received from the partner and sold to a customer.
The annual impact is expected to be immaterial 2017: Mandatory in 2019 and beyond US$15 million decrease in sales revenue.
IFRS 16 Leases Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in 2019 The Group will adopt the modified transitional approach to Under the new standard, a lessee is in essence required to: implementation where any transitional adjustment is recognised in a recognise all right of use assets and lease liabilities, with the retained earnings at 1 January 2018 without adjustment of comparatives and the new standard will only be applied to contracts exception of short term under 12 months and low value leases, that remain in force at that date.
The liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments for the lease term.
Where IFRS 9 Financial Instruments a lease contains an extension option, the lease payments for the Endorsed by the EU and mandatory in 2018 extension period will be included in the IFRS 16 liability if the The standard includes a single approach for the classification of Group is reasonably certain that it will exercise the option.
The financial assets, based on a the business model used to manage liability includes variable lease payments that depend on an index financial assets in order to generate cash flows, and b the cash flow or rate but excludes other variable lease payments.
The right of characteristics of those financial assets.
A financial asset held at use asset reflects the lease liability, initial direct costs and any amortised cost must be managed under a business model where lease payments made before the commencement date of the lease financial assets are held to collect contractual cash flows and have less any lease incentives and, where applicable, provision for cash flows which relate solely to payments of principal and interest dismantling and restoration.
A financial asset held under a business model under which b recognise depreciation of right of use assets and interest on lease financial assets may be either held to collect contractual cash flows or liabilities in the income statement over the lease term.
sold will be classified as held at fair value through Other c separate the total amount of cash paid into a principal portion Comprehensive Income FVOCI if the SPPI criteria are met.
Any presented within financing activities and interest portion which the other financial assets will be held at fair value through profit or loss Group presents in operating activities in the cash flow statement.
FVTPL or FVOCI as appropriate.
IFRS 16 will therefore result in higher assets and liabilities on the balance The Groups strategy for investing surplus cash is to balance security, sheet.
Information on the undiscounted amount of the Groups nonliquidity and return with a focus on security and liquidity.
The Group cancellable operating lease commitments as defined under IAS 17, the manages its financial assets on a hold to collect basis with some current leasing standard, as at 31 December 2017 is disclosed in note 31. minor exceptions.
Money market funds US$7.8 billion at 31 The present value of the Groups operating lease payments as defined December 2017 are an important component of the Groups under the new standard will be recognised as lease liabilities on the investment portfolio but do not meet the strict SPPI definition and will balance sheet and included in net debt.
There are a number of therefore be held at FVTPL under IFRS 9 held at amortised cost differences in definition between the two standards.
These money market funds continue to meet the cash EBITDA, as disclosed in the Financial Information by Business Unit on and cash equivalents criteria of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.
page 206 will increase as the operating lease cost is charged against Similarly, provisionally priced receivables, as defined in note 1 c EBITDA under IAS 17 while under IFRS 16 the charge will be included in below will be held at FVTPL at 1 January 2018.
Both of these types of depreciation and interest which are excluded from EBITDA although financial asset have a short maturity and therefore this change in included in earnings.
classification is expected to have minimal impact on measurement.
Operating cash flow will increase under IFRS 16 as the element of cash IFRS 9 also introduces the expected credit loss model for impairment of paid attributable to the repayment of principal will be included in financing financial assets which replaces the incurred loss model used in IAS 39 cash flow.
The net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents will Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
Application of remain the same.
the IFRS 9 impairment model is expected to have minimal impact given the Groups credit risk management policies.
This standard must be implemented retrospectively, either with the restatement of comparatives or with the cumulative impact of Lastly, the standard amends the rules on hedge accounting to align application recognised as at 1 January 2019 under the modified the accounting treatment with the risk management practices of the retrospective approach.
The Group currently expects to use the reporting entity.
The Group will apply hedge accounting under IFRS 9 modified retrospective approach.
to the aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in the electricity purchase contracts of certain aluminium smelters.
It is not IFRS 16 contains a number of practical expedients, one of which currently possible to hedge account for these contracts under IAS 39. permits the retention of the classification of existing contracts as The increased application of hedge accounting will eliminate some of leases under current accounting standards instead of reassessing the income statement volatility arising from the mark to market of whether existing contracts are or contain a lease at the date of initial these embedded derivatives.
application of the new standard.
com 119 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information information is contained in the accounting policies and or the notes to Notes to the 2017 financial statements the financial statements.
continued These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical accounting policies and estimates on pages 128 to 130.
The quantum of 1 Principal accounting policies continued ore reserves and mineral resources impacts many of these areas and Under the modified retrospective approach, the right of use asset may be the basis of calculation is explained below.
Information on less material deemed to be equivalent to the liability at transition or calculated judgments and sources of estimation uncertainty has been incorporated retrospectively as at inception of the lease, on a lease-by-lease basis.
into the relevant accounting policy notes.
IFRS 16 is expected to be the most significant of the new accounting Areas of judgment in the application of accounting policies that have pronouncements for the Group in terms of impact on the primary the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements and on systems and processes.
statements are: To date, work has focused on the identification and understanding of Impairment of non-current assets - determination of Cash the provisions of the standard which will most impact the Group, Generating Units CGUs and assessment of indicators of establishing the population of lease contracts which will extend impairment note 1 e and i, note 6, note 12 and note 13: beyond 1 January 2019, the provision of training, impact analysis, Estimation of asset lives whether certain assets are indefinite discount rate determination, adapting the contract review process lived - note 1 e and i : where required, and the review of system requirements.
In 2018, work Provision for onerous contracts determination of assets dedicated on these issues and their resolution will continue, system to a contract - note 1 i : requirements will be addressed and work on the accounting processes Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations will commence.
A significant proportion by value of the Groups determining when an estimate is sufficiently reliable to update - current operating lease commitments relate to dry bulk vessels and note 1 k : offices and effort to date has focussed on these areas.
Deferral of stripping costs judgment on components strip ratios and separate or integrated multiple pit mines - note 1 h : IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Uncertain tax positions technical interpretation of tax law and the Mandatory in 2019 and not yet endorsed by the EU use of the most likely scenario for provision - note 1 m, note 9 and The method of calculating provisions for uncertain tax positions will note 31: be subject to revision, as a result of this interpretation.
The Group Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets recognition of currently recognises provisions based on the most likely amount of deferred tax assets for loss making operations - note 17 c, e and the liability, if any, for each uncertain tax position.
f : Identification of functional currencies different companies may The interpretation requires a probability weighted average approach make different judgments based on similar facts - note 1 d : to be taken for tax issues for which there are a wide range of possible Basis of consolidation judgment as to when the Group has control, outcomes.
For tax issues with a binary outcome, the most likely joint control or significant influence - notes 33 to 36: amount method should continue to be used.
Contingencies assessing the probability of any loss and whether it The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this pronouncement.
is possible to quantify any loss - note 31: Exclusions from underlying earnings judgment on items to be Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment Features with Negative excluded on grounds of nature or size - note 2.
Compensation, Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term Interests in Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of Associates and Joint Ventures, Annual Improvements to IFRS causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and Standards 2015-2017 Cycle and Amendments to IAS19 Plan liabilities within the next financial year are: Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Mandatory in 2019 and not yet endorsed by the EU Impairment of non-current assets - review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill The Group is currently evaluating the impact of these determination of discounted cash flows - note1 e and i, note 6, pronouncements.
note 12 and note 13: IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Provision for onerous contracts - cash flow estimates and the Mandatory in 2021 and not yet endorsed by the EU discount rate to be used note 1 i : The standard provides consistent principles for all aspects of Close-down, restoration and environmental cost obligations accounting for insurance contracts.
The Group will evaluate the estimation of costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and impact of this pronouncement in due course.
note 26: Uncertain tax positions estimating the potential exposures for Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of each possible scenario - note 1 m, note 9 and note 31: estimation uncertainty Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets determination of The preparation of the financial statements requires management to cash flows - note 1 m, note 17 c, e and f : use judgment in applying accounting policies and in making critical Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 1 n accounting estimates.
and note 44: Contingencies estimate of possible liability - note 31.
These judgments and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to Ore reserves and mineral resources previous experience, but actual results may differ materially from the Estimates of ore reserves and, in some cases, mineral resources can amounts included in the financial statements.
Areas of judgment in impact: depreciation and amortisation rates: the carrying values of the application of accounting policies that have the most significant intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: deferred effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements and key stripping costs: provisions for close-down and restoration costs: and sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of the recovery of deferred tax assets.
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on liabilities within the next financial year are noted below and further information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code see note 1 j.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Joint ventures JV : A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the judgment to interpret available geological data and subsequently to arrangement.
JVs are accounted for using the equity accounting select an appropriate mining method and then to establish an method.
Estimation requires assumptions about future commodity prices and demand, exchange rates, production costs, Other unincorporated arrangements: In some cases, the Group transport costs, close-down and restoration costs, recovery rates and participates in unincorporated arrangements and has rights to its discount rates and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licences.
share of the assets and obligations for its share of the liabilities of the arrangement rather than a right to a net return, but does not share There are many uncertainties in the estimation process and joint control.
In such cases, the Group recognises: its share of assets assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its significantly when new information becomes available.
New geological share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the or economic data, or unforeseen operational issues may change unincorporated arrangement: and its share of expenses.
All such estimates of ore reserves and mineral resources.
amounts are measured in accordance with the terms of the arrangement, which is usually in proportion to the Groups interest in The Group uses judgment as to when to include mineral resources in the arrangement.
These amounts are recorded in the Groups financial accounting estimates, for example, the use of mineral resources in statements on the appropriate lines.
the Groups depreciation policy is described in note 1 i below and in Associates: An associate is an entity that is neither a subsidiary nor a the determination of the date of closure as described in note 1 k. The joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence.
unaudited statement of ore reserves is included on page 228 and of Significant influence is presumed to exist where there is neither mineral resources on page 234. control nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the a Accounting convention voting rights, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the The financial information included in the financial statements for the case.
Significant influence can arise where the Group holds less than year ended 31 December 2017, and for the related comparative 20 per cent of the voting rights if it has the power to participate in the periods, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts and Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity financial assets, the impact of fair value hedge accounting on the accounting method.
hedged item and the accounting for post-employment assets and The Group uses the term equity accounted units EAUs to refer to obligations.
The Groups policy in respect of these items is set out in associates and JVs collectively.
Under the equity accounting method the notes below.
the investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars and all goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of values are rounded to the nearest million US$m unless otherwise the investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the EAUs stated.
retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
Long term loans to EAUs that in substance form part of the Where applicable, comparatives have been adjusted to measure or Groups net investment quasi equity loans are financial assets but present them on the same basis as current period figures.
are included in the line Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the balance sheet.
When the Groups share of losses in an b Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 EAU equals or exceeds its interest in the EAU, including such long All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on term loans and any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not consolidation.
recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to continue to make payments on behalf of the EAU.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the locally reported assets, liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and Acquisitions note 37 associates to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by Under the acquisition method of accounting for business the Group.
combinations, the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by either of the assumed the identifiable net assets on the basis of their fair value at Companies.
Control exists where either of the Companies has: power the date of acquisition, which is the date on which control is obtained.
over the entities, that is, existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary affect the Companies returns : exposure, or rights, to variable returns comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities from its involvement with the entities: and the ability to use its power incurred to the former owners of the acquiree, the fair value of any to affect those returns.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration date on which the Group obtains control.
They are deconsolidated arrangement and any equity interests issued by the Group.
Costs from the date that control ceases.
related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
Joint arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any nontwo or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value contractually agreed sharing of control such that decisions about the of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of relevant activities of the arrangement those that significantly affect the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Any the Companies returns require the unanimous consent of the parties shortfall is immediately recognised in the income statement.
The Group has two types of joint arrangements: Non-controlling interests in the acquiree, that are present ownership Joint operations JO : A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for entitys net assets in the event of liquidation, are recognised by the the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations Group in one of two ways with the choice being available on an where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the  basis.
They can be measured at either the output, rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees relation to its interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of identifiable net assets or at fair value.
In some cases, non-controlling assets and liabilities: revenue from the sale of its share of the output interests may be treated as equity options and valued on that basis.
and its share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by Goodwill see note e and amounts attributable to non-controlling the JO: and its share of expenses.
All such amounts are measured in interests will differ depending on the basis used.
accordance with the terms of the arrangement, which is usually in proportion to the Groups interest in the JO.
These amounts are recorded in the Groups financial statements on the appropriate lines.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is obtained with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost of the share purchase that gives rise to control is included within Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
com 121 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Sales of copper concentrate are stated at their invoiced amount which Notes to the 2017 financial statements is net of treatment and refining charges.
continued Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: 1 Principal accounting policies continued the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the been transferred to the buyer: difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the share neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually of net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of such associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods purchases is included within Financing activities in the cash flow sold, has been retained: statement.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale 12 months of the acquisition date.
will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the measured reliably.
consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence is obtained.
In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is Disposals note 37 typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or Individual non-current assets or disposal groups that is, groups of the customers premises.
assets and liabilities to be disposed of by sale or otherwise in a single The Groups products are sold to customers under contracts which transaction are classified as held for sale if the following criteria are vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, including some volumes sold met at the period end: in the spot market.
Sales revenue may be subject to adjustment if the product specification does not conform to the terms specified in the the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale sales contract.
transaction rather than through continuing use: and the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller such sales: and proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
the sale is highly probable.
Certain of the Groups products are provisionally priced at the date Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying revenue is recognised, however, with the exception of copper, prices are amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative balance generally finalised within the calendar quarter of the month of sheet is not restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale shipment.
The final selling price is based on the price for the quotational are held at the fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these period stipulated in the contract.
Substantially all iron ore and assets acquired for resale no profits or losses are recognised between aluminium sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period.
the acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a Final prices for copper concentrate are normally determined between subsequent impairment.
30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
The change in value of the embedded pricing derivative included in the receivable is based on On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated relevant forward market prices and is included in sales revenue.
and, if applicable, equity accounting ceases.
Information on provisionally priced sales contracts is included in note If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is 30. remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the income statement.
The retained interest may be d Currency translation subsequently accounted for as a joint venture, joint operation, The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint associate or financial asset depending on the facts.
Certain arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in environment in which that entity operates.
For many of these entities, respect of the entity disposed of, or for which control, joint control this is the currency of the country in which they are located.
or significant influence has ceased, may be recycled to the income Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the statement.
The cash proceeds of disposals are included within functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Changes in the Groups interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a currencies are retranslated at period-end exchange rates.
loss of control are accounted for in equity.
The cash proceeds of such The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that disposals are included within Financing activities in the cash flow presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business statement.
performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income c Sales revenue statement items for each entity are translated from the functional Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties.
All shipping and currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange, except for handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating material one-off transactions, which are translated at the rate costs.
If the Group is acting solely as an agent, amounts billed to prevailing on the transaction date.
Balance sheet items are translated customers for shipping and handling are offset against the relevant into US dollars at period-end exchange rates.
Revenue from services is recognised as those services are Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of rendered to, and accepted by, the customer.
entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties recognised directly in the currency translation reserve.
These payable are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive substance a profit-based tax, within taxation.
income, with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the statement of Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are changes in equity.
Other operating income, incidental to the main revenue-generating activities of the operations, is treated as a Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net credit to operating costs.
investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the currency translation reserve.
Third-party commodity swap arrangements principally for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Except as noted above, or in note 1 p relating to derivative contracts, In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is statement in the year in which they arise.
the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or when e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and existing smelters or refineries are closed.
evaluation expenditure notes 12 and 13 Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more Ore reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Investments in EAUs, including any goodwill, are tested costs may continue to be capitalised during the period between for impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has declaration of ore reserves and approval to mine as further work is been identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i. undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite-life In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of evaluation costs are straight-line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible applied consistently from period to period.
assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure for annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine circumstances indicate a potential impairment in accordance with has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level accounting policy note 1 i. within the Group are reviewed at each reporting date for indicators of impairment in accordance with IFRS 6, and when indicators are The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, identified are tested in accordance with IAS 36.
Evaluation based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no expenditure for non-mining projects is reviewed and tested under IAS foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to 36. generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this judgment include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited In the case of undeveloped mining projects which have arisen through terms or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without acquisition, the allocation of the purchase price consideration may significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future result in undeveloped properties being recognised at an earlier stage periods in view of the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of of project evaluation compared with projects arising from the Groups the products and processes that depend on the asset are also exploration and evaluation programme.
acquired undeveloped projects is only capitalised if it meets the high degree of confidence threshold discussed above.
f Exploration and evaluation note 13 Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are The impairment review is based on a status report summarising the directly attributable to: Groups intentions to recover value through development, sale or other partnering arrangements.
If a project does not prove viable and researching and analysing existing exploration data: is cancelled, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: any previously recorded impairment provisions are charged to the examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or income statement.
compiling various studies order of magnitude, pre-feasibility and feasibility.
g Property, plant and equipment note 14 Once an undeveloped mining project has been determined as Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity undertaken by other than that on land, buildings, plant, equipment and capital work the Group is not capitalised.
in progress is capitalised under Mining properties and leases Evaluation expenditure relates to a detailed assessment of deposits or together with any amount transferred from Exploration and other projects including smelter and refinery projects that have evaluation.
been identified as having economic potential.
Capitalisation of Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the confidence that the Group will determine that a project is manner intended by management, are capitalised.
Development costs commercially viable, that is the project will provide a satisfactory incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the return relative to its perceived risks, and therefore it is considered extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic benefit.
probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The Interest on borrowings related to construction or development Groups view is that a high degree of confidence is greater than more projects is capitalised, at the rate payable on project-specific debt if likely than not that is, greater than 50 per cent certainty and less applicable or at the Group or subsidiarys cost of borrowing if not, until than virtually certain that is, less than 90 per cent certainty.
the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to Assessing whether there is a high degree of confidence that the Group make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
It may be will ultimately determine that an evaluation project is commercially appropriate to use a subsidiarys cost of borrowing when the debt was viable requires a significant degree of judgment and consideration of negotiated based on the financing requirements of that subsidiary.
all relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project: the Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, projects current stage: project timeline: current estimates of the less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
projects net present value, including sensitivity analyses for the key The cost of property, plant and equipment includes, where applicable, assumptions: and the main risks of the project.
Development the estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the expenditure incurred prior to the decision to proceed is subject to the asset.
same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that the Group will ultimately determine that a project is commercially viable.
com 123 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information of these activities based on a relevant production measure using a Notes to the 2017 financial statements life-of-component strip ratio.
The ratio divides the tonnage of waste continued mined for the component for the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by the quantity of minerals contained in 1 Principal accounting policies continued the ore mined for the component.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for allocating costs, particularly where h Deferred stripping note 14 there are significant by-products.
Stripping costs for the component In open pit mining operations, overburden and other waste materials are deferred to the extent that the current period ratio exceeds the must be removed to access ore from which minerals can be extracted life of component ratio.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated on a economically.
The process of removing overburden and waste units of production basis based on expected production of either ore materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a or minerals contained in the ore over the life of the component unless mine or, in some instances, pit: see below, before production another method is more appropriate.
commences, stripping costs related to a component of an orebody are capitalised as part of the cost of construction of the mine or pit and The life-of-component ratios are based on the ore reserves of the are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units mine and for some mines, other mineral resources and the annual of production basis.
mine plan: they are a function of the mine design and, therefore, changes to that design will generally result in changes to the ratios.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact the separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping ore reserves and for some mines, other mineral resources may also costs are accounted for separately by reference to the ore from each have an impact on the life-of-component ratios even if they do not separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose affect the mine design.
Changes to the ratios are accounted for of mine planning, the second and subsequent pits are regarded as prospectively.
extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping i. e. overburden and other waste removal It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access of the second and subsequent pits is considered to be production additional ore and that these subsequent phases are only possible phase stripping see below.
after the first phase has taken place.
Where applicable, the Group considers this on a mine-by-mine basis.
Generally, the only ore The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are attributed to the stripping activity asset for the purposes of considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines calculating a life-of-component ratio, and for the purposes of specific circumstances.
amortisation, is the ore to be extracted from the originally identified The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs component.
for the individual pits being accounted for separately: Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted leases within Property, plant and equipment or within consecutively following that of the first pit, rather than Investments in equity accounted units, as appropriate.
of deferred stripping costs is included in Depreciation of property, If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, plant and equipment within Net operating costs or in Share of rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
profit after tax of equity accounted units, as appropriate.
If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning i Depreciation and impairment notes 13 and 14 and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second Depreciation of non-current assets and subsequent pits are relatively large.
Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather over the remaining life of the mine or smelter or refinery if that is than from a single orebody.
shorter and there is no reasonable alternative use for the asset by the Group.
If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from several pits The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are combined, including the co-treatment or blending of the output from often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where the pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation this is the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated for the purposes of accounting for initial stripping costs.
refineries, concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment are generally limited to the expected life of the orebody.
The life of The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for estimating the remaining service potential of long-lived assets.
capitalisation as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met: Factors affecting the remaining service potential of smelters include, It must be probable that there will be an economic benefit in a for example, smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts future accounting period because the stripping activity has when power is not sourced from the companys, or in some cases a improved access to the orebody: local governments, renewably sourced electricity generating It must be possible to identify the component of the orebody for capacity.
which access has been improved: and The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories It must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the of assets are reviewed annually and changes are reflected stripping activity.
A component is a specific section of the orebody that is made more Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The accessible by the stripping activity.
It will typically be a subset of the major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on larger orebody that is distinguished by a separate useful economic life a units of production and or straight-line basis as follows: for example, a pushback.
Units of production basis Production phase stripping can give rise to two benefits: the For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, extraction of ore in the current period and improved access to ore consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to which will be extracted in future periods.
When the cost of stripping production.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on which has a future benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of the units of production basis.
producing current inventories, the stripping cost is allocated to each 124 124 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally indications of impairment or reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
If any such indication exists then an impairment calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total expected production in current and future periods based on ore review is undertaken: the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
Other mineral expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its resources may be included in the calculations of total expected current condition and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD.
production in limited circumstances where there are very large areas of contiguous mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is sensitive to likely variations in grade, as may be the case for certain measured by reference to FVLCD, this amount is further classified in iron ore, bauxite and industrial minerals deposits and where there is a accordance with the fair value hierarchy for observable market data high degree of confidence that the other mineral resources can be that is consistent with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit extracted economically.
This would be the case when the other being tested.
The Group considers that the best evidence of FVLCD is mineral resources do not yet have the status of ore reserves merely the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement because the necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been and, in this case, the recoverable amount is classified in the fair value performed and the responsible technical personnel agree that hierarchy as level 1.
When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources in the instruments but adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity calculation of total expected production is appropriate based on in the market, the recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the historical reserve conversion rates.
No cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD The required level of confidence is unlikely to exist for minerals that classified as level 1 or level 2. are typically found in low-grade ore as compared with the above, such as copper or gold.
In these cases, specific areas of mineralisation Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the have to be evaluated in considerable detail before their economic recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available status can be predicted with confidence.
to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an orderly transaction between market participants at the Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation measurement date.
This is often estimated using discounted cash of depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will flow techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
benefit current and future mines, then the measured and indicated resources may relate to mines which are currently in production or to Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on mines where there is a high degree of confidence that they will be discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on brought into production in the future.
The quantum of mineral detailed life-of-mine and or long-term production plans.
These may resources is determined taking into account future capital costs as include anticipated expansions which are at the evaluation stage of required by the JORC code.
The depreciation calculation, however, study.
applies to current mines only and does not take into account future development costs for mines which are not yet in production.
The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on Measured and indicated resources are currently incorporated into managements best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, depreciation calculations in the Groups Australian iron ore business.
including the future cash costs of production, capital expenditure, and closure, restoration and environmental costs.
For the purposes of Straight-line basis determining FVLCD from a market participants perspective, the cash Assets within operations for which production is not expected to flows incorporate managements price and cost assumptions in the fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a short and medium term.
In the longer term, operating margins are physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a assumed to remain constant where appropriate: as it is considered straight-line basis.
unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term.
The cash flow forecasts may include net cash Impairment charges reversals of non-current assets Impairment charges and reversals are assessed at the level of cashflows expected to be realised from the extraction, processing and sale generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of of material that does not currently qualify for inclusion in ore Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable asset or group of reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included when there is a assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation the cash inflows from other assets.
Separate cash-generating units is usually based on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of are identified where an active market exists for intermediate products, mineralisation that are contiguous with existing ore reserves.
even if the majority of those products are further processed internally.
Typically, the additional evaluation required to achieve reserves Impairment of financial assets is evaluated in accordance with IAS 39. status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring evaluation costs earlier than is required for the In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations efficient planning and operation of the mine.
with independent cash-generating streams which constitute separate cash-generating units.
As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long-term Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the production plan for the cash-generating unit.
This differs from value in use cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units that are which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its expected to benefit from the related business combination, and tested current condition and therefore does not include future cash flows for impairment at the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
is monitored for internal management purposes.
All goodwill, Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD intangible assets that have an indefinite life and intangible assets that calculations and, therefore, generally result in a higher value.
are not ready for use are tested annually for impairment as at 30 September, regardless of whether there has been an impairment Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows indicate a potential impairment.
reflect the current life of mine and or long-term production plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying to optimise the level of return from investment, output and sequence amount may not be recoverable.
The Group conducts an internal of extraction.
The mine plan takes account of all relevant review of the asset values annually as at 30 September which is used characteristics of the orebody, including waste-to-ore ratios, ore as a source of information to assess for indications of impairment or grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of the reversal of previously recognised impairment losses.
External factors, ore impacting process recoveries and capacities of processing such as changes in forecasted commodity prices, costs and other equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine plan and or long term market factors as well as internal factors such as cancellation of a production plans are, therefore, the basis for forecasting production project or reduced project scope, are also monitored to assess for output and production costs in each future year.
com 125 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information j Determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates Notes to the 2017 financial statements The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on continued information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the JORC code.
1 Principal accounting policies continued Ore reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources, Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, generally based on Rio Tintos commodity price forecasts, which amortisation and impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of assume short-term market prices will revert to the Groups the payment of close-down and restoration costs and the recovery of assessment of the long-term price, generally over a period of three to deferred tax assets.
The depreciation and impairment policy above five years.
For most commodities, these forecast commodity prices notes instances in which mineral resources are taken into account for are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of accounting purposes.
In addition, value may be attributed to mineral the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities.
These resources in purchase price allocations undertaken for the purposes assessments often differ from current price levels and are updated of business combination accounting.
The Group does not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices necessarily provide a good indication of k Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note future levels because they tend to be strongly influenced by spot 26 prices.
The price forecasts used for ore reserve estimation are The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which generally consistent with those used for impairment testing unless include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure, the removal management deems that in certain economic environments, a market of residual materials and the remediation of disturbed areas for mines participant would not assume Rio Tintos view on prices, in which case and certain refineries and smelters.
These provisions are based on all in preparing FVLCD impairment calculations management estimates regulatory requirements and any other commitments made to the assumptions that a market participant would be expected to use.
Forecast future cash flows of a cash-generating unit take into account Closure provisions are not made for those operations that have no the sales prices under existing sales contracts.
known restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be reliably estimated.
This applies primarily to certain Canadian The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent smelters which have indefinite-lived water rights or power an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the agreements for renewably sourced power with local governments.
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining weighted average cost of capital is generally used as a starting point or production, and the majority of close-down and restoration for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for expenditure is incurred in the years following closure of the mine, the risk profile of the countries in which the individual cashrefinery or smelter.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is generating units operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their costs using current estimation, internal hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the restoration standards and techniques.
Groups weighted average cost of capital, are used.
For developments funded with project finance, the debt component of the weighted Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting average cost of capital may be calculated by reference to the specific period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance interest rate of the project finance and anticipated leverage of the occurs, based on the net present value of the estimated future costs project.
of restoration to be incurred during the life of the operation and post closure.
Where appropriate, the provision is estimated using For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the probability weighting of the different remediation and closure impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
The obligation may occur during development or during the In estimating FVLCD, internal forecasts of exchange rates take into production phase of a facility.
account spot exchange rates, historical data and external forecasts, and are kept constant in real terms after five years.
The great majority Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any of the Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
additional obligations which are expected to arise from future To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group disturbance.
produces commodities strengthen against the US dollar without an The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are reviewed increase in commodity prices, cash flows and, therefore, net present at each reporting period during the life of the operation to reflect known values are reduced.
Management considers that over the long term, developments.
The estimates are also subject to formal review, with there is a tendency for movements in commodity prices to appropriate external support, at regular intervals.
compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar, particularly against the Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are not Property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in the synchronised and do not fully offset each other.
In estimating value in close-down and restoration provisions for ongoing operations, use, the present value of future cash flows in foreign currencies is including those resulting from new disturbance related to expansions translated at the spot exchange rate on the testing date.
or other activities qualifying for capitalisation, updated cost estimates, Non-current assets excluding goodwill that have suffered changes to the estimated lives of operations, changes to the timing of impairment are reviewed using the same basis for valuation as closure activities and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised explained above whenever events or changes in circumstances within Property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then indicate that the impairment loss may no longer exist, or may have depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
If appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised.
in closure provisions relating to closed operations are The carrying amount of the cash-generating unit after reversal must charged credited to Net operating costs in the income statement.
be the lower of a the recoverable amount, as calculated above, and Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the b the carrying amount that would have been determined net of operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the amortisation or depreciation had no impairment loss been recognised estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each balance for the cash-generating unit in prior periods.
sheet date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as a contract under which the The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract establishing the provisions is charged to the income statement in exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
The amortisation of the discount is shown Provision is made when the assets dedicated to the contract are fully within Finance items in the income statement.
impaired or the contract becomes stranded as a result of a business decision.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not are the discount rate, the inflation rate and mortality rates.
The a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, discount rate is used to determine the net present value of the compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the interest income present value of such costs at the balance sheet date.
These costs are on plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on high-quality charged to Net operating costs, except for the unwinding of the corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those of the post-employment obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no discount which is shown within Finance items.
developed corporate bond market in a currency, the rate on government Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the bonds is used.
The inflation rate is used to project increases in future disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs benefit payments for those plans that have benefits linked to inflation.
become known, but can continue for many years depending on the The mortality rates are used to project the period over which benefits nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
will be paid, which is then discounted to arrive at the net present value of the obligations.
l Inventories note 16 The current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, curtailment or settlements are recognised in the income statement.
primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are The interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant also charged to the income statement.
All amounts charged to the month together with those in opening inventory.
The cost of raw income statement in respect of these plans are included within Net materials and consumable stores is the purchase price.
The cost of operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted partly-processed and saleable products is generally the cost of units, as appropriate.
production, including: The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
attributable to the extraction and processing of ore or the These are included within Net operating costs or in Share of profit production of alumina and aluminium: after tax of equity accounted units, as appropriate.
the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore or o Cash and cash equivalents note 21 the production of alumina and aluminium: and For the purpose of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise: cash on hand, deposits held with banks, and short-term, production overheads.
highly liquid investments mainly money market funds that are Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are shown as available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to current liabilities in the balance sheet.
if and or when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is Further detail on cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash, expensed as mined.
If the ore will not be processed within 12 months is shown in note 21. after the balance sheet date, it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Certain estimates, including expected metal recoveries, p Financial instruments note 30 are calculated using available industry, engineering and scientific i Financial assets data, and are periodically reassessed taking into account technical Classification analysis and historical performance.
The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held-tom Taxation note 9 and note 17 maturity: and available-for-sale investments.
The classification Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out enacted at the balance sheet date.
It includes adjustments for tax in note 30.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
the purpose of selling in the short term.
When the Group enters into Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, Rio Tinto derivative contracts, these transactions are designed to reduce establishes provisions based on the Groups judgment of the most likely exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or amount of the liability, or recovery.
Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with IAS 12.
The Group Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial provides for deferred tax in respect of fair value adjustments on recognition.
acquisitions including mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as nonbase which may be nil.
Even when there is no income tax base, the current.
Derivative assets, including embedded derivatives separated existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not usually from the host contracts, are included within financial assets at fair taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedging assets, unless they are classified as held for sale or it is determined for instruments.
other reasons that the carrying amount is expected to be recovered primarily through disposal and not through use of the assets.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with n Post-employment benefits note 44 fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide market.
Trade receivables are included within this category: however, lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
In accordance with IAS 19, for post-employment defined benefit plans, the embedded derivatives for provisional pricing included within some the difference between the fair value of any plan assets and the trade receivables are valued as explained in note 1 c Sales revenue.
present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in the balance sheet.
c Held-to-maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of the intention and ability to hold to maturity and which do not qualify refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
In as loans and receivables.
Assets in this category are classified as determining the extent to which a refund will be available the Group Other investments and are classified as current assets or non-current considers whether any third party, such as a trustee or pension assets based on their maturity.
committee, has the power to enhance benefits or to wind up a pension plan without the Groups consent.
com 127 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any Notes to the 2017 financial statements  incremental costs and the related income tax continued effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
If purchased Rio Tinto plc shares are cancelled, an amount equal to the 1 Principal accounting policies continued nominal value of the cancelled share is credited to the capital redemption reserve.
d Available-for-sale Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets s Segment reporting notes 2 and 3 that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the of the other categories.
Assets in this category are included in noninternal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the assets CODM.
The Group considers that Rio Tintos chief executive is the within 12 months of the balance sheet date or the asset matures CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing within 12 months.
performance of the operating segments.
Recognition and measurement Critical accounting policies and estimates Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value i Determination of CGUs, assessment of indicators of impairment, through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value and are review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and subsequently measured at fair value.
Initial transaction costs are the recoverability of goodwill notes 6, 12 and 13 expensed in the income statement for those assets at fair value Impairment is assessed at the Cash Generating Unit CGU level.
Loans and receivables and held-to-maturity CGU is the smallest identifiable asset or group of assets that financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction generates independent cash inflows.
Judgment is applied to identify costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the the Groups CGUs, particularly when assets belong to integrated effective interest method.
operations, and changes in CGUs could impact impairment charges and reversals.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 30.
Movements on the hedging reserve External and internal factors are monitored for indicators of are disclosed in note 29. impairment and include an annual internal review of asset values as described in note i above.
Judgment is required to determine ii Financial liabilities whether the impact of adverse spot commodity price movements is Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but significant and structural in nature.
There were no material instances excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of this judgment as at 31 December 2017. of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Generally, discounted cash flow models are used to determine the recoverable amount of CGUs.
In this case, significant judgment is The Group participates in supply chain finance arrangements whereby required to determine the appropriate estimates and assumptions vendors may elect to receive early payment of their invoice from a used and there is significant estimation uncertainty.
In particular, for bank by factoring their receivable from Rio Tinto.
These arrangements fair value less costs of disposal valuations, judgment is required to do not modify the terms of the original liability and therefore, financial determine the estimates a market participant would use.
The liabilities subject to supply chain finance continue to be classified as discounted cash flow model is most sensitive to the following trade payables.
estimates: the timing of project expansions, the cost to complete q Share-based payments note 43 asset construction, long-term commodity prices, production timing The fair value of the Groups share plans is recognised as an expense and recovery rates, exchange rates, operating costs, reserve over the expected vesting period with an offset to retained earnings estimates, closure costs and discount rates and, in some instances, for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited the renewal of mining licences.
Some of these variables are unique to plans.
Future changes in these variables may differ from managements expectations and may materially alter the recoverable The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries amounts of the CGUs.
calculated using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Note i above also describes the Groups methodology for estimating long-term commodity prices, exchange rates and discount rates for The terms of each plan are considered at the balance sheet date to impairment testing purposes.
Note 6 outlines the significant determine whether the plan should be accounted for as equity or cash judgments, assumptions and sensitivities made for both measuring settled.
The Group does not operate any plans as cash-settled.
the impairments recorded and for determining whether a reversal of However the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the part or all of previous impairment was appropriate.
Judgments, directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash.
This is not assumptions and sensitivities in relation to the testing of CGUs standard practice.
In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cashcontaining goodwill and indefinite-life intangible assets are outlined in settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local notes 12 and 13 respectively.
The value of these awards is immaterial.
ii Estimation of asset lives The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives and therefore issuance of shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of no related depreciation or amortisation charge if, in the Groups shares on market, or the use of shares held in treasury which were judgment, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the previously acquired as part of a share buy-back.
If the cost of shares asset is expected to generate cash flows.
Factors that are considered acquired to satisfy the plans differs from the expense charged, the in making this judgment include the existence of contractual rights for difference is taken to retained earnings or other reserves, as unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights appropriate.
without significant incremental costs can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in view of the Groups investment intentions.
r Share capital notes 27 and 28 Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly The useful lives of the major assets of a CGU are often dependent on attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a the life of the orebody to which they relate.
The life of the orebody will deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
be determined on the basis of the life-of-mine plan which is based on the estimates of ore reserves, and in some cases, mineral resources Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital as described on page 234. treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are 128 128 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information result if the real discount rate was 0.5 per cent lower than that iii Provision for onerous contracts assumed by management is shown in note 26.
Provision for an onerous contract is made only when the assets dedicated to that contract are fully impaired or the contract becomes There is significant estimation uncertainty in the calculation of the stranded as a result of a business decision.
Judgment is required in provision and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors determining which assets are considered dedicated to a contract including: when there is optionality as to how the contract obligations can be Changes to the relevant legal or local national government settled.
Key estimates are the cash flows associated with the requirements and any other commitments made to stakeholders: contract and the discount rate assumption.
The Group has made Review of remediation and relinquishment options: provision in past periods for rail infrastructure take or pay contracts in Additional remediation requirements identified during the the Coal business which were considered stranded.
As at 31 rehabilitation: December 2017 the balance of the provision was US$407 million.
The emergence of new restoration techniques: Change in the expected closure date: iv Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 26 Change in the discount rate and: Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs The effects of inflation.
when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs required to satisfy the obligation.
Management Experience gained at other mine or production sites may also change uses its judgment and experience to determine the potential scope of expected methods or costs of closure, although elements of the closure rehabilitation work required to meet the Groups legal, restoration and rehabilitation of each site are relatively unique to a statutory and constructive obligations, and any other commitments site.
Generally, there is relatively limited restoration and rehabilitation made to stakeholders, and the options and techniques available to activity and historical precedent elsewhere in the Group, or in the meet those obligations and estimate the associated costs and the industry as a whole, against which to benchmark cost estimates.
likely timing of those costs.
Significant judgment is also required to determine both the costs associated with that work and the other The expected timing of expenditure can also change for other reasons, assumptions used to calculate the provision.
External experts support for example because of changes to expectations around ore reserves the cost estimation process where appropriate but there remains and mineral resources, production rates, renewal of operating licences or economic conditions.
The key judgment in applying this accounting policy is determining As noted in note k above, changes in closure and restoration when an estimate is sufficiently reliable to make or adjust a closure provisions for ongoing operations other than the impact relating to provision.
current year production are capitalised and therefore will impact assets and liabilities but have no impact on equity at the time the Closure provisions are not made for those operations that have no change is made.
However, these changes will impact depreciation and known restrictions on their lives as the closure dates cannot be the unwind of discount in future years.
Changes in closure estimates reliably estimated.
This applies primarily to certain Canadian smelters at the Groups ongoing operations could result in a material which have indefinite-lived water rights or power agreements for adjustment to assets and liabilities in the next 12 months.
renewably sourced power with local governments.
Changes to closure cost estimates for closed operations, and changes to Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation: environmental cost estimates at any operation, would impact equity, generally cost estimates must comply with the Groups Capital Project however, the Group does not consider that there is significant risk of a Framework once the operation is ten years from expected closure.
This change in estimates for these liabilities causing a material adjustment means, for example, that where an Order of Magnitude OoM study is to equity in the next twelve months.
Any new environmental incidents required for closure it must be of the same standard as an OoM study may require a material provision but cannot be predicted.
for a new mine, smelter or refinery.
As at 31 December 2017, there are Cash flow estimates must be discounted at the risk free interest rate ten operations with remaining lives of under ten years before taking into account unapproved extensions: the largest of these is Rio Tinto if this has a material effect on the provision.
The selection of Kennecott for which a pre-feasibility study is expected to be concluded appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free in the next 24 months.
Adjustments are made to provisions when the discount rate requires judgment.
The two per cent real rate currently range of possible outcomes becomes sufficiently narrow to permit used by the Group is based on a number of inputs including observable historic yields on 30 year US Treasury Inflation Protected reliable estimation.
Depending on the materiality of the change, adjustments may require review and endorsement by the Groups Securities TIPS, and recommendations by independent valuation Closure Steering Committee before the provision is updated.
These inputs are considered in the broader global context that spot yields remain volatile and somewhat depressed in response In some cases, the closure study may indicate that monitoring and, to macroeconomic turbulence in recent years.
potentially, remediation will be required in perpetuity.
In this case, the v Deferral of stripping costs note 14 provision may be restricted to a period for which the costs can be reliably estimated: on average this is around 30 years for operations in closure.
Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production phase of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within The most significant assumptions and estimates used in calculating a mine and of the life of component strip ratios requires judgment and the provision are: is dependent on an individual mines design and the estimates inherent within that.
Changes to that design may introduce new The weighted average remaining lives of operations is shown in components and or change the life of component strip ratios.
note 26 c. Some expenditure may be incurred before closure whilst Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact ore the operation as a whole is in production.
The length of any post reserves may also have an impact on the life of component strip closure monitoring period will depend on the specific site ratios, even if they do not affect the mines design.
Changes to the life requirements: some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
of component strip ratios are accounted for prospectively.
The probability weighting of possible closure scenarios.
The most significant impact of probability weighting is at the Pilbara The Groups judgment as to whether multiple pit mines are operations Iron Ore relating to infrastructure and incorporates the considered separate or integrated operations determines whether possibility that some infrastructure may be retained by the relevant initial stripping of a pit is deemed to be pre-production or production State authorities post closure.
The assignment of probabilities to phase stripping and, therefore, the amortisation base for those costs.
this scenario reduces the closure provision by US$0.7 billion.
The analysis depends on each mines specific circumstances and Appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the riskrequires judgment: another mining company could make a different free discount rate.
At 31 December 2017 the carrying value of the judgment even when the fact pattern appears to be similar.
close-down, restoration and environmental provision was US$9,983 million.
The change in carrying value of the provision which would 129 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 129 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report and operations Additional information Financial statements discounted to the balance sheet date.
The discount rate is a key Notes to the 2017 financial statements assumption and is based upon the yields on high quality corporate continued bonds in the relevant currency which have durations consistent with the term of the obligations.
The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements in corporate bond yields, but 1 Principal accounting policies continued at any given measurement date there is relatively little estimation vi Uncertain tax positions uncertainty.
This rate is also used to calculate the interest cost on The Group operates across a large number of jurisdictions and is obligations and interest income on plan assets.
subject to periodic challenges by local tax authorities on a range of The following key assumptions are used to calculate the estimated tax matters during the normal course of business, including transfer pricing, indirect taxes and transaction related issues.
Where the benefit: future pay increases to be received by members of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions based on the Groups interpretation of tax law some form of inflation protection, current mortality rates and future and judgment of the most likely amount of the liability, or recovery.
improvements in mortality rates: An alternative approach under current standards is to use a weighted The assumption regarding future inflation is based on market yields average of various possible scenarios.
The weighted average approach on inflation linked instruments, where possible, combined with is required under IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments which is mandatory in 2019 although for issues with a binary consensus views.
outcome, the most likely amount method can continue to be applied.
The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major The Group is currently evaluating the impact of IFRIC 23 as noted on pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its page 120.
Further information on uncertain tax positions is given in current mortality assumptions.
It also uses its judgment with note 9. respect to allowances for future improvements in longevity having regard to standard improvement scales in each relevant country vii Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, and after taking external actuarial advice.
mainly in Australian, Canadian, French, US and Mongolian taxable Most of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entities, that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future entrants and the majority of the obligations relate to former years.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that employees.
The carrying value of the Groups post-employment their recovery is probable, having regard to the availability of obligations is therefore less sensitive to assumptions about future sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation salary increases than it is to assumptions regarding future inflation.
authority and the same taxable entity, the estimates of projected future taxable income of these taxable entities and after taking Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the account of specific risk factors that are expected to affect the recovery previous balance sheet date and the sensitivity of the carrying value of these assets including the risk of expiry of losses.
Further to changes in the assumptions are set out in note 44. information on deferred tax assets is given in note 17. x Contingencies note 31 In addition to the risk of expiry of losses the projections on which Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the recovery of tax losses are based are subject to the same estimation possibility of any loss arising is considered remote based on the uncertainty as noted in i above in relation to impairment.
The key Groups judgment and legal advice.
Contingent liabilities are judgment in the application of this accounting policy is the recognition quantified unless, in the Groups judgment, the amount cannot be of deferred tax assets for losses where the operation is not currently reliably estimated.
xi Basis of consolidation notes 33 to 36 viii Identification of functional currencies Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether after The functional currency for each subsidiary, unincorporated considering all relevant factors, the Group has control, joint control or arrangement, joint operation and equity accounted unit, is the significant influence over an entity or arrangement.
Other companies currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
may make different judgments regarding the same entity or Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment arrangement.
Significant influence includes situations of collective and other companies may make different judgments based on similar control see note 36a.
For many of Rio Tintos businesses, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate.
The Group xii Exclusions from underlying earnings note 2 reconsiders the functional currency of its businesses if there is a As set out in note 2, certain items are excluded from net change in the underlying transactions, events or conditions which earnings loss in arriving at underlying earnings in each period determine their primary economic environment.
In addition, there is a final judgmental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges The determination of functional currency is a key judgment which that, individually or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or affects the measurement of non-current assets included in the size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into balance sheet and, as a consequence, the amortisation of those underlying business performance.
The exclusion of the impact of the assets included in the income statement.
It also impacts exchange remeasurement of deferred tax assets in the US and other gains and losses included in the income statement and in equity.
The jurisdictions for rate changes, of the derecognition of deferred tax Group applies judgment to determine whether or not certain assets related to expected divestments and of an element of the intragroup loans are likely to be repaid in the foreseeable future and insurance proceeds received in relation to the Manefay slide were the therefore whether the associated exchange gains and losses can be only judgments in this respect in 2017: the treatment of the insurance taken to equity.
During 2017, A$21 billion of intragroup loans proceeds was consistent with prior years.
continued to meet these criteria and associated exchange gains were taken to equity.
ix Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs note 44 The value of the Groups obligations for post-employment benefits is dependent on the amount of benefits that are expected to be paid out, 130 130 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on 2 Operating segments their primary product.
The Energy & Minerals product group includes Rio Tinto's m, rnagement structure is based on the principal product businesses with products such as uranium, borates, salt and titanium groups in the tables below together with the global functions that dioxide feedstock together with coal operations, Iron Ore Company of support the business, which include Growth & Innovation.
Certain Canada and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibiLity comparative amounts have been reallocated to appropriately of the Energy & Minerals product group chief executive.
The Copper & represent changes in management responsibility.
The chief executive Diamonds product group also produces gold, silver, molybdenum and of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product The financialinformation by business unit provided on pages 206 to group based on a number of measures, including EBITDA, capital 208 of these fi na ncia l statements provides additional voluntary expenditure and operating cash flows, with underlying earnings and disclosure which the Group considers useful to the users of the free cash flow being the key financial performance indicators.
Finance financial statements, rnsts and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
7 Other Operations 10 8 18 Reportable segments total 41,872 35,329 36,819 lnter-segmeht transactions 15} 11 34 Product group total 41,857 35,318 36,785 Items excluded from underl ing earnings 10 18 1 l Gross sales revenue 41,867 35,336 36,784 Share of equity accounted units and adjustments for inter- 1,837 1,555 1,955 subsidiarl eguit accounted units sales Consolidated sales revenue l!er income statement 40,030 33.781 34,629 Gross sales revenue includes the Group's proportionate share of sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$1,859 million 2015: US$1,585 million: 2015: US$1,987 million which are not included in consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$22 million 2016: US$30 million: 2015: US$32 million to equity accounted units which ate not included in gross sales revenue.
2017 2016 2015 Caeital exeenditure US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 1,201 868 1,608 Aluminium 1,436 916 1,582 Copper & Diamonds 1,622 1,441 1,576 Energy & Minerals 467 141 552 Other O[: erations 35} 11 36 Reportable segments total 4,691 3,355 5,382 Other items 70 46 65 Less: cal!ilal exl!enditure of eguitx accounted units 417} 859 651 Cal!ital exl!enditure l!er financial information by: business units 4,344 2,658 4,588 Add: i: roceeds from disl!osal of !rO !erty, l!lant and eguil!ment 138 354 97 Caeital exeenditure eer cash flow statement 4,482 3,012 4,585 Capital expenditure for reportable segments comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries' capital expenditure and Rio Tinto's share of the capital expenditure of joint operations and equity accounted units.
"2017 2016 2015 fide reciation and amortisation US$m US$m USi m Iran Ore 1,645 1,645 1,744 Aluminium 1,199 1,250 1,172 Copper & Diamonds 1,452 1,501 1,261 Energy & Minerals 6S2 739 830, :.. - Other O !eratians 32 34 32 G Reportable segments total 4,980 5,269 5,039 """" c Other items 2 42 51 68 Less: fide[!reciation and amortisation of eguity accounted units 526 462 647 L Depreciation and amortisation l!er note 4 4, 375 4,794, '."
com 131 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued Product group depreciation and amortisation for reportable segments totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries' depreciat ion and amortisation and Rio Tinto's share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tinto's share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation, excluding equity accounted units, as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges and reversals, which are excluded from underlying earnings.
"2017 201 6 2015 Tax charge credit US$m usim US$m Iron Ore 2,871 2,005 1,747 Aluminium 543 171 303 Capper & Diamonds 48 320 77 Energy & Minerals 652 331 122 Other 0 2erations 84 73 73 Reportable segments total 4,030 2,114 2,022 Other items 261 191 192 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 36 27 25 Net finance costs 364 -184 l 245 3,369 1,412 1,560 Tax charge credit excluded from underl ""."
ing earnings 596 155 567 Tax charge er income statement 3,965 1,567 993 Tax charge credit excludes amounts relating to equity accounted units.
"Further information on the tax charge credit excluded from underlying earnings is provided below in the section ""Underlying earnings""."
"-nings Refer overleaf US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 6,692 4,61 1 3,940 Aluminium 1,583 947 1,118 Copper & Diamonds 263 18 370 Energy & Minerals 1,242 612 177 Other Operations 138 88 90 Reportable segments total 9,642 6,064 5,515 Other items 483 241 375 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 178 147 21 1 Net finance costs 354 576 389 Underlying earnings 8,627 5,100 4,540 Items excluded from underl ""."
ing earnings {Refer overleaf 135 483 5,406 Net earnings Loss attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income 8,762 4,617 866 statement Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinlo Lo provide greater In addition, there is a finaljudgmental category which includes, where understanding of the underlying l: usiness performance of its applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate operations and to enhance comparability of reporting periocls.
if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
The measure of underlying earnings, in conjunction with net cash generated from operating activities and capital expenditure net of Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and the proceeds on disposals, is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to Group's share of the underlying earnings of equity accounted units assess the performance of the product groups.
Underlying earnings stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount on and net earnings loss both represent amounts net of tax provisions.
attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Rio Tinto's share of the underlying earnings of eQuity accounted units The following items are excluded from net eamings loss in arriving amounted to US$332 million in 2D17 2016: US$309 million: 2015: at underlying earnings in each period irrespective of materiality: US$390 million.
This amount is attributable as follows: US$295 million profit to the Copper & Diamonds product group and US$37 - Net gains losses on disposal of interests in l: usinesses.
million profit to other product groups 2016: US$272 million profit to - Impairment charges and reversals.
the Copper & Diamonds product group and lJS$37 million profit t o - Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
other product groups: 2015: US$307 million profit to the Copper & - Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
Th is exclusion includes Diamonds product group and US$83 mitlion profit to other product exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup groups.
These amounts are included in underlying earnings and balances, gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives include the underlying earnings of the Group's tolling entities which not qualifying for hedge accounting and gains lasses on process alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs eml: edded commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge and generally have minimal earnings.
com I Annual report 2017 Reconcili 1tion of net e 1rnings losses to underlying earnings U: -, : J '.
"L': Non- : '"" Pre-tu conlrollin12 Net Net Net ll r TaKatlon inlere, ts amount amount amount co rn 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2015 '."
- US$m US$m US$m US$m US$rn US$m Excwsions from underlying earning, - -------------------- c :.
":.. :... Impairment charges note 6 796 141 174 481 183 1,802 Net gains on disposal of interests in businesses 1,1 2,344 322 2,022 382 48 Exchange and derivative losses gains: - Exchange losses gains on external US doll 1r net debt and 0 intragroup balances 1 613 113 12 488 515 3,282 - Gain losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting ci 33 5 2 30 12 88 - Losses gains on embedded commodity derivatives not ::: qualifying for hedge accounting d 498 146 352 32 88 ::- Changes in corporate tax rates in the US and France 1,1 439 439 7 Onerous port and rail contracts 1n "" 329 -"" Restructuring costs, md global headcount reductions 177 258 ' Increased closure provision for non-operating and legacy operations 1,1 :,."
282 233 ri Rio Tinto Kennecott insurance settlement hJ 73 28 45 18 C, ::.
- Tax provision 1,1 380 AdJustment to deferred tax assets relating to expected divestments 0 202 202 234 Other exclusions lkl 131 50 Total excluded from underlying earnings 543 596 188 135 483 5,405 Net earnings loss 12,816 {3,965 89 8,762 4,617 866 Underlying earnings 12,273 3,369 277 8,627 5,100 4,540 a Net gc1ins on disposal of interests in businesses in 2017 rel21te m21inly to the sale of Coal & Allied Industries Limited which completed on 1 September 20174 In 201 G, the net gaiin relaled mainly Lo the s. ale of Rio Tillto's 40 per cent interest iA the Bengallai Jojr, L VettLure on 1 March 2016 and the sal of the Locha.
!tS in Srntlan oil 23 November 2016, This was partially offset by lo!
S on disposal of the 100 er cent in erest in Carbol e SavoiE!
"on 31 M. arch 2016, b Exchange {losscs gains on ertemat US doll&r l'lt't d bt aruj inlfagroup balances comprise of post tax forC""ign e:ichangE!"
gains on US dnUar denominated net debt in non-US dollar functional c. u rre nc.
y companies of US$420 million ain cl post-tat losses af US$908 million on in tr agrn up bala rices.
"Net ext:'121nge g in in 2016 comprise post-ta :: foreign exchange: gains ot US$12:3 million on e :terr, i!I LI'S dnllar dt""nominated net debl, and US$393 million gatns on intragroup balances, rn inly as the Canadian dollar s. t"" flglhened agaiflst the US dollar."
C ValuatiOfl changes on currency and inter st rate derii.
d e arcoUhting, other thah those embedded in commercial ccntracti.
val1 tion of embedded US dollar derivati.. H, contained in cootr.
d Valuation changes on commodity derivatives, embedded it1 cotntnertiail con tracts and othe-r fma ncial commodity derivatives, that a re ineligible for hedge a c cout1ting, but ror which there will be an offsetting change in futurli' Gtoup earhirigs e DeferreO t, 3x assets have been rttneasured to refl ct lower corporate incom!
in the US and France sa result of tax legislation changes substantively enacted in December 2017. f In 2016, a review of the lhfrastructure capacity requirements in Queensland, Australia confirmed that it was no long r likely that Rio Tinto would utilise the Abbot Point Coal Termina and associated rail infrastruc.
"ture capacity con1r, clcted llnd-er take or pay arrilngE""ments 11t1d agreemenl was re-ached with Ada."
ni, 1he owner of the port, to relinquish thot capacity Arcordi11gly, ah ohe-rous contract provision was recol ni!
on the t1et prest'fll value of e, :, :pecled future cash flows For the port and rail cap.
1city dis-counted at 3 post-tax real rat of two pe-r c 11t 1 resultin!'.
t charge of US$329 million, g In 201 fi, the do-sure pnJVi iut1 fut tloh-uS, etating ahd legacy operations increased mainly due to the fiove, :1lunlini.
1 Siflce May 2014- The l ro.. islofl was updated based on the cost es1imates from the studies.
future revisior1s ta the clo:sute cosl es.
timate during the sludy periods including the ne 't.
stagie or reasibiliLy study will continue to be exdudi!
P'S the site operating assets havebee-h rully Impaired, {h In 2017.
Rio Tinto rece-ived the final settlement on the insurr:1rice ctc1ims related to the 2013 slide at Rio Tinto Kennecott's 8ir1gham Canyon minE!, The amounts excluded rrom ut, derlyiflg earnings are consistent with the previou!:.
e i:ctuded loses to which they relate.
ill line witll the treatment of the 2013 and 201 5, settlement p. ayni nts..
I Tax provision includes.. amount-s provided for specific tax matters for which the limi11g o resolution and potenti.
al economic outflow cJre uncertain During 2016. provision was made ih relation to rnatter 1.. u1t11P.
r1i sioh with the Australian Taxation Office ATO ill relatian1othe tran fP.
r pri ing of 'Prtain trarisadions between Rio Tinto entities based in Australia and the Group's commercial centre in Singapore fot th petiod since 2009.
tl tax assets ha e beefl derecognised as a result of r ised profit forec.
{k mher c. :tedits and chatges that, lhdividually, or in aggregaite if of simil... rty.
c11re of a hature vt size to require excluslofl in order to provide additional insight into uridi.
ir es 1 per, ottnaflce In 2016, other exc.
"lusions i11Cluded costs related to n1ulti le lrahsforrnation ptojects and the recuperation of capital losses a{lainst c. :ipital g. ail's ar1 divest1t1e1 1t lt1 2015, othEr e {clusions included a provision relating to the i11cornpletE"" divestrneht or C:arborie Savoie wilhih the Aluminium product group, divestmrmt cost at1d a fl ihcrease in provision relatihg to Lhe Gove reti ni!!ry."
"from uriclertyihg e rnings relating to equity accounted units arc stat d after ta'll: and aire ini:--ludPd ifl the c-olumn ""Pre--ta-x"", Annual report 2017 I riotinto."
al desUnat1on is based on the ultimate c. ountry of desti, iation of thE!
If the eventual destination of the 11roduct sold through trnders is ncit knowr1 then revenue isaUocated to the tocation uf U, e product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred.
Hio Tint o is domiciled in bot h t he UK and Australia b, '1e 2016 t:lfld 201 S c. :ornpcHi1tive!j Gbove t1c1w beetl cHnettded tu t:onect the allocatioh af revenues by region.
The most sfgnificant Impacts are an lncrea, se in the a mounts allocated t o Chi ha 2016, U5$337 million: 2015, U5$135 mlllioo and Canada {2015, US$155 million and decrease in amounts allocated to Asia excluding China and Japan 2016: US$319 mituori: : 015: US$ SJ rnilli H'i, ThM i!'.
t nri the tot l coMnlidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue by product Consolidated sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: 2017 2016 2015 US$m US m US$m Iron ore 20,010 15,855 15,239 Aluminium 10,864 9,342 9,904 Copper 1,760 1,509 1,577 Coal 2,822 2,567 2,703 Industrial minerals 2,060 1,954 2,155 Gold 378 508 1,063 Diamonds 706 613 598 Other 1.430 1,233 1.490 Consolidated sales revenue 33,781 34,829 40030 Non.
current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
2017 2016 Non-current as sets other than excluded Items I US$m US$m Austratia 32,890 30,602 Canada 14,640 14,362 Mongolia 8,582 7,743 United States of America 4,812 4,958 Africa 3,781 3,882 South America 3,304 3,785 Indonesia 1,458 1,482 Europe excluding France and the UK 362 429 UK 66 66 France 276 251 other countries 892 B91 71,063 68.451 Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Deferred tax assets 3,395 3,728 Other financial assets including loans to equity accounted units 510 822 Quasi equity loans to equity accounted units b 159 153 Tax recoverable 30 38 Trade and other receivables 1,397 975 Total non-current assets !
ts by country is b, 1sed on thP loi:atio11 of the busihess units holdh1g the assets.
in equity accounted units tot alling US$4,327 million 2016: US$.
"t:l. 856 millioh} which ter:i esehts the Group's, sh ate of net assets excluding 1uasi equity loans shown separately within ""Loans to equrty."
accounted units comprise, qu, 11si eQuity loans of US$159 million 2016: US$163 million inci.
"uded in ""lnvestmellts iti equity accounted uriits"" on the race of the balatice 1 sheet and non-cur re11t nonuasi egulty loons of US$ 39 million 2016: US$39 tnillion shown within ' Olh er financial assets''."
com I Annual rcporl 2017 4 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately Adjusted l 2017 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m US$m 1 Raw materials, consumables, repairs and maintenance 1 9,286 8,760 8,966 Amortisation af intangible assets 13 177 227 207 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,198 4,567 4,438 Employment costs 5 4,765 4,881 5,446 Shipping and other freight costs, 1 1,454 2,165 2,338 lncrease decrease in finished goods and work in progresslI 82 87 558 Royalties 2,228 1,889 1,863 1,184 Amounts charged by equity accounted units ILi 980 1,246 38 263 Net foreign exchange losses gains 61 Other external costs 1, H, 1 3,935 3,472 4,181 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 26 527 1,404 731 Research and development 58 60 104 486 521 Costs in eluded above qualifying for capitalisation 661 l 703 1, 062 Other operating income 1,002 27,919 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately c, 1 26,983 26,799 1 a The 2016 and 2015 c:urnpan1U es have b Em amended to reclassify, ert::tit1 arnounts Uetwe-en operating cost categorie$.
"to fide-crease the aimount allocated to "" lncrease decrease in finished goods and work in progress"" 2D16: U5$304 million: 2015: US$143 million and to increase ""Raw materials, consumables, l' 'pairs and maint enance"" by the same iltnoont."
{b AmDunts charged by equity acrnunted units relate to toll processln!J and, a so ir1clude purch, ase:s from qulty.
accounted units of bauxite and alutnlniutn which are then processed by th 1 product group or sold to third parties.
in proportion to the Group s share of the equity accounted unit but in 2017, LIS$229 miUior1 2016: LIS$3&3 miUioni 2015: US$3?8 million related to pu, chases oft he other investors' shw, of production c Net operating costs includes operating lease expense of US$555 million 2016: U 5$541 million.
"c. -.. t forleases of dry ulk """"""""""Ls IYhic h inclurJ costs for crewing rvic, s are inclu I ed within ""Shipping and other freight costs"" and other lease costs are included within ""Other external costs"", The 2016 comparative has been amended to excLude certain contractual arrangements which do not quatify s Leasi!s in accords!"
!nce with IAS 18 d Other external cosls Include a financial penalty of 27A million US$36.4 million paid to the Unit ed Kingdom's Financial CMduct Authority FCA in reL: tion to tho timin nfthe impairment of the Group's former coal operations in Mozambique.
"Refl""r to note 31 for further detail."
"5 Employment costs 2016 2015 2017 Note US$m US$m US$m Total employment costs - Wages and salaries 4,235 4,670 4,129 - Social security costs 337 429 430 - Net post-retirement charge 44 500 522 439 - Share option charge 43 91 116 128 5,057 5,302 5,667 Less: charged within provisions I 26 292 421 221 Employment costs 4 4 76S 4,881 5,446 1 a Amounts included above In r@spe:ct of provlsiafls for penslon s, post-retirement healthcare, long seNlcl"" leave and other employee entllletnents which ate included jn 'Provisions including exchange differences an provisions ' in note 4 rn ""' Ann ua L report 20 17 I rio !into."
com 135 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 6 Impairment charges and reversals Noncontrolling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2017 2017 2017 2017 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Energy & Minerals Roughrider 357 100 - 257 - 229 Energy & Minerals Rssing 267 7 83 177 - - Energy & Minerals Simandou - - 91 91 - 2,039 Energy & Minerals Energy Resources of Australia - - - - - 260 Copper & Diamonds Argyle 172 34 - 138 241 - Copper & Diamonds Molybdenum Autoclave Process - - - - - 17 Aluminium Other - - - - - 179 - - - - 8 67 Other Total impairment charge net of reversals 796 141 174 481 249 2,791 Allocated as: Goodwill 12 - - 116 Intangible assets 13 357 1 1,833 Property, plant and equipment 14 435 248 652 Other assets and liabilities 4 - 190 Total impairment charge net of reversals 796 249 2,791 Comprising: Total impairment charge net of reversals in the financial 796 249 2,791 information by business unit page 206 Taxation including related to EAUs 141 66 57 Non-controlling interests 174 - 1,046 Total impairment in the income statement 481 183 1,802 Energy & Minerals Energy Resources of Australia ERA, Australia Roughrider, Canada In 2015, a pre-tax write-down to property, plant and equipment and Following a reassessment of planned exploration spend in the six intangible assets of US$260 million to fully write off these long-term months ended 30 June 2017, substantive expenditure to evaluate the assets was recognised.
Deferred tax assets of US$123 million were Roughrider deposit is neither budgeted nor planned.
These also fully written off.
circumstances were identified as an impairment indicator under IFRS 6 and the recoverable amount for the evaluation and exploration assets Copper & Diamonds was determined to be US$nil due to the significant uncertainty over Argyle Diamond Mine, Australia whether commercially viable quantities of mineral resources could be In 2016, an impairment trigger assessment at the Argyle cashidentified at a future date.
Accordingly an impairment charge of generating unit resulted in the identification of impairment indicators US$357 million was recorded in 2017 to fully write-off the mineral as a result of lower production volumes compared with forecast and interests recognised on acquisition.
lower prices achieved for bulk diamonds.
The recoverable amount for Argyle was determined to be US$191 million, resulting in a pre-tax In 2015, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$116 million to fully write-off impairment charge of US$241 million to property, plant and goodwill and a pre-tax impairment charge of US$113 million to equipment and intangible assets.
exploration and evaluation intangible assets was recognised in relation to the Roughrider deposit.
The recoverable amount for Roughrider was In 2017, an impairment trigger assessment at the Argyle cashdetermined by reference to a fair value less cost of disposal FVLCD generating unit resulted in the identification of impairment indicators model in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i. because of lower production volumes compared with forecast, a smaller than expected contribution from productivity improvements Rssing, Namibia and lower realised prices.
In assessing the recoverable amount of the An impairment indicator was identified at the Rssing Uranium cashassets, it was determined that the property, plant and equipment, generating unit as a result of structural changes in the forecast prices including an updated closure asset, was fully impaired resulting in a for uranium due to oversupply in the market.
In assessing the pre-tax impairment charge of US$172 million.
The impairment charge recoverable amount of the assets, it was determined that the resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets of US$34 million: property, plant and equipment and certain other non-current assets these will be recovered by other business units in the same tax group.
were fully impaired resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$267 million.
Molybdenum Autoclave Process, US In 2015, previously estimated net disposal proceeds for the Simandou, Guinea Molybdenum Autoclave Process project were reduced resulting in a In 2015, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$1,655 million to exploration pre-tax impairment of US$17 million recorded against property, plant and evaluation intangible assets and a pre-tax impairment charge of and equipment.
US$194 million to property, plant and equipment were recognised to fully write-down the long-term assets of the Simandou project.
In addition a Aluminium pre-tax charge of US$7 million was recognised in relation to inventories Other and a pre-tax charge of US$183 million was also recognised as a financial In 2015, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$147 million was recorded liability for contractual arrangements.
This liability was settled during in relation to the Carbone Savoie cash-generating unit and US$32 2017 by the Groups subsidiary Simfer Jersey Limited from the proceeds million was recorded in relation to other aluminium businesses which of a share issue.
The non-controlling interest component of this were subsequently disposed of.
transaction US$91 million has been accounted for as an impairment reversal consistent with the original accounting treatment.
com Annual report 2017 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units.
accounted units 17 20 35 Profit before taxation 530 477 538 Taxation {191 156 177 Profit for the i ear {Rio Tinto share 339 321 361 il Sales revll!nue cf equity accouf ted units include-s sates by e uity accounted units to Group ubsidiaries.
Further information relating to the Group's interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36.
8 Finance income and finance costs 2017 2 016 2015 Note USSm US$m usi m Finance income from equity accounted units Rio Tinto share 4 6 8 Other finance income Q ncluding bank deposits and other financial assets 83 44.
J17 Total finance income 141 89 52 Interest on: - Financial liabilities at amortised cost and associated derivatives 819 895 972 - Finance leases 3 3 4 Fair value movements: - Bonds designated as hedged items in fair value hedges 28 89 17 - Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in fair value hedges 22 89 11 Loss on early redemption of bonds a 256 324 Amounts caQitalised 14 224 111 254 Total finance costs {848 1,111 750, a In 2017, lo!
s Ol'l early rt1dernptio11 of bondsindudes a premium charge of US$238 million: Ulla mortised debt Issuance costs and faes of US$14 million ahd the write-off or the fair value hedge adjustment or US$4 milUao see note 3U In 20161 loss on early redemption of bonds included a pr rniurn c. :ha ye of US$441 tnilliah: unamortised iebt tssu r, ceCIY.
::it cmd f es of llS$42 tnl lton partially offset by the write-off of fair value hedge adjustments afUS$1S9 million see note 30..., '.
com 137 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 9 Taxation 2017 2016 2015 Note US$m US$m US$m Taxation chargeCurrent 3,270 2,115 1,132 - Deferred 17 695 548 139 3,965 1,567 993 2017 2016 2015 Prirna facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before taxation 12,816 6,343 726 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 339 321 3fil Parent companies' and subsidiaries' profit loss before tax 12,477 6,022 1, 087 Prima facie tax payable receivable at UK rate of 19 per cent 2016: 20 per cent: 2,371 1,204 217 2015: 20 per cent Higher rate of taxation on Australian underlying earnings 1,069 604 506 Impact of items excluded in arriving at underlying earnings lI: - Impairment charges net of reversals 10 16 615 - Gains and losses on disposal of businesses 123 30 11 - Exchange and gains losses on derivatives 48 33 481 - Onerous port and ra ii contracts 45 - Closure provision for legacy operations 40 - Tax provision !1 380 - Adjustment to deferred tax assets relating to expected divestments, 1 202 250 - Changes in corporate tax rates in the US and France ldl 439 - Other exclusions 14 48 17 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 21 9 3 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia on underlying earnings 92 283 68 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 15 15 33 Research, development and other investment allowances 13 15 21 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 40 {154 40 Write-down of previously recognised deferred tax assets I 160 Unrecognised current year operating losses 26 25 45 Other items 1 2 17 12 1 Total taxation charge 3,965 1,567 993 a The impact for eacl'I item includes the effect of tax rates applicable outside the llK.
b Tax provision indudesamounts provided ror specific tax matters.
h the timing of resolution and pntent iail e-conamic outflow arl:!
ur, cl:!rtain, OtJring 2016 provjsion was made in relation ta matters.
under discussion wJth the Australian Taxation Office ATD ira relation ta the tr.
ar priring of, en rn tr2msc1rtions bPtween Rio Tinto entities.
"Dased in Australia and the Grouprs commercial centre in Singapore for the period sine"" 20094 c Defi?rred taxassets ha1i1'1 been deracognised."
"Vi d profit forE""u ts in Fta11ce due to expected dl1i1esttnents, d Defl?rred tax assets haue he re-rrit, rJ!"
:iUred tv teflt:?dlowt-rcor urate income tc:1x tates in U1e US ahd France a-s a res.
ult of taxleglsJation changes substantlvety enacted fn Decembe r 2017, e The Wtite--down of pt viously recognised deferred tax assets in 2017 primarily rel21tes to a r'1duction in recognised def@rred tax assets on brought rorw.
asberg f Other items include various adjustments.
to provisions for taxation of prior periods.
g This tax reconciliation relates to the Group's.
parent companie, subsidiaries rid joint operc1tions The Croup's-sh:, 1', e of prnfit ofe-quity account d units is Ile of tax charges of US$191 million 2016, US$156 million: 2015, US$177 million.
2017 2016 2015 Total Total Total US$m US$m US$m Tax charge credit on actuarial gains and losses on post-retirement benefit plans 12 29 175 Adjustments to deferred tax on post-retirement benefit plans due to changes in 140 corporate tax rates in the US and France Other 1 4 3 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income loss for the year CJ 1 S3 33 178 a} This comprises I deferred ta !
chargeof US$153 million 2016: credil or US$33 millioni 2015: charge or US$17-4 million} and a rnrre-nt tax chargeot US$nil 2016: US$nil: 2015: ch.
arg of US$4 million}, plus a shaite oftatotl olher compretn hsi 1e lhrntn of equity accaunted units.
shown separatiely SE!e note 17, 138 riotinto.
com I Annual report 2017 10 Earnings loss per ordinary share v, 2017 2016 r Weighted Weighted.
average 2017 average 2016 2017 number of Per share 2D16 number of Per share Earnings shares amount Earnings sh Jres amount US$m mllUons cents US$m millions cents] Basic earnings per share attributable to rd inary shareholders of Rio Tinto ll 8 762 1 786.7 490.4 4,617 1 797.3 256.9 Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto lb 8,762 1 799.5 486.9 4,617 1,808.5 255.3 2015 Weighted average 2015 2015 number of Per share Loss shares amount US m millions cents Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto{ 866 l... 1.
Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto lb 866 1,824.7 47.5 {.
n1imberof shares I'S calculated as theaveragP.
"oumbeir of Rio Tinto pie shares outstandin9 nnt hPLd i""9S treasury shares or 1,36-4."
S million 201 6: 1,37: l. 7 millinni 2015: 1,398. l million plus lhe average number of Ria Tinta Limited shares outstiJndlr, g of 422.3 million 2016: -423.6 million: 2015: 426 6 million aver the relevant period.
No io Tinto Limited ordiharyshates were held by Rio Tinto pk in any of the periods presented b For the pur, :1oses of cakulating diluted earflings per sl1ate, the effect Df dilutive securities of 12 8 1nillio11 shates ir, 2017 all 1 1.3 milliDn shares in 2016 i:s: t1ddf.
'd to the 'Weighted average number of shares described in {.. i} :ibove.
This effect is calculated Jllder the treasury stock n1ethod.
"e with IAS 33 ""Earn logs pe r share""t for the putpo'Ses a f calculati119 diluted lDss per share, the effed nf potentially dilutive securities has not been taken ir, to acc-ount fot the year ndcd 31 December 2D1S Thi:' Group's only poterllial dilutive ordinary shires ar sh."
ii re options for which terms and c:andltlon-s are described in note 43.
11 Dividends 2017 2016 2015 US$m US$rn US$rn Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,725 1,443 1,542 Rio Tinto plc interim dividend paid 1,530 604 1,476 Rio Tinto Limited previous yearfinal dividend paid 523 473 520 Rio Tinto Limited interim dividend paid 472 205 438 Dividends paid during the '-' ye :::a :.
Sc Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement ofthe results for the year 180.0c 125.0 c 107.
"Sc Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2017 2016 2015 Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 100.56p 74.21 p 77.98 p Rio Tinto plc interim pence 83.13p 33.80p 68.92 p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final-fully franked at 30% Australian cents 163.62c 151.89c 152.98 C Rio Tinto Limited interim-fully franked at 30% Australian cents 137.72c 59.13c 144.91c Number Number Number ofshares of shares of shares 2017 2016 2015 millions millions milUons Rio Tinto plc previous year final 1,374.6 1,373.9 1,412.7 Rio Tirito pk interim 1,366.1 1,374.4 1,395.2 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final 424.0 423.5 435.0 Rio Tinto Limited interim 424.0 424.0 423.7 The dividends pa id in 2017 are based on the following US cents per for t he 2015 final dividend and on 217,661 Rio Tinto pie ordinary shares share amounts: 2016 final-125.0 cents, 2017 interim -110.0 cents and 31,604 ADRs for the 2016 interim dividend: 2015: 342,902 Rio Tinto 2016 dividends paid: 201 S final- 107.5 cents, 2016 interim - 45,0 plc ordinary shares and 24,582 AD Rs for the 2014 final dividend and on cents: 2015 dividends paid: 2014 final- 119.0 cents, 201 S interimL 237,266 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 27,050 AD Rs for the 2015 107.5 cents, u "" interim dividend."
In 2017, 2016 and 2015, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes : 5 those held as treasury shares and those held by employee share trusts z which waived the right to dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 277,946 Rio Tinto pie ordin:ny shares and 22,021 American Depository Receipts ADRs for the 2016 final dividend and on 173,297 Rio Tinto pie ordinary shares and 24,377 ADRs for the 2017 interim dividend 201 Ii 428,529 Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and 13,881 ADRs Annual report 2017 I riotinto.
com 139 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 11 Dividends continued The number of shares on which Rio Tinto Limited dividends are based to Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tint o Limited shareholders on the register at the excludes those held by shareholders who have waived the rights to close of business on 2 March 2018. dividends.
Employee share trusts waived dividends on 214,278 Rio Tinto The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of Limited ordinary shares for the 2015 final dividend and on 274,899 existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the shares for the 2017 interim dividend 201 6: 681,818 shares for the payment of income tax during 2018.
201 5 final dividend and on 152,834 shares for the 2016 interim dividend: 2015: 727,675 shares for the 2014 final dividend and on The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax 474,665 shares for the 2015 interim dividend.
group's retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out of available credits that arose from net In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 180 payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2017 cents per share on 7 February 2018.
This is expected to result in after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2017 payments of US$3, 158 million Rio Tinto plc: US$2.416 million, Rio Tinto final dividend declared is US$8,542 million.
The dividends will be paid on 12 April 2018 12 Goodwill 2017 2016 US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 951 892 Adjustment on currency translation 86 59 At 31 December 1 037 951 - cost 17,942 17,144 - accumulated impairment 16,905 16,193 - ---- -- - ------ ----- At 1 Januacost 17,144 17,120 - accumulated impairment 16,193 16,228 ------ At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Net book value Richards Bay Minerals 552 502 Pilbara 389 360 Dam ier Salt 96 89 1 037 951 lmpilirment tests for goodwill Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices Richards Bay Minerals and operating costs.
Future selling prices and operating costs have Richards Bay Minerals' annual impairment review resulted in no been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The impairment charge for 2017 2016: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value for each of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
recoverable amount has been assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and classified as level 3 under the Pilbara fair value hierarchy.
FVLCD was determined by estimating cash flows The annual impairment review of the Pilbara cash-generating unit has until the end of the life-of-mine plan including anticipated expansions.
been assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 8.7 per cent 2016: which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and is classified as g Q per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in level 3 uncler the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax real terms.
discount rate of 6.7 per cent 2016: 7.0 per cent has been applied to The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms, The recoverable Bay Minerals is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in amount was determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, FVLCD are set out below: and there are not considered to be any reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be US$ million impaired.
5% decrease in the titanium slag price 165 1 % increase in the discount rate a pp lied to post-tax 226 cash flows 10% strengthening of the South African rand 603 140 riotinto.
com I Annual reporl 2017 13 Intangible assets --, , Trademarks, Contrad r, Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible Intangible 0 evalu atlon aa ass ts l technology assets Total Year ended 31 December 2017 US$m US$m US$m USSm US$m Net book value At 1 January 2017 711 78 2,103 387 3,279 Adjustment on currency translation 27 10 150 29 216 Expenditure during the year 57 65 122 Amortisation for the year, l 13 67 177 97 Impairment charges, 1 357 357 Disposals.
transfers and other movements l 45 2 79 36 At 31 December 2017 393 75 2 188 463 3 119 -cost 2,658 224 3,438 1,537 7,857 - accumulated amortisation and impairment 2,265 149 1, 250 1,074 4,738 Trademarks, Contract Exploration patented and based Other and non-patented intangible intangible evaluation l technology assets l'l assets Total Year ended 31 December 2016 US$m US$m US$rn US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2016 706 94 2,138 398 3,336 Adjustment on currency translation 14 3 47 58 Expenditure during the year 8 23 31 Amortisation for the year cl {13 87 127 227 Impairment charges di 1 1 Disposals.
:itiori usset'S' useful live5 are not determinl!d until transferred to property, plant and equipment, b The Group benefits from certain jntangible assets -'tquired with Akan, incttJding power supply contracts, customer contracls and water rights.
"Thewatc-r rights are expiE!deid to eoritribut E"" to the efficiency and cost effec."
tiveness ot operations for the frP.
"St""E""able future: accordingly, theos."
con ider, id to have indefiniteUves and are not subject to amortisaitinn but :irP.
1 tested oinnuaUy for lmpai rtnent These water rights c. on s. titut.
"P 01 e majority of the alnotJnls in ' Cohtract based i ntan9 i bl e ::i ssets""."
"The remaining cBrrying valuP of the' watE""r rights US$1,82-4 million as at 31 December 2017 rel, ate:s:wholly to the Quebec smcltc-rs."
cash-gemHating uriit Th Quebec smelters cash gehetating un.
it was tested for imp:iirment by rP.
ference to FVLCD using discounted cas.
h ftow:i:, whir:h i in lihE' with the policy set out in note 1{i The recover:ihlP.
"mnunt of t he QuebeC"" smelters is classified as lev l 3 under the fair v lue hierarchy."
In arriving at FVLCO, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated over tl, ie expected useful ecoriomic of the LJndertying smelting aissets and discounted using a real post-tu di5-i:C1U11t tale of 6.7 per cent :2016: 7 O per cent lives The rl!coverqble mount:.
"were detertni11ed to be significantly in e""Xces."
s. of carrying valLJL:!, and there are 110 reasonably possible changes in keyc'l!
:i:SLJmptior1s that would cause the remaining water ri!Jhts.
{i: Fitiile life inlan!Jible: assets are amortised over their useful economiclives otl a sltaight-Une or units of production ha sis, as appropriate.
Whete amortisation is c. ak-ul.
"aight-li""e. basis, thefollowing useful lives have been determined: Trad m:jrk."
s, paten ed and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 ye.
ar Patented and non-palented technology: ten to 20 years Con tract-bas d intangible assets Power contra i:t. -.
: Welter rights: two to 45 yeats Other purcnase and cus.
toml:!r contracts: five 10 15 ye-ars 0 tfl intangible assets lnteirn.
ally g nerated intangible asse, s and c. otnpllter s. ottwarei: two to five years Other i nt, a ng i ble.
assets: two to 2 0 years d Impairment ch.
ruu write-ofrof the Rollghrider deposit in Canada ee nntiP.
6. lrnpairtneflt charges i11 2016 related to the fult writP.
"--off nftl1r:- intangible assetso, the Argy e cash-generating unit see note 6, c Disposals, transfers and other movements for E""Xploration and Cvalua-Tion ir, cludes US."
$34 million transferred to Mining Property if relatioo to the Kemano tunnel project following approval a1 thi.
trc111srers ahd other movements for exploration and P. :i:ituation in 2016 included the disposal of th&:!
}nt lt1e, rmal coal project In New South Wales, Australia.
i : I Ci Annual report 2017 I riot into.
com 141 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets continued Exploration and evaluation expenditure The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: 2017 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m Net e penditure in the year net of proceeds of US$3 million 2016: US$208 million: 2015: US$nil on disposal of undeveloped projects 493 284 705 Non-cash movements and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 24 177 15 Amount ca12italised during the :tear 57 8 152 Net charge for the :tear 460 453 } 568 Reconciliation to income statement Exploration and evaluation costs 445 497 575 Profit relating to interests in undeveloeed 12rojects {15 44 8 Net char9e for the :tear {460 453 568 At 31 December 2017, a total of US$420 million had been capitalised related to projects which had not yet been approved to proceed.
This comprised evaluation costs of US$393 million included above and US$27 million of early works expenditure within property, plant and ec:iuipment 31 December 2016: a total of US$726 million had been capitalised comprising: evaluation costs of US$711 million included above and US$15 million of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment.
corn I Annual report 2D17 14 Property, plant and equipment Mining Land Plant Capital properties and and works in and leases, buildings bl equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2017 Note US m US m US m US m US m Net book value At 1 January 2017 10,848 7,316 35,706 4,985 58,855 Adjustment on currency translation, 495 461 2,242 183 3,381 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs 26 710 710 0 Interest capitalised 1 8 224 224 Additions 230 41 646 3,834 4,751 Depreciation for the year ll 673 403 3,122 4,198 Impairment charges, net of reversals I 304 2 128 1 435 Disposals 57 40 26 123 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated, , 211 9S 417 26 749 Transfers and other movements lhl 393 115 1,398 {2,229 323 At 31 December 2017 11, 488 7,376 36,28 5 6,944 62.
093 - cost 24,691 12,029 71,903 7,266 115,889 - accumulated depreciation and impairment 13,203 4,653 35,618 322 53,796 Non-current assets held under fina nee 37 37 leases ll Non-current assets pledged as security Ol 3,307 410 5,308 3,278 12,303 Mining Land P ant Capital properties and and works ifl buildings lb and leases equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2016 Nole US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2016 11,145 7,571 37,900 61,057 4,440 Adjustment on currency translation 137 62 138 15 353 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs 25 123 123 Interest capitalised 'l 8 111 111 Additions 237 47 537 2,307 3,128 Depreciation for the year lll 760 429 3,378 4,567 Impairment charges.
net of reversals 11 130 112 6 248 Disposals 3 169 86 258 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 40 88 217 14 359 Transfers and other movements lhl 384 322 924 1,859 239 At 31 December 2016 10,848 7,316 35 706 4985 58 855 -cost 22,989 11,444 68,030 5,374 107,837 - accumulated depreciation and impairment 12,141 4,128 32,324 389 48,982 Non-current assets held under fi na nee leases rn 38 38 Non-current assets pledged as security m 3,310 423 5,332 2,104 11,169 a At31 December 2017. the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1.815 mlllioh.
with US$ l, 37 million wit hin Property, plant and equipment 011d a further US$il-11 millioti within ln stmenls in equity accounted units 2016 total of US$l, 9G7 mitliotl with US$1,511 million Ln Property, plant and equipment ittld ai rurthet US$456 mtllion with in Investments io equity acrnUhte d units.
During the year c pitalisation of US$327 tni Uioh was partly offset bv depreciation nf US $2 99 m illiotl i ncludi n. g iimount.
s ti:cord e-d within equity accounted units.
"Depreciation of deterred stripping costs in rE""spect of subsidiaries of US$194 miUion 2D16: US$2D3 mi ion: 2015: US$173 million is included within ""Depreciation for the year""."
b At 31 Docomber 2017, the net book value amount for land and buildinqs includes freehold US$7,794 million 2016, US$7,276 million and long lasehold US$B2 million 70 fi, IIS$40 million c Adjustment on currency 1r.
act of excharige differences arising on lhe trilnslation of the asse-ls of entitie with functional currencies other than the US dollar, recognised direclly in the currency t. tanslation reservt!..
!ldjustment iti 2017 c1rose frotn the weakening af the US dolLar against other, curret1cie!.
d Interest is capitalised at a rate b. ased on the Group or releY.
ant subsidiary's cost or borrowing or at the: rate rm project specffic: d'ebt, whefe applkable.
The Group's.. average borrowing ratE!
]: used ror C'apitalisation af interest is '1 '15 per cent 2016: 4.2 per cent c, '2 e Assets within aper.
ltions for which production is not e Cpected to fluctuate significialltty from one year to another crwhkh hc1ve a physical Ufe shorter than the rel ted mine are deprnciate-d on a straight linP basis as foU.
OW:i-: -:: l. :, nd rid buildings I :ind: not deptedated B uildifl gs: five lo 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and @quipmeont: three to 50 yec1r5, Pow r assets.
: 25 to 50 years Capital wor1 iri progress: not depre, i:::iated f During 2017, im airtnentchar-ges primarily related to Arygle Di mondsand ROS.
During 2016, impairment charges primarily related to Argyle Diamonds.
"1 g During 20171 'S1Jbsidiarles no longer consolidated"" relate!"
: primarily to the disposal of Coal & Allied Industries limited wllich c lmpleted on 1 September 2017 -see natC!
37. h ''Transfeirs and other movements'' includes.
ific::rtioris between categories, Including transfers to ass.
"i The finitnce Leases under which these s e""ts arP."
U} EMclud e:s as1!ts held un fide!r 11nanu leases.
:1-s security r@present am ou nt-s p1 ed 91:.
HI a collateral aga i nsl U S$4, 6 77 m illlon {201 6: US$4, S. 3 mill ion of k11ms, which are included in riote :22.
com 143 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 15 Investments in equity accounted units 2017 2016 Summary balance sheet Rio Tinto share US$m US$m Rio Tinto's share of assets - Non-current assets 5,913 6,686 - Current assets 990 832 6,903 7,518 Rio Tinto's share of liabilities - Current liabilities 654 612 - Non-current liabilities 1,763 {1, 887 2417 2.499 Rio Tinto's share of net assets 4,486 5,019 Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
At 31 December 2017 and 2D16, the Group had no investments in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
At 31 December 2017, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$1,244 million 2016: US$1,338 million.
16 Inventories 2017 2016 US m US m Raw materials and purchased components 648 470 Consumable stores 875 840 Work in progress 1,082 970 Finished goods and goods for resale 1.027 800 3,632 3,080 Comprising: Expected to be used within one year 3,472 2,937 Ex11ected to be used after more than one r ear 160 143 3,632 3,080 During 2017, the Group recognised a net inventory write-back of US$7 million.
This comprised a US$81 million write-back of amounts previously written down due to an increase in realisable values, offset by inventory write offs of US$74 million.
In 2016, inventory write-downs, net of reversals, amounted to US$51 million and in 2015 US$192 million.
At 31 December 2017, US$611 million 2016: US$564 million of inventories were pledged as security for liabilities.
17 Deferred taxation 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 Januarydeferred tax asset 607 23 Adjustment on currency translation 53 58 Charged credited to the income statement 695 548 Charged credited to statement of comprehensive income 153 33 Disposals 8 Other movements 1o1 61 l t53 J.. --- At 31 December - deferred tax liability asset 233 607 Com risin : - deferred tax liabilities I id 3,628 3,121 - deferred tax assets l l r, 1 iij 3,395 3,728} 144 riotinlo.
com I Annual report 2017 Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same tax jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the balance sheet as ' 'J permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown below.
]:', US$m US$mCJ D Deferred tax Li abilities arising from: :nI Capital allowances 5,208 4,937 U nremitted earnings ldl 588 659 Capitalised interest 391 403 Unrealised exchange gains 31 40 Other tem2orar differences 222 301 6440 6,340 Deferred tax assets arising from: Tax losses CI 2,282 2,246 Provisions 1,731 2,040 Capital allowances 579 883 Post-retirement benefits 616 888.
Unrealised exchange losses 317 342 f:I u Other tem2ora differences 682 0 548 j 6,207 6,947 Charged credited to the Income statement Unrealised exchange losses 36 156 Tax losses 12 122 Provisions 451 279 Capital allowances 278 441 Tax on unremitted earnings 4 6 Post-retirement benefits 149 6 Other tem2orar differences 235} 150 695 548 a The olmounts c. h. ifged directly lo the Statement of comprC:!hensive iricomie ini:hH1P.
provisions for ta:ic: on e:xchange ditfer nces on intragroup ln ns goalifyihg for reporting as part of the net inves.
t in 5Ubsidiariesi on cash flowhedg@s and on actuarial gains fld lo e3 on J ension schemes and on post-retirl:!ment he.
"::i. b ""other movement5"" Include: d. eferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profrts of1tle equity account ed uhits to whtch it n!latl:!s c1nd, in 2016, amounts credited directly to the."
E!nt of ch'1nges in equity relating Lo the restructure of Coal & Allietl Industries Limited c The deferred tax liability of US$3,628 million 2016: US$3,121 million includes US$3,615 milUon 2016: US$:l, 109 million due In more than one year.
The def m1'd tax asset of US$3,395 miltion {.
2016: US$3,728 mHliClrt jridudes US$3,386 million 2016: US$3,721 million celvable in rnore than one year.
All amounts are shown as non-t:urre11t on the face or the balaric she!
!t as r quire d by IAS 12. d Def!rr@d t.. ix is nol r-ec:ognlsecl on th!!
:idiaries anajoit1tventures totalling US$3,242 rnilliora 2016: US$2,523 million, .. -here the Group is.
able to cont rol the timing of the remittance atid It is prababtl!!
that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
I these earnrn, gs were remitted, t&x or US$131 million 2016: US$125 miltion would be payable.
There is a limited tlm period, the shorte t ofwhit:h is si:: yeats, fot the tecovery of US$1,679 million 2016: US$1,309 million} of a:ic losses and other tax assets which hi:1Ye b fl rerngllised as deferred t x assets in 1tiefi11a11ciat statements.
"I Recognised and unreeogni, ed deferred t"""" assets ate shown in th table below ond totalled US$7,071 milUon al 31 December 2017 2016, US$7,170 million."
Of this lolal, US$3,395 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets 2016, US$3,7'9 million.
leaving US$3,676 million 2016, US$3,4 2 million unrecognised.
as recovery Is nol considered probable.
com 145 Notes to the 2 0 17 fi nan cia L statements continued 17 Deferred taxation continued The recognised amounts do not in dude deferred tax assets that have been netted off against deferred tax liabilities.
include US$432 million 2016: US$365 million tram tax loss.
es tll, expire if not recove, ed against taxable profits withi11 eight years.
ses hc1ve beet1 calculatE!d in accordance with the provisions of the Oyu ToLQoi Investment Agreemerit and MonQOlian laws.. Recovery of lhe recognised deter, d ta :' as o:ll!ts i expected to commence-from 7023 l. iased an projiected cash flaws in the Latest lite-of-mine plilll, wtlith indudes delivery of the underground project.
Tax law in Mm190U:i.. ind it, : inh rpre.
"tation by the h1x authority has been, ahd is elC""pected lo cahtinueto be, subject to char1ge."
"Sud1 future changes could have a materiat impact on th amount and period of n. -rnVt"", Y of t hese deferred to:, [ assets4 b US$777 million 201 6: U5$964 rnillion or the unrecognised assels relate to realised or unrealised c pital losses, the recovery of whkh depehds ah the ex1stence of capital gains in future cars."
There is a time limit, the shortest of whi h is one year, ror lhe reco lery ot U'S$2S0 million of the unrec-oghised assets{2016: US$105 million, , 8 Trade and other receivables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 US$m usim US$m US$m US$m USi m Trade receivables M 1 2,314 2,315 2,283 2,283 Other receivables 526 820 1,346 347 880 1,227 Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities ibl 269 269 267 267 Pension surpluses note 44 871 871 625 625 Amounts due from equity accounted units 30 30 31 31 Other QreQa:iments 57 279 336 103 266 369 1,724 3,443 5,167 1,342 3.460 4 802 a At 31 Oli!cember 2D17, tr.
Jde and other l'eceivables are 'Slated nEt of provisions tor doubtful O bts of US$5S million 2016: US$66 rnillioh.
Amounts of l1S$38 million were impaired durin the year, and US$11 millroo of unu r1 pro lision reversed b These ?repayments will be rtl rg d to Group operatihg cosl'S as.
There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest-bearing.
The fair value of current tr.
fide and other receivables and the majority of amounts classified as non-current trade and other receivables approximates to their carrying value.
As of 31 December 2017, trade receivables of US$145 million 201 6: US$230 million were past due but not impaired, The ageing of these receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 US m US$m less than 30 days overdue 122 196 between 30 and 60 days overdue 3 4 between 50 and 90 days overdue 17 7 more than 90 da:iS overdue 3 23 145 230 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
com I Annual report 2017 19 Assets and liabilities held for sale v, -I :, :] As at 31 December 2017, assets and liabilities held for sale includes Rio Tinto's interest in the Dunkerque aluminium smelter US$355 million ::t':, and certain other separate assets.
C '' n At 31 December 2016, assets and liabilities held for sale included Blair Athol and certain other separate assets.
"r, : 20 Other financial assets including non-quasi equity loans to equity accounted units Non-cu 1Tent Current Total Non-current Current Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 US m US m US m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 238 29 267 508 24 532 Equity shares and quoted funds 45 91 136 73 83 156 Other investments, including loans la 188 964 1,152 202 252 454 Loans to equity accounted units 39 39 39 39 510 1,084 1,594 822 359 1,181 Curront ""Other investments, including loans"" comprise US$958 mmion 2016, US$250 million of highty liquid financial assets held in managed investment funds d. assilied as held for trading."
Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,035 956 Money market funds and other cash equivalents 9,515 7,245 Balance per Group balance sheet 10,550 8.201 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 3 12 Balance per Group cash flow statement 10,547 8,1 89 Cash and cash equivalents of US$29D million 2016: US$3 58 million is held by partially owned subsidiaries and is not available for use in are held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of the wider Group due to legal and contractual restrictions currently in this balance, US$158 million 2016: US$252 million could be used to place.
Of this balance US$703 milLion 2016: US$766 million could be repay subsidiaries' third-party borrowings.
used to repay subsidiaries' third-party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$1,089 million 201 6: US$1,0S1 million of cash, md cash eciuivalents.
the majority of which Annual report 2017 I riotinto.
com 147 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Non NonCurrent Total Current Total current current 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m USSm USSm US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,235 1,235 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 464 464 Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.0% due 2020, b 921 921 817 817 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021 l 428 428 573 573 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.750% 2021 lI 347 347 621 621 Rio Tinto Finance USA pie Bonds 3.5% 2022 ll 227 227 459 459 Rio Tinto Finance USA pie Bonds 2.875% 2022 {al 377 377 509 509 Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.875% due 2024, b 644 644 577 577 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.75% 2025 I 1,192 1,192 1,195 1,195 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.
h13d!Jf' rlCTOUfltihg, tias bei:n applied except for the Aio Tirito Fin 1n.
-:e pb: St e-rlin11 Bonds 4.0% due 2029 whkh hc1s ca'5h flow hedgeac.
couoting app ied, b Rio Tinto has a US$1 0 billion 2016, US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme against which the cumulative amount utilis.
The carrying value oft11ese builds afM hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2 2 billion 2016, US$ 2.0 billion in aggregate.
c ThC!se borrowings re-l1:1tE' to the Oyu Tolgoi UC project fmance f. acility.
Th praj t finance facility provides for interest-only paymcmts for thie first 11w ars followed by minimum repayments a crntdl ng to a stll!pped a morti ation c:hiP.
I ule for the remaining tife of the facility.
d rPpr-P ent the l'inal repayment date Furth r deb ils n!
I in notP O. d The Group's borrowings of US$15.2 billion 2016, US$ 7.6 billion include US$2 7 billion 2016, US$2 8 billion which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, and US$4.7 bi1lioo 2016: US$4 8 billion which is subject to various tini!llci.
al nd general covenants with which the respec.
were in compliance a, s at 31 December 2017.
NonNonCurrent Total Current Total currenl c. urrerit 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Other finam:ial Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 481 so 531 517 6 523 Other fin, amcial liabilities 43 302 345 40 199 239 Total other financial Ii abilities 524 352 876 557 205 762 Total borrowings including overdrafts {as above 14,624 552 15,176 16.913 717 17,630 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 15,148 904 16,052 17,470 922 18,392 Swap arrangements The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 at US$0.7 At 31 December 2017, US$5.7 billion 2016: US$7.7 billion US dollar billion 2016: US$0.6 billion US dollar notional equivalent of sterling notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to was fully swapped to US dollar notional and fixed US dollar rates.
floating US dollar rates and US$1.5 billion 2016: US$1.3 billion US Cash flow hedging was applied to the annual interest coupons and dollar notional equivalent of Euro borrowings were fully swapped to principal of this bond.
The hedge was fully effective in 2017 and 2016 floating US dollar rates.
Hedge accounting has been applied to the full notional of items The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps marked a in the above table except for: US$75 million 201 6: US$75 at 31 December 2017 was US$99 million 2016: US$108 million million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due asset and US$276 million 2016: US$516 million liability, 2028.
This portion is held at amortised cost.
"These are included within ""Other financial assets"" and ""Other financial liabilities"" in the balance sheet."
Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 30.
com I Annual report 2017 23 Capitalised finance leases 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 57 45 Effect of discounting 4 22 53 45 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within 1 year 4 21 Between 1 and 3 years 14 8 Between 3 and 5 years 28 6 More than 5 ears 11 10 57 45 24 Consolidated net debt ::.. :.
,... Financing liabililies lb ' 1 0th er assets Borrowings Debt-related including fide rl vatives finance Included In leases Other financial excluding assets Cash Other 2017 2016 Overdrafts 11 Overdrafts bl investments r, 1 liabilities Net debt Net debt Year ended 31 December USSm US$m Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt Opening balance 17,618 408 8,189 250 9,587 13,783 Foreign exchange adjustment 303 245 12 70 90 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 2,777 7 2,370 705 5,859 3,915 Other non-cash movements 29} 21} 3 47 191 Closing balance 15,173 177 10,547 958 3,845} 9,587 2017 2016 2015 US$m US m US$m Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debtand intragroup balances Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt 5S4 160 1,578 Exchange lasses gains on intragroup balances 1,154 449 1,961 Exchange {losses gains on settlement of dividends 1 l 2 1 Charged credited to income statement 601 l 611 3,538. a Borrowings iriducllng financele-a'ies.
at 31 December 2017 diffet from total borrowings 011 the balance sheet as they dud overdrafts of US$3 million 31 D c mber 2016: US$12 million 1 other cuneht fitiancial liabilities.
:'t 2 016: US$205 mitUon arid othe1 11ot1-current fimrnc ial li:i biliti es US$524 miUion 31 December 2016: U5$55 7 million.
b Closing c-ash overdtafls: at 31 December 2017 differ Frum cash ahd cash e1:1uiv.
alents on the balahce she as they include overdransof US$3 million which have bi:.
e11 clussified as a financiol liobili y 3 December 2D16, US$17 million, c} oth r iriv-esttnents comprise US$95B mHlion 201 i. : US$250 million or highly liquid fir1andal ass ts h ld in managed inv' !stment funcls classified as held for trading Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
25 Trade and ether payables Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 US$m USSm US$m US m US$m US$m Trade payables 3,255 3,255 2,787 2,787 Deferred income 246 246 492 234 197 431 Accruals 13 1,347 1,360 1 973 974 Other payat les 352 964 1,316 309 1,072 1,381 Employee entitlements 734 734 720 720 Royalties and mining taxes 4 492 496 3 516 519 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 156 19 175 151 92 243 Government grants deferred 85 4 89 91 4 95 856 7,061 7,917 789 6,361 7,150 The fair value of trade payables and financial instruments with in other payables approximates their carrying value.
com 149 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 26 Provisions including post-retirement benefits Pensions and Close-down post Other and retirement employee restarat ion Total Total healthcare lI entitlements bl environmental 1, Other 2017 20l6 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 3,167 450 8,722 1,455 13,794 13,056 Adjustment on currency translation 200 34 502 110 846 56 Adjustments to mining properties 14 - changes in estimate 710 710 123 Charged credited to profit: - increases to existing and new provisions 233 96 230 238 797 1,630 - unused amounts reversed 37 61 89 187 239 - exchange gains losses on provisions 40 43 83 13 - amortisation of discount 348 35 383 338 Utilised in year 339 258 84 362 1,053 997 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 121 121 1 S2 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated i'l 69 1 02 451 622 63 Transfers to assets held for sale 13 4 47 64 4 Transfers and other movements 1 3 11 7 77 At 31 December 3 370 389 9 983 14,642 13,794 900 Balance sheet analysis: Current 84 277 634 280 1,275 1,315 Non-current 3,286 112 9,349 520 13,367 12 479 Total 3,370 389 9,983 900 14,642 13,794. a 1 Ile main.
il SIJrllptions used to determine th provi ion fat pensiotls and past-retirement healtht:Qre, and other Information, including th E. ' {l. iet1ed level or future funding paymE!nts in respect of those arrangements, are given in riote 44.
LJ The provlslonror other employee cntilloments Includes provision for tong servlt leave or JS$292 mdtron 2016: US$317 million, b sed on Lhe retovant ontlllements in certain Group operations and Includes US$24 ml llon 2016: US$59 mllUon ol provlslor, fOf redundancy and severance paymcnll'.
"c The Group's pollty on doS '-down and restortl n costs ls descnbod in not t k and In paragraph rY undr ""Critical aecounllng policies and es1fmat"""""" on Pll J 126 and t 29."
Close down and restoration co ts are a normal con equente of mining, and the majority or dose, down and storatron expenditure ls ln urred in the-years fol.
osure of the mine, rcnnery or oiler, Remaining livP.. s of operations and infr.
1strucl1.1ro range from one to ovC?r SO year.
s with :, n. iv.. er-age f0r:1ll site-s, wel ghted by pr' Sent closure obUgatlort of arnund 20 y ats 20 16: 16 years.
Although the ultimate tost 10 be Incurred Is uncertain, the Group's businesses estimate their respective costs based on curronl restoration standards and techniques.
Provlslons US$9.983 million 2016: USS8:722 mltllon r01 close- !own and rcstorotlon costs and environmental clean-up obligations 1 based on risk-adjusted cash nows.
These estl[llates have of been dlS'tountad to thefr present value ta real risk free-rate or 2 per cen.
"based oo an l'""Stlmatc of lhe long-tcnn, risk-free, pre-tax cos-t ol bor, owlng# If the rlsk free rate was decreased by O."
"S percent then the provision would be US$1.102 rnllllon higher, Non-current provl11ons for closHown and rcstoralkm cnvlrof!mc, nt t cxperiditurt"" include amounts rclallng o onvlronmenu, i dran-up of USS336 million 2016: US$36G million r xpccl 'd to lake place betwOlln one and five years from the balance sheet date, and USS839 million 2016: US$727 million expected to lake plate later than five y ears after 1ho balance sheet date."
"Close-down and rostorlloJ1 enviJonmentol liabllitlos at 31 December 2017 hal 0 not been ad U$1ed for amounts of US$75 million 2016: USSl 10 million relatl""g 10 lnsura""ce re overie and other financial assets held forth purposes of meeting Uu, se obligations, d ""Subsidiaries no tonger consotldatod"" relates prlmnnly to the disp l of Co. il &All1e I lndustrle Lfm, ted, which completed on 1 September 2017 see note 37."
a} 26,241 ordin ry Shr r. P5 were issued in 2017 under the Globrtl F:tnployee Share Plan GESP.
1 d7,1: fi ordinary shares were reissued from treasury du ting the year resutt in{l from th vesting of awards.
and th e:terdse of options urider Rio linto pk etupluyee share-ba, sed paymerit b::1t1.
with exercise prices arid mari et v lues between 28.63 and 31.
IR p r 5hart:1 {2016: 33,210 ordinary shares were issued under the GESP, and 743,380 on:linary sh re.
s were reissued from trea-sury with exercise prkes ahd market va-lues betwee11 [16... 53 and 32.23 per sh.
:isue-d under Lhe GESP, and 789,887 ordinary sh ates reissued from treasury with exercise prices and market values between 15.09 and 3:2,37 per share.
b The authority for the Company to buy back its ordinary share!S.
was: riene ed at the 2017 annual 9eneriil meeting.
32,937,109 sharc-s were bought back n I caric ll d in 2017 undi:!r the otl market buy-hack programme.
No shar-es were bought back in 2016.
40,912,881 shares were hought back and cancelled in 2D1S u11der t t1e on-market buy-back proqramme.
agQregilt r:onsideralian rot new shares issued undP.
mitliori ?016: US$0 9 millioni 2015: US$Cl, 9 million, The difference between the nr, mtn:il VitlUe and lhe issue price of the shares issued was.
credited to the share prerniutn ac.
"rnunt The, 1g, g reg tE"" consideration received ra r treasury shares re issued was US$2 111 illiori 2016: US$4 ml llia ll: 2015: US$13 million."
No n. ew shares were issued as a result ot the exercise of oplions under Rio Tinto plc employee stla, e-based payment plans in 20l7, 2016 and 2DI 5.
"11 d} The ""Sp1:1cial Votln!J Share was issu d tv fndlnate the joint voting by sh."
:irehvlders of Rio Tinto plc and io l intv Limited unJoint Decisions, folloL', ir, g tt1e DLC Merger.
"The ""DLC Divid nd Shaire"" was issued to fc1cilitate-the efficient management of funds within the DLC slructure."
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisc1tion Shilre if that js requir d under 1he te-rms of ihe OLC MerglE!r Sh.
During 2017, US$38.9 million of shares and AD Rs 2016: US$40.1 million: 201 5: US$34.1 million were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2017, 835,062 shares and 38,84g ADRs were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
Information relating to share options and other share-based incentive schemes is given in note 43.
:' million million million US$m US$m US$m u - Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 424.19 424.19 435.76 3,915 3,950 4,535.
1 Adjustment on currency translation 310 35 503 v, 0 Ordinar:t shares purchased and cancelled aH 1 11.78 11.57 85 At 31 December 412.41 424.19 424.19 4140 3,915 3 950 - Special Voting Share cl 1 only 1 only 1 only - DLC Dividend Share rl 1 onl:t 1 only 1 onl:t Total share capital 412.41 424.19 424.19 a Ir, Navembf.
r 2017, 11 1778,064 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares were purchasE!d a1 A$63.67 per share and cani:elled under.
an off-rttarket share buy-back programme ca tried out pursuant to thP.
::hareholder approval grarrted at Rio Tintu Umlted's 2017 annual general rneeting for off-market and olm rket buy-backs of up to 42.. 4 jJlillion Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shareSc, b In Aptil 20151 11,566,308 Ric I into Lirnited ordinairy shares were purchas.
ancellea unde, an off-market share buy-b.
tck rog, amme carried ou1 pursuant to the shareholder approval granted at Rio nnlo Limited's 201S annual general tneelir, g for affmarket and on-market buy-backs of upto 43.
S millioll Rio Tinto Limit lE!d ordinary shares.
"1 c The ' S pecfal Voting Sharie"" was issued lo facilitate thejoirit voting by :shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tlnlo pk on Joinl Oec::siol""s."
"'rg r. The ""DLC Dividend 11 Share was issued to facilitate the efficient ma11agement of funds wilhlh the Ole stnicture."
"Directors have the ability to issue, ao Equalisation Share Pf that is required under the tetms of the DLC Merg1::1r Sharing ""greemcnt."
S million: 2015: US$37.0 mirnon were purchased by employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto Limited to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2017, 757,450 shares were held in the employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto Limited.
com 151 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 29 Other reserves and retained earnings 2017 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m Capital redemption reserve I At 1 January 34 34 28 Own shares purchased and cancelled 4 6 At 31 December 34 34 -- Hedging reserves At 1 January 32 12 Parent and subsidiaries' net cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 62 88 41 Parent and subsidjaries' net cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 62 116 32 Tax on the above 4 3 At 31 December 32 32 Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 126 139 130 Gains losses on available for sale securities 19 13 16 Losses on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 6 7 Tax on the above 1 Transfers and other movements 122 At 31 December 20 11 392.
0 Other reserves 1 At 1 January 11,861 11,735 11,704 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 108 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 64 43 25 Employee share options: value of services 31 58 58 Deferred tax on share options 10 3 2 Companies no longer consolidated 124 3J.. D m b e r 11,714 11.
861 11 735 Foreign currency translation reserve l l At 1 fanuary 2,585 2,491 492 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 2,942 204 1,940 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 34 11 57 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 78 99 2 Transfers and other movements 11 At 31 December 480 2,585 2,491 Total other reserves per balance sheet 12,284 9,216 9,139 2017 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m Retained earnings dl At 1 January 21,631 19,736 26,110 Parent and subsidiories' profit loss for the year 8,423 4,298 1,218 Equity.
iccounted units' profit after tax for the year 339 319 352, Actuarial gains losses 1,1 94 616 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 150 30 173 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 8,613 4,553 423 Share buy-back programme 2,312 1,946 Dividends paid 4,250 2,725 4,076 Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 43 40 20 Companies no longer consolidated 130 Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other movements 18 37 27 Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the in come statement 57 64 78 Transfer and other movements 133 At31 December 23 761 21,631 19,736 a The capital rodomplion ros, rve was set up to comply with section 733 of !lie UK Comp:mies Act 2006 previously section 170 of the UK Companies Act 1985 when sh ates of a company are redeemed ar purchafied wholly !lut of the company's profits, Balances rclloct the amouri by which the Company's issued share capital is.
diminished iti accordcmce with thissection b Other reserves includes US$11,936 million which rE!presents.
the O i fll!reni:e between the notnl hat value and iss.
ue price of the shares issued arising frotn Rio Tinto plc's.
rights issue corn pteted rn July 2D09, No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto pie rinanci ail.
statements throogh the DpNation o11he: me ger relief provi:s:iotls of the UK Campa nie!.
Other reserves also include: the cumul.
1tive, amount recognised ul'lder, FRS 2 in respect of options.
granted but not exercised to acquire shares ltl Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, the cost of shares purchased to s. ati5fy ho1re nptinn exercised.
The cumulative amount recogni!'..
P. d uni1er IFRS 2 in re spectof options Qrant12d but not exP--rr.
"-i P. t1 to ac-quirE"" sharE""S in Rio Tinto pk js recorded in retained eillrnlngs, r E change differences ari."
5ing on the translation of the Group's net investme11t in foreign controlled rompanies are taken ta the fcreign currency translation reserve, as described in note i d. The cumulative differ ni.
: !- relating to all investment are transferred to the in.
:urue st!Jtement when the in lestment i.
I rnings and movert1ent:s in r ese:rves of 'Sulisicl i aries include those i1rjsing from lhe Group's s. har of :o int aperc1ti on.
:: c There were no aduc1riat losses telating lo equity.
"com I Annual report 2017 30 Financial instruments and risk management ii"": -I., , Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial A - Financial assets and liabilities by categories r:l instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint f, : operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units."
"information is grouped in the following sections: c - Fair values -, :, , 3 A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held lo maturity Available assets other Loans and for sale Held al financial Tot l receivables securities fair va ue liabilities At 31 OecembeJ"" l017 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,550 10,550, , : ''."
Equity shares and quoted funds :n 20 136 136 Other investments, including loans Cbl 20 1,152 15 1,125 12 t Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net :.
":: debt: not designated as hedges 1,1 20 168 168 Derivatives related to net debt c, 1 20,24 99 99 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 198 198 Total financial assets 15,288 13 658 136 1,482 12 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1i 5,922 15 5,907 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 552 552 Medium ond long-term borrowings 22 14,624 14,624 Derivatives related to net debt l l 22,24 276 275 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges 1,1 22 255 255 Other financial liabilities 22 345 345 Total financial liabilities 21, 974 546 21, 428 Held to maturity assets other Loans and Available financial Total receivables for sale Held at liabilities At 31 December 2016 US$m US$m securities fair value US$m -----, ----, -----, ---------------------- ""'- N""' ol""' e --' ""-' A""' djc: 'u""'- st, e""' d,."
:, AdjustedJ 1 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 8,201 8,201 Trade and other receivables ol I 3,047 2,904 143 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 156 156 Other investments, including loans l'l 20 454 14 431 9 Currency and commodity derivatives: designated as hedges Cc 20 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: not designated as hedges 1,1 20 423 423 Derivatives related to net debt 1,1 20,24 108 108 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 202 202 Total financial assets 12 592 11 321 155 1,106 9 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables d1 rJ 5,209 5 5,204 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 717 717 Medium and long-term borrowings 22 16,913 16,913 Derivatives related to net debt 1,1 22,24 516 516 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives: not designated as hedges cl 22 7 7 Other financial liabilities 22 239.
239 Total financial liabilities 23,601 528 23,073 a Trade and other receivables e, clude non-financial assets such as pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to joint operations and other prepayments within other receivables and will therefore differ to the amounts shown in note 18. z b Other investrMnts, induding loans comprise US$958 matron 2016: US$250 million ol highly Liquid financial assets in managed investment lund s classified as held for trading, c These financial.
assets and liabilities In aggregate agree-lo total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 and 22. d Trade and other payables excludes non-ffnanda liabmtie, : such as deferred rncome, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements within other payables and will therefore differ to the amounts shown in note 25.
The trade and other payables held at fair value are valued using Level 2 inputs.
M The 2016 comparative of trade and other receivables has been reduced by US$385 million to remove other receivables, which were incorrectly classified as financial assets.
f The 2016 comparative of trade and other payables has been reduced by US$177 million to remove other payables, which were incorrectly classified as financial liabilities.
com 153 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued A b Financial risk management management principles.
Cash management and investment activities, r:unding and c {osure m:, na.
QP tlerit are managed and co-ordinated cent rally by Treasury using only The Group is exposed to a number offinancial risks which are approved counterparties and within allocated credit limits which are considered within the overall Group Risk management framework reviewed and approved by the board at least annually.
The key financial risks are capital and liquidity, i Capital and liquidity risk managem nt commodity price, credit, foreign exchange and interest rate which are Policy discussed in deta it below.
The Group's overriding objective when managing capital is to The Group's policies on financial risk management are clearly defined safeguard the business :is a going concern whilst maximising returns and consistently applied.
The policies look to ensure that the Group for shareholders.
In a cyclical and capital intensive industry such as has an appropriate capital structure which enables it to manage the the mining industry, maintaining a strong balance sheet and a sound risks faced by the organisation through the commodities cycle.
The financial risk management framework are desirable to preserve general approach to financial risks is to ensure that the business is financial flexibility and generate shareholder value through the cycle.
robust enough to enable exposures to float with the market.
However, The board and senior management regularly review t he capital the Group may choose to fix some financial exposures when it is structure and liquidity of the Group.
These reviews take into account deemed appropriate to do so.
the Group's strategic priorities, economic and business conditions, and opportunities that are identified to invest through all points of t he The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a commodities cycle and focus on the dividend policy and other forms of number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic sh:ireholder return while also striving to maintain a strong balance cycle.
ilso provides some naturally offsetting long-term sheet.
In February 2016, the Group announced a change in its positions, for example Australian and Canadian currencies tend to dividend policy, moving from a progressive dividend policy t o a strengthen when commodity prices are high and vice versa.
divider1d determined by t aking into account the results for t he Treasvry op1.
ril ions financial year, the outlook for the Group's major commodities, the board's view of the long-term growth prospects of the business and Treasury is a centralised support and service function that acts as the the Group's objective of maintaining a strong balance sheet.
The custodian of the Group's cash and balance sheet and its key financial board expects total cash returns to shareholders over the longer term risks.
It performs its activities in a strong control environment, within to be in a range of 40 - 60 per cent of underlying earnings in board approved limits.
It is responsible for aggregate throughout the cycle.
Acknowledging the cyclical nature of managing liquidity through funding and investments as well as financial risks such as commodity, financial counterparty credit, the industry in periods of strong earnings and cash generation, it is foreign exchange and interest risk.
It is also responsible for managing the board's intention to supplement the ordinary dividends with banking relationships across the Group along with the Group's additional returns to shareholders.
The resulting capital structure provides the Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low insurance and pension arrangements.
Treasury policy To maintain a strong balance sheet, t he Group considers various Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for financial metrics including net gearing, t he overall level of borrowings trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, total capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios, either on a statutory reported basis investments in joint arrangements and associates.
However, or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
derivatives a re used as and when required in order to manage the Group's exposure in accordance with its underlying financial risk 2017 2016 Total ca pital Note US$m US$m Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto see Group balance sheet 44,711 39,290 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests see Group balance sheet 6,404 6,440 Net debt 3 845 24 9 587 Total capital 54,960 55,317 Net debt is a measure used by management and the board to manage net gearing was seven per cent 2016: 17 per cent and interest cover the Group's capital structure and liquidity risks.
Net debt is disclosed was 14 times 2015: seven times.
Net debt decreased from US$9.5 billion at 31 December The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross 2016 to US$3.8 billion at 31 December 2017 as operating cash guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio partly offset by capital inflows and divestment proceeds were Tinto Limited are automatically guaranteed by the other.
expenditure and cash returns to sh:ireholders.
com I Annual report 2017 Capital and liquidity risk management continued The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the The Group's products are sold to customers under contracts which vary in Group by Standard and Poor's and Moody's investor services as at 31 tenure and pricing mechanisms, including some volumes sold in the spot December.
Sales revenue may be subject to adjustment if the product specification does not conform to the terms specified in the sales 2017 2016 contract lAA3 Long-term rating ABaa1 Pricing for iron are is on a range ofterms, the majority being either Short-term rating A-1 P-2 A-1 P-2 monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller Outlook lp o sitive Sta b le Stable Stable proportion of iron ore volumes being sold on the spot market.
a On 12 February 2018, Standard and Poor's upgraded the Group'suedit rating to Copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts which vary in A with a stable outlook.
tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
The prices are determined by reference to prevailing market The Group has access to various forms of financing including its US prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme, Commercial and the Commodities Exchange COMEX in New York, Prices fluctuate Paper and credit facilities.
The Group did not issue any listed debt in widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the 2017 under these programmes.
long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is a so During 2017, the Group redeemed US$2.5 billion 2016: US$7.5 priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in billion, in aggregate, principal value of bonds issued by Rio Tinto quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of Fina nee USA plc and Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited as part of a supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of liability management programme, Due to early redemption costs this supply and demand.
led to an aggregate cash outflow on those redemptions of US$2.
7 Certain of the Group's products are provisionally priced at the date billion 2016: US$7.9 billion before fees.
revenue is recognised, however, with the exception of copper, prices are During 2016, Oyu Tolgoi LLC drew down US$4.3 billion under the generallyfinaLised within the calendar quarter of the month of shipment.
project finance facility signed in December 2015.
The project finance The final selUng price is based on the price for the quatational period facility provides for interest-only payments for the first five years stipulated in the contract.
Substantially all iron ore and aluminium sales followed by minimum repayments according to a stepped are reflected at final prices in the results for the period.
Final prices for amortisation schedule for the remaining life of the facility.
The due copper concentrate are normally determined between 30 to 180 days elates stated below represent the final repayment date.
In 2017, a after deliverY to the customer.
The change in value of the embedded further US$9 million was drciwn down.
the receivable is based on relevant forward pricing derivative included in market prices and is included in sales revenue.
The facility is proviclecl and funded by international financial institutions and export credit agencies representing the governments As at 31 December 2017, the Group had 250 million pounds of copper of the United States, Canada and Australia, along with 15 commercial sales 31 December 2016: 235 million pounds that were banks.
provisionally priced at US 304 cents per pound 2016: US 250 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales wilt be determined during Drawdowns comprised, in aggregate, US$0.7 billion MIGA Insured the first half of 2018.
"A ten per cent change in the price of copper Loan due 2027 LIBOR plus 2.65% pre-completion, LIBOR plus 3.65% realised on the provisionally priced sales, all other factors held post-completion : US$1.6 billion commercial banks ""B Loan"" due constant, would increase or reduce net earnings by US$41 million 2027 LIBOR plus 3.4% pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.4% post 2016: US$36 milLion."
"completion : US$0.3 billion Export Credit Agencies Loan clue 2028 fixed at 2.3% : US$0.9 billion Export Credit Agencies Loan due 2029 LIBOR plus 3.65% pre-completion, LIBO R plus 4.55% post completion : and US$0.9 billion International Financial Institutions ""A Loan"" due 2030 LIBOR plus 3.78% pre-completion, LIBOR plus 4.78% post-completion."
In November 2015, Rio Tinto Finance pie and Rio Tinto Finance Limited amended and extended its, in aggregate, US$7.5 billion multi-currency revolving credit facilities, orig in ally signed in 2013, with a syndicate of banks.
The facilities had two one-year extension options, the first of which was utilised in November 2016 and the second in November 2017.
A US$1.9 billion facility currently matures ' lf, in November 2020 and a US$5.6 billion facility including a US$ denominated same day access swing-line facility matures in November 2022.
The funds made available under the facility agreements may be used for the general corporate purposes of the Group.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum based on LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any euro, Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans respectively plus a margin which is dependent on the Group's long-term credit rating as determined by Moody's and Standard & Poor's and the level of drawdown.
The facility agreements contain no financial covenants.
At 31 December 2017 the facilities were undrawn.
ii Commodity price risk Policy 7 The Group's normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the board and to rigid internal controls.
com 155 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Hedgh, g strategy Credi risks related to receivables Rio Tinto's exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject t o the broad commodity base and the Group does not generally consider Group's established policy, procedures and controls relating to commodity price hedging would provide a long-term benefit to customer cred ii risk management.
Credit limit s are est ablished for all shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where of its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at customers are rated by an independent credit rating agency, these 31 December 2017 are set out in section B. ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is Sensitivilie, assessed based on an eictensive credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding The Group's commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit mc1rket prices and include those aluminium forward and option concerns highlighted to senior management.
Shipments to major contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of 31 December 2017.
A ten per cent increase in market prices on the credit insurance.
embedded derivatives in the power contracts would reduce net At 31 December 2017, the Group had approximately 115 customers earnings by US$221 million 2016: US$144 million, and a ten per 2016: 92 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million cent decrease in prices would increase net earnings by US$212 each and these balances accounted for approximately 78 per cent million 2016: US$139 million.
There will be an offsetting change in 2016: 74 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 23 customers future Group earnings with any changes in price.
"2016: 24 customers with balances greater than US$20 million The Group's ""own use contracts"" are excluded from the sensitivity accounting for just over 35 per cent 2016: 42 per cent of total analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39."
Such contracts to amounts receivable.
Details of trade and other receivables past due buy or sell non-financial items can be net settled but were entered but not impaired are provided in note 18. into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery Credit risk re a led to financial instruments and cash deposits of the non-financial item in accordance with the business unit's Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
Government, corporate and asset-backed securities or money iii Credit risk market funds, and balances with banks and financial institutions is Poliry managed by Group Treasury in accordance wit h a board-approved Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved investment grade {BBBand above counterparties who have been under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Grau p is exposed to credit risk from its operating assigned specific credit limits.
The board reviews these annually.
The activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and activities, including investments in treasury and liquidity funds, therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss th rough deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short-term counterparty failure.
investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Group's financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2017 2016 US$m Note US$m Ad.
usted l Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,550 8,201 Trade and other receivables I 2,985 3,047 Investments 20 1,152 454 Derivative assets 20 267 532 loans to eguiti accounted units 39 39 Total 14 993 12,273 a The 2016 comparative of trade and other receivables has been reduced by US$385 million to remove other receivables.
which were incorrectly classified as financial assets.
com I Annual report 2017 iv Foreign exchange risk The majority of debt and ot her financial assets and liabilities including Policy intragroup balances, are held in the functional currency of the The Group's shareholders' equity, earnings and cash flows are relevant subsidiary.
In a small number of instances, US dollar debt influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup diversity of the Group's sales and the countries in which it operates.
balances, are held in currencies other than the functional currency of The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of the Group's the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure t o sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are currencies of those countries where the Group's mines and processing translated into the function al currency of the subsidiary that holds plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and recorded in the Group's income statement except to the extent t hat Canadian dollars are the most important currencies apart from the they can be taken to equity under the Group's accounting policy which US dollar influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency is explained in note 1 d. The Group's income statement includes fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tinto's financial realised and unrealised exchange gains losses arising on US dollar results, A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in external borrowings and intragroup balances in entities with a non US which the Group's costs are partly denominated has a positive effect dollar functional currency.
On translation to the Group's US dollar on Rio Tinto's underlying earnings.
However, a strengthening of the presentation currency there is a corresponding and offsetting US dollar does reduce the value of non US dollar-denominated net exchange difference on translation of these balances which is assets and therefore total eciuity.
recognised directly in the currency translation reserve, There is no impact on total eQu ity.
Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on The Group's financial statements are presented in US dollars, as it non-trading intragroup balances are excluded from underlying most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in underlying as a whole.
It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the earnings, Group's operations.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the use of See section B for the details af cross currency interest rate swaps derivatives.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, the majority of the Group's net debt is denominated in US dollars, The table below summarises, by currency, the Group's net debt, after taking into account relevant cross currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange contracts: Cash and Derivatives Net funds Netfunds cash Other Total borrowings related to net debt debt equivalents investments :n note 22 debt 2017 2016 Net funds debt by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US dollar 9,950 958 14,359 177 3,628 9,294 Australian dollar 332 540 208 313 Euro 49 107 58 62 South African rand 59 59 103 Canadian dollar 18 166 148 155 Other 142 4 138 134 Total 10,550 9S8 1S, 176 177 3,845 9,587, edging strntogy Scnsitivilie.
s Under normal market conditions, the Group does not consider that The table below gives the estimated retranslat ion effect on financial active currency hedging of transactions would provide long-term :issets and financial liabilities, including intragroup balances, of a ten benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular per cent strengthening in the closing exchange rate of the US dollar basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial against significant currencies.
The sensitivity associated with a t en per stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate cent weakening of a particular currency would be broadly equal and in specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of capital opposite within equity to the figures presented below.
The impact is expenditures and other significant financial items such as expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings and underlying acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict earnings, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
r. limits laid down by the board, Refer to section B for the details of sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held cross currency interest rate, currency forward and option contracts at 31 December 2017, where balances are not denominated in the used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 functional currency of the subsidiary or joint operation, and exclude December 2017. financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 201 B, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
At 31 Cecember 2017 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar S G, 1 - Of which.. amount -]:.
r Closing Effect on impcling z: exchange net underlying.. rate earnings earnings.. Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m :::I Australian dollar 78 608 47 :::r Canadian dollar 79 134 3 Euro 120 165 2 Annual report 2017 I riotinto.
rnm 157 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued At 31 December 2016 Gains losses associated with ten per cent strengthening of the US dollar Of which amount Closing Effect on impacting exchange net underlying rate earnings earnings Currency exposure US cents US$m US$m Australian dollar 72 369 37 Canadian dollar 74 159 15 Euro 105 172 - Ten per cent is the annual exchange rate movement that management deems to be reasonably probable on an annual basis over the long run for one of the Groups significant currencies and as such provides an appropriate representation.
v Interest rate risk impacted by the significant level of cash generated during the year.
The Policy weighted average interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at 31 Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial December 2017 was approximately 4.2 per cent 2016: approximately instrument or cash flows associated with the instrument will fluctuate 4.0 per cent and the weighted average maturity was approximately ten due to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups interest rate years 2016: ten years.
The weighted average maturity and weighted management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating average effective interest rate are based on current interest rates and interest rates.
This approach is based on a historical correlation the carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
between interest rates and commodity prices.
However, in certain See note 22 for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2017. circumstances the Group may elect to maintain a higher proportion of fixed-rate funding.
Sensitivities Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 24 and other floating Hedging strategy rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2017, the As noted above, the Group hedges its interest rate risk by entering effect on net earnings of a 100 basis point increase in US dollar LIBOR into interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The Group reviews interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be a the positions on a regular basis.
During 2017, in conjunction with its charge of US$8 million 2016: US$44 million.
The Group has an liability management programme, the Group closed out interest rate exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising swaps with a notional principal amount of US$2.0 billion, giving rise to from fair value movements on derivatives in the cash flow hedge a net cash outflow of US$5 million, including accrued interest of US$2 reserve.
These derivatives have an underlying exposure to sterling million.
The interest rate swaps were in fair value hedge relationships and US dollar rates.
With all factors remaining constant and based on prior to close out.
See section B for details of currency and interest the composition of derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 rate swaps relating to borrowings.
December 2017, the sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies in isolation would impact At the end of 2017, US$12.5 billion 2016: US$14.7 billion of the equity, before tax, by a charge of US$84 million 2016: US$84 million Groups adjusted total borrowings was at floating rates after taking into charge for sterling and a credit of US$88 million 2016: US$95 account interest and currency interest rate swaps, resulting in a floating million credit for US dollar.
A 100 basis point decrease would have to fixed debt ratio of 82 per cent floating to 18 per cent fixed 2016: 81 broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
These balances will per cent floating to 19 per cent fixed.
On a net debt basis, the floating not remain constant throughout 2018, and therefore this information to fixed debt ratio was 26 per cent floating to 74 per cent fixed 2016: 65 should be used with care.
per cent floating to 35 per cent fixed.
These ratios were principally 158 158 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 A c Financial liability analysis ' I :::::, The table below analyses the Group's financial liabilities by relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet ::-, date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will, ::, not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the balance sheet.
"n r At 31 December 2017 - C n -' Within 1 Between Between Between Between year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4and 5 After demand years years years years 5 years Total Outflows inflows USl m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 5,488 434 5,922 Borrowings before swaps 552 148 1,011 916 1,283 11, 387 15,297 Expected future interest payments lI 679 673 670 638 506 4,553 7,819 Other financial liabilities 302 43 cc 345 u Derivative financial Liabilities Derivatives related to net debt - net settled 10 10 14 11 7 36 88 """" - 7 Derivatives related to net debt - gross settled I: n TJ - gross inflows 62 62 958 44 44 1,493 2,663 I - gross outflows 82 82 1,051 55 55 1, 741 3,066 Derivatives not related to net debt - net settled 43 36 33..... !"
"24 21 138 29S Derivatives not related to net debt - gross settled: - gross inflows 795 795 - gross outflows 802 802 Total 7,081 1,344 1,793 1,578 1,914 30,000 ' 16,290 At 31 December 2016 Within 1 Between Between BEtween Between year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After demand years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m Outflows inflows Ad""usted ll Adjusted !d US$m {Adjusted M d US$m usim usim Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables l llI 4,814 395 5,209 Borrowings before swaps 704 191 1,330 1,347 1,317 12,806 17,695 Expected future interest payments I 783 779 722 667 520 5,056 8,627 Other financial liabilities 41 199 240 Derivative financial liabilities I Derivatives related to net debt - net settled 29 29 27 25 23 25 158 Derivatives related to net debt - gross settled : - gross inflows 55 55 55 842 40 1,377 2,424 - gross outflows 73 73 73 1,045 51 1, 785 3,100., ."
1 7. :.. 1 Derivatives not related to net debt - net settled 2 2 OG uc-, Derivatives not rel ted to net debt - gross settled: J - gross inflows 29 29 : - gross outflows 29 {292 Total 6,491 l 1,395 l 2,043 2,192 1,925 18.245 32,291 t1 Interest payments have been projected us.
ing interest rotes applii able at the end of the appticitble financial year.
!ct to variable interest rates future 1 C1 interest pilyment are subjl!
!Ct to cht111ge in line with market rates.
b The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
c The 2016 comparative of trade and other payables due within 1 year or on dmand has been reduced by US$111 million lo remove other payables, which were incorrect!y classified as financial Uabilities.
d The 2016 comparative of trade and other payables due between 1 and 2 years has been reduced by US$66 million to remove other payables, which were incorrectly classified r:1s financial liabilities.
The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$1.7 billion 2016: US$1.7 billion.
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts ancl there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liabHity simultaneously.
There were no material amounts offset in the balance sheet and no material enforceable master netting agreements were identified.
com 159 Notes to the 201 7 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued B Derivative financial instruments The Group's derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2017, are summarised below: Total fair value 2017 2016 Asset Liability Asset Liability Derivatives designated as hedge usi m usi m US$m US m Interest rate swaps l 99 127 108 1 34 Cross currency interest rate swaps bl 149 382 Currenc:i forward contracts, oetions and swaes 1 Total derivatives designated as hedges 99 276 109 516 Derivatives not designated as hedges Currency forward contracts, options and swaps 7 2 Aluminium forward contracts, 1 21 9 6 2 Aluminium embedded derivatives 'l 140 238 3 411 Other embedded derivatives 5 5 Other com mod it}'.
contracts 1 l 2 Total derivat ives not designated as hedges 168 255 423 7 Total derivative instruments 267 532 523 531 l Analysed by maturity: Less than 1 year 29 50 24 6 Between 1 and 5 years 31 233 110 1 94 More than 5 '.
ears 207 248 398 323 Total 267 531 532 523 Total net derivative instruments 264 9 2017 2015 Reconciliation to balance sheet Note US$m US$m - non-current assets 20 238 508 - current assets 20 29 24 - current liabilities 22 SO 6 - non-current liabilities 22 481 511 Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 264 9 {a The interest rate swc, ps cin: used lD convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further d tails, see note 22.
currency interest rate swaps are used ta convert 110n US dollcn denominated borrow[r, gs to either fi ed or floating US dollar hnrl'owings.
For further details see note 22. c The alumir1!u1t1 forward c:ontri:lds arE' E'l'ltered into to convert aluminium sales made at a filced price to market prke LME cash}.
e cuntracts were not design, ted as hedges.
d Aluminium embedded derivalfves {forward contr.
ads and options are contained within certair1 aluminium smeller elei:tricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduc:e lhe Group's mc1rgin e posurc to movements in the aluminium prir:::e. C a Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group's financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Group's cash equivalents and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest.
31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value Note US$m US$m US$m US$m Short-term borrowings 22 552 552 717 706 Medium and long-term borrowings 22 14,624 16,385 16.913 18.437 Borrowings with a carrying value of US$9.6 billion 2016: US$11.9 US$4.7 billion 2015, US$4.6 billion and are categorised as level 3 in billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$ I 0.9 billion the fair value hierarchy.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value 2016: US$12.9 billion and are categorised as level 1 in the fair value measured by discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable hierarchy.
Borrowings with a carrying value ofUS$4.1 billion 2016: market quoted yield and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value US$4.1 billion relate to project finance draw down with a fair value of hierarchy.
com I Aonual report 2017 C b Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2017: Not held 0 Level 1 Level 3, Total Level2 l at fair value Note USf m U5$m US$m US$m U5$m Assets Equity shares and quoted funds 20 136 88 3 45 rd Other investments, including loans l 20 1,152 1,037 88 27 Trade and other receivableslI 90 2,895 - 2, !1 85 ------- 4,273 1,125 90 91 2,967 Derivatives Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges 111 87 11 98 Section B Derivatives related to net debt Section B g {177 177 4,009 1,125 !76 2,967 m The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2016: Not held.
"Level 11'1 Level 2 bl Level 31, at fair value Total '-' "" :::::i -, Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Equity shares and quoted funds 20 156 94 3 59 Other investments, including loans dl 20 454 363 68 23 Trade and other receivables!!"
3 047 143 2,904 3,657 457 143 71 2,986 Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges 416 8 408 Section BJ Derivatives related to net debt Section B ol 408} 408 3,666 457 256 2.986 479 a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in acttve markets for idenitcal finc111cial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
{b Valuation is base cl on inputs that are observable for the financial instfuments which include quoted prices for similar instruments er identica1 :nstruments in markets which are not considered to be active, or inputs, either directly or indirectly based on observab e market data.
"c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inp"" s. d Other tnvesiments, including toans, comprise: cash deposits."
in fehi:ibilitation funds, government bonds, managed investment funds and royalty amou11ts.
The royalty receivables are valued based on an estimate of forward sales subject to the royalty agreement.
e Trade recei, ables includes provisionally priced receivables relating to sales contracts where selling price is determined after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisiona ly priced sales based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
At the end of December 2017, US$90 mi lion 2016: lJS$143 million ol provisional priced receivables were recognised.
f Level 3 derivative cnnsisl of derivatives embedded in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2018 and 2030 2016: 2017 and 2030 The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques.
Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value or US $98 million at 31 December 2017 2016: lJS$408 million are valued using significant unobservable inputs as the erm of the derivative tends beyond the forward curve for aluminium.
In valuing lhesc derivatives, aluminium prices are ftalllned beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of espiry of each contract.
The range of market prices are US$2,679 per metric tonne in 2028 to US$2,848 in 2030 2016: US$2,136 per metric tonne in 2027 to US$2,300 in 2030. g Interest rate and currency Interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads.
Currency interest rle swap valuations also use market quoted roreign e. change rates.
A discounted cash now approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the Inputs lo deh rmine fair value.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, or between Level 2 and Level 3 in the year ended 31 December 2017 or the year ended 3 1 December 2016.. r., , -' C z Annual reporl 2017 I riotinto.
com 161 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued C c Level 3 financial asseti and financial liabilities The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Group's Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities.
2017 2D16 Level 3 financial auets Level 3 financial assets and fi nan c ia l liil bilities and financial lia bilities US$m US$rn Opening balance 479 456 Currency translation adjustments 8 2 Total realised gains losses included in: - Consolidated sales revenue 1 1 - Net operating costs S 28 Total unrealised losses gains included in: - Consolidated sales revenue 17 - Net operating costs lI 508 11 Additions 43 Impairment 2 Disposals maturity of financial instruments 5 Transfers 6 Closing balance 7 479 Total losses gains for the year included in the income statement for assets and Liabilities held at year end 491 11 a Losses gains on embedded commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting which are included within net operating costs.
Sensitivity analysis in respect of Level 3 derivatives The values of forward contracts and options th.
it are determined using unobservable inputs are calculated using appropriate discounted cash flow and option model valuation techniques.
The most significant of these assumptions relate to long-term pricing wherein aluminium prices are flallined beyond the market forward curve and increased by a projected inflation after the ten year LME curv.
e. A ten per cent increase in long term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$41 million 31 December 2016: US$38 million decrease in carrying value.
A ten per cent decrease in long-term metal pricing assumptions would result in a US$22 million 31 December 2016: US$64 million increase in carrying value.
31 Contingencies and commitments 2017 2016 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding the Group's share of joint venture capital commitments With in 1 year 2,0S2 1,588 Between 1 and 3 years 531 433 Between 3 and 5 years 58 194 After 5 ears 15 Total 2,641 2,230 Group's share of joint venture capital commitments Within 1 ear 29 113 Total 29 113 Capital commitments include open purchase orders for managed is a joint venturer.
The Group immediately sells the purchased operations and expenditure on major projects authorised to date by products to third parties.
the Rio Tinto Investment Committee for non-m, maged operations.
On The Group, along with the other joint venturers, has certain commitments a legally enforceable basis capital commitments would be to provide emergency funding ie funding required to preserve the life or approximately US$0.5 billion 2016: US$0.6 billion as many of the assets of the company or to comply with applicable laws that may be contracts relating to the Group's projects have various cancellation required by Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. subject to approved clauses.
Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to At 31 December 2017, Minera Escondida Limitada held an undrawn joint ventures shareholder Line of credit for US$225 million Rio Tinto share: 31 The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion in December: US$225m.
excess of the Group's ownership interest of the output of Sohar Aluminium Company L, L. C. an aluminium smelter in which the Group 162 riotinto.
"rnm I Annual report 2017 0 peratl ng Leas es 'cl The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:, , 1 1 Adjusted I """" "" :, :, 2017 2016 rn u US m US$m 0 Within 1 year :."
9 397 331 Between 1 and 3 years 542 463 Between 3 and 5 years 313 314 After 5 years 593 512 1,845 1,720 Operating leases include leases of dry bulk vessels and offices as well as other property, plant and ecuipment.
The terms of lease p yments vary with a 0 significant proportion being fixed rate and including renewal options.
Leases for dry bulk vessels include costs for crewing services.
a The 2016 comparativellas been amendedtll exclude net obhgations ofUS$125 miUion related to contractual arrangements which do not qualify as leases in accordance with IAS I B. G These amounts have instead been Included as purchaseobli9ations, 0 r Purchase obligations The aggregate amount of future payment commitments under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: L ' 111 Adjusted I 2017 2016 US$m US$m Within 1 year 2,818 2,577 Between 1 and 2 years 1,664 1,711 Between 2 and 3 years 1,433 1,327 Between 3 and 4 years 1,318 1,207 Between 4 and 5 years 1,062 1, Q40 After 5 years 11,494 11,356 19789 19,318 a The 2016 comparatlVe has been amended to include certain contractual arrangements previously cat, gorised as operating lellses refer above.
Purchase obligations as disclosed above are agreements to purchase Purchases from joint arrangements or associates are included to the goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify extent that the quantity purchased is in excess of Rio Tinto's ownership all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be interest in the entity.
However, purchase obligations exclude contracted purchased or consumed: fixed, minimum or viiriable price provisions: purchases of bauxite, alumina and aluminium from joint arrangements and the approximate timing of the transactions.
and associates and contracted purchases of alumina from third parties as Purchase obligations for goods primarily relate to purchases of raw the purchases are made for commercial reasons and the Group is, overall, materials and consumables and purchase obligations for services a net seller of these commodities.
primarily relate to charges for use of infrastructure, commitments to In addition, as explained above, the Group has a commitment to purchase purchase power and freight contracts.
These goods and services are and market a portion in excess of the Group's ownership interest of the expected to be used in the business.
To the extent that this changes, a output of Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. provision for onerous obLigations may be made as described in note 1 i., -.
conn 163 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 31 Contingencies and commitments continued 2017 2016 US$m US$m Contingent liabilities subsidiaries and joint operations a b Indemnities and other performance guarantees 552 473 a Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual arrangements for example undertakings related to supplier agreements not provided for in the balance sheet, where the likelihood of the guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
b There were no material contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Contingent liabilities The Group is monitoring developments in relation to EU State Aid investigations including the EU Commissions State Aid investigation In October 2017, Rio Tinto announced that it had been notified by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission SEC that the SEC had into the UKs Controlled Foreign Company regime.
The Group does filed a complaint in relation to Rio Tintos disclosures and timing of not currently consider that any provision is required in relation to EU the impairment of Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
impairment was reflected in Rio Tintos 2012 year-end accounts.
The Guarantees by parent companies SEC alleges that Rio Tinto, a former chief executive, Tom Albanese, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have, jointly and severally, fully and the previous chief financial officer, Guy Elliott, committed and unconditionally guaranteed the following securities issued by the violations of the antifraud, reporting, books and records and internal following 100 per cent owned finance subsidiaries: US$5.8 billion 31 control provisions of the federal securities law by not accurately December 2016: US$8.3 billion Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited and disclosing the value of RTCM and not impairing it when Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds with maturity dates up to 2042: and published its 2011 year-end accounts in February 2012 or its interim US$2.1 billion 31 December 2016: US$1.9 billion on the European results in August 2012.
Rio Tinto believes that the SEC case is Debt Issuance Programme.
In addition, Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio unwarranted and that, when all the facts are considered by the court, Tinto Finance Limited have entered into facility arrangements for an or if necessary by a jury, the SECs claims will be rejected.
Rio Tinto aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion 31 December 2016: US$7.5 will defend the allegations vigorously.
The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Separately, but at the same time, Rio Tinto reached a settlement with Limited.
the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA in relation to the timing of Rio Tinto plc has provided a guarantee, known as the completion the impairment of RTCM.
The FCA determined that Rio Tinto should support undertaking CSU, in favour of the Oyu Tolgoi LLC project have carried out an impairment review in relation to RTCM for its 2012 finance lenders.
At 31 December 2017, US$4.3 billion of project interim results and, if it had done so, those results published in finance debt was outstanding under this facility 2016: US$4.3 August 2012 would have reflected the impairment it recorded six billion.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is jointly owned by Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC months later.
The FCA determined that Rio Tinto had breached the 34 per cent, which is controlled by the Government of Mongolia, and FCA's Disclosure and Transparency Rules and imposed a financial Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. 66 per cent, of which Rio Tinto owns 51 penalty on Rio Tinto of 27.4 million US$36.4 million.
The project finance has been raised for development of the to stress that the FCA made no findings of fraud, or of any systemic or underground mine and the CSU will terminate on the completion of widespread failure by Rio Tinto.
This separate FCA case is now closed.
the underground mine according to a set of completion tests set out The Australian Securities and Investments Commission is also in the project finance facility.
The Rio Tinto guarantee applies to the extent that Turquoise Hill In addition, Rio Tinto continues to co-operate fully with relevant Resources Ltd cannot satisfy Oyu Tolgoi LLCs project finance debt authorities in connection with their investigations in relation to servicing obligations under its own guarantee to the lenders, called contractual payments totalling US$10.5 million made to a consultant the sponsor debt service undertaking DSU.
Both the CSU and DSU who had provided advisory services in 2011 on the Simandou project contain a carve-out for certain political risk events.
Contingent assets The outcomes of these matters, and associated class actions that The Group has, from time to time, various insurance claims have been commenced on behalf of securities holders, remain outstanding with reinsurers.
At 31 December 2016 this included a uncertain, but they could ultimately expose the Group to material claim relating to the Manefay slide at Rio Tinto Kennecott in April financial cost.
The board is giving these matters its full and proper 2013.
Interim progress payments were received on this claim in 2013 attention and a dedicated board committee continues to monitor the and 2015: the final payment was received in January 2017. progress of these matters.
com Annual report 2017 32 Average number of employees Equity accounted units.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the average number of employees in Singapore was 434 2016, 262 and the average number of employees in India was 31 O 2016: 280.
Employee numbers, which represent the average for the year, include 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary companies.
Employee numbers for joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Group's interest under contractual agreements.
Average employee numbers include a part-year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part-time employees are included on a full-time-equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers, People employed by contractors are not included.
com 165 Notes to the 2 0 17 fi na nci a L state men ts continued 33 Principal subsidiaries At31 December 2017 Proportion Group NonCompany and country of incorporation Class of shares of class interest controlling oeeration Princieal activities held Interest % held!% % Australia Argyle Diamonds limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 Dampier Salt Limited Salt and gypsum Ordinary 68.36 58.36 31.64 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mjnir1g Ordinary 68.39 68.39 31.61 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 Queensland Coal Pty Limited lb Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: Ordinary 100 100 primary aluminium smelting Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd, Iron ore mining Class A 60 40 40} Class B 76.36 Brazil Alcan Alumina Ltda.
r, 1 Alumina production and bauxite Quota 100 100 m inln Canada Iron Ore Company of Ca11ada d Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common 58.72 58.72 41.28 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: high Common 100 100 purity iron :, nd steel Cliiss B preference 100 100 CAD 0.01 preferred 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: Common 100 100 aluminium smelting Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc, e Diamond mining and [:!recessing Common 100 100 Guinea 1 Simler Jerse:l Limited 11 Iron ore eroJect Ordin:, r 53 53 47 Madagascar QIT Madagascar Minerals 5A 191 Ilmenite mining Common 80 801 Investment 100 15 100J certificates Voting certificates 80 80 20 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd including Copper and gold mining Common 50,79 50.79 49.21 0 u Tol oi LLC lh Namibia Rossing Uranium Limited I Uranium mining B N$1 71.22 68.62 31.38 C N10c 70,59 South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Titanium dioxide high purity iron B Ordinary, ool Limited fjJ production B preference 74 26 100 J Parent Preference 100 Ric ards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B Ordinary U 100} B preference 100 74 26 Parent Preference 100 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation Copper and gold mining, smelting Common US$0.01 100 100 including Kennecott Utah Copper, and refining, land development and Kennecott Land and Kennecott exploration activities E ploration U. S. Borax Inc. of Mining, refining and marketing Common US$0.10 100 100 borate5 This list includes only those companies that have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
Refer to note 46 for a list of related undertakings.
com I Annual report 2017 The Group's principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Ria Tinto Limited.
a Robr River Mining Co Ply ltd which is 60 per cent owned by the Group holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates Robe River.
Norlh Mining Ltd which is wholly owned by the Group holds ai 35 per cent interest in Robe River.
Thrugh U1ese companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent shcire of the assi:ts, liabilitles revenues 1 and e penses of Robe River, with.
The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest ir, Robe River b Queensland Coal Pty limited is lhe main legal entity that holds the Group's interests in Hail Creek 82 per cent and Kestrel 80 per cent.
"These are unincorporated arrangements lh""t cHe not entities: the Group recognises its share of as."
si:ts, tiabilitics, reivenue-s and expenses relatinq to these arrangements.
stand Coal forms part or the Rjo Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
"{c Alcan Alumina Ltd a holds the Grrn.. Jp's 10 pE""r cent interest in."
ConsMcio fide Alumrnio Do Ma, ar, tiao, a joint operation in which the Group partie:ipatP.
s but is not a joint operator.
The Group rcrngnis['s its shaire of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
d IJ'on Ore Company af Canada is incorporated in the Unitod States of America, but operates in Canada.
e Diavik Diamond Mines {2012 Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Group's 60 per cenl interest in the Diavik Joint Venture, an unincorporated arrangement that is not an en lily.
Th Group recognises its share ot assets liabililie, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
1 f Simler Jersey limited, a company incorpora1ed in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 85 per cem interest in Simler S. A. lhe company that operates the Simandou mining project in Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 45.05 per cent indirect interest in Simler S. A.
These entities are conso idated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
g The Group's shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights: a further 5 prr cent economic interest is held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent.
The non-cuntrolling interests have a 15 per cent economic interest and 20 pe, cent of the total voting rights.
h The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Lld, which hOlds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC OT which is subsidiary ofTurquoise Hill Resources Ltd.
The Group theretore has a 33.5 per cent indjrect interest in OT.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd is incorporated in Canada but operates principally in Mongolia.
i The Group's shareholding in Rossing Uranium Limited entitles it to 35.57 per cent or the total voting rights: the non-contro!Ung interests hold 64.43 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rossing is consolidated by virtue of the Group's board control.
The Government of Namibia has the ability Io veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest or Namibia: this is considered ta be a protective right Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rossing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
U Additional classes of shores issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
The Group's total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary limited and Richards Bay Mining Prnprietary Limited is 74 per cent Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling i11terests that are material to the Group This summarised finoncial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis, It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries' financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
Iron Ore Iron Ore Energy Energy Company of Company of Reources of Resources of Turquoise Turquoise Canada HiU l Canada Australia Australia Hill I 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m usim US$m Revenue 1,867 1,324 157 193 940 1,203 ProfiV loss after tax 377 108 29 22 7 140 - attributable to non-controlling interests 156 44 9 2 49 37 -attributable to Rio Tinto 221 64 20} 5 71 103 Other com11rehensive income 144 56 4 2 Total comi:1rehensive incorne lass 521 164 29 7 26 142 Non-current assets 2,53S 2,31 S 57 58 9,008 7,969 Current assets 714 627 406 383 4,953 5,702 Current liabilities 449 348 128 96 504 316 Non-current liabilities 838 755 l 356 336 4,311 l 4.257 Net assets liilbilities 1,962 1,839 2t l 9 9,146 9,098 - attributable to non-controlling interests 809 759 2 7 3,982 4,073 - attributable to Ria Tinto 1,153 1,080 7 5,164 14 l 5,025 Cash flow from operations 840 302 2 18 295 387 Dividends 12aid to non-controlling interests 162 31 l a Turquoise Hill Resources ltd holds controlling interests in Oyu Tolgoi.
b Under the terms of the project finance facility held by Oyu Tolgai there are certain restrictions on the ability of Oyu Totgoi to make shareholder distributions.
"com 167 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries continued Other Other companies companies Robe River Robe River and and Mining Co Mining Co eliminations eliminations r, 1 Pty Ply Robe Riwer Robe River 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1,164 982 1,351 1,139 2,515 2,121 Profit after tax 617 482 637 517 1,254 999 - attributable to non-controlling interests 242 193 242 193 - attributable to Rio Tinto 375 289 637 517 1,012 806 Other com[, 1rehensive income loss 238 23 158 20 396 43 Total comprehensive income loss 855 459 795 497 1,650 956 Non-current assets 2,927 2,797 4,187 3,976 7,114 6,773 Current assets 11 1,453 1,122 571 801 2,024 1,923 Current liabilities 186 92 1,357 1,350 1,543 1.442 Non-current liabilities 752 666 {1,666 1,546 2,418 2,212 Net assets 3,442 3,161 1,735 1,881 5 177 5 042 - attributable to non-controlling interests 1,375 1,263 1,375 1,263 - attributable to Rio Tinto 2 067 1 898 1 735 1 881 3 802 3,779 Cash flow from operations dl 1,048 824 1,207 817 2,255 1,641 Dividends 11aid to non-controlling interests {230} 268 230 268} c ""Other companies and eliminations"" includes North Mining Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group which accounts for its interest in Robe River and goodwill of US$389 million 2016: US$360 million that arose on acquisition of the Group's interest in Robe River."
d The 2016 comparative has been adjusted lo more appropriately classify certain balances.
34 Principal joint operations Company and count, y of incorporation operation Principal activities Group Interest % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 Kestrel a Coal mining 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 Queensland Alumina Limited b, Alumina production 80 Infrastructure, corporate and mining d Pilbara Iron arrangement services New Zealand New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited bl 1, i Aluminium smelting 79.36 Canada Aluminerie Alouette Inc. Aluminium production 40 Indonesia Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 United States of America Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc m Aluminium smelting 50.2 This list includes only those Joint operations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
Refer t o note 46 for a list of rel.
The Group's joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
Although the Group has an 80 per cent interest in the Kestrel Joint Venture, decisions about activities that significantly affect lhe returns that are genrated require agreement or both parties to the Joint Venture Agreement.
giving rise to joint control.
b Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters limited and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement ot both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control c Queensland Alumina Limited.
New Zeal4lnd Aluminium Srnelkr'5 Limited and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. aire joint airraingcments thi3t are primarily desiQned far the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control, this indicates that the parties hae rights to substantia y aU the economic benefits of he ass.
"The liobilitios of the ""rrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the pairtieis: thts."
dependence indicates that the part ies in effect hc, fiveobligations for the Liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that oive rise to the classificaitian of these entities as joint operations.
d A n1.11t1ber of arrcmgements are in plau:e between the Australian Iron Ore operations mcmrJged by Rio Tinto which allow their respective assets to be operated as a single, integ, ated nlltwork across the Pilbara region.
n, e arrangements ar mc111c1ge-d through two wholly own.
: Pilbara Iron Company} Services Ply Ltd and Pilbaril Iron Pty Ltd.
In assessing the Pilbara Iron ar, angernerits it h s been concluded that they collectively constitute a joint operation on the basis that decisions about relevant activities require uni, nimous consent, the resulting efficiencies are shared between Rio Tinto and Robe River Iron Associates Robe Rive, and the parties fund alt of the cash flow requirements of Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd and Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd. e Under the terms of a contractual agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of production above specified levels until the end of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production ther arler under lhe Participation Agreement.
This date is subject to extension under certain conditions.
f Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. has a SO.
1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour, Inc. aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
com I Annual report 20 17 35 Principal joint ventures c, ---i -.
At 31 December 2017 r:o, -, r-: Class of Proportion Group Number of shares of class interest rlD Company and country of incorporallon operation Principal aclfvilies shares held held held % % { : :o Chile ---i Minera Escondida Limitada lJ Coppe r mining and refining 30 30 Oman Sohar Aluminium Co. LLC.
11 Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 This list includes only those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Group's principaljoint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 30 per cent Interest In Miner Escondida Umllada.
participant and management agreements provide for an Owners' Council whereby significanl commercial and operational decisions about 1he relevanl aclillilies ll al signHlcant y affect the returns that arc generated, n effect require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP B1UJton holders of a 57.5 per cent fnterest.
It is ll erefore determined that Rio Tinto has Joint control.
The year-end of M lnera Escondida Limltada rs 30 June.
Tile amounts included In the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are, however, based on accounts of Minera Escondida Llmltada that are coterminous wilh !hose of the Group.
b Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in Sohor Aluminium Co. L. L. C. decisions about relevant acUvities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has joint control Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group, , , This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
"It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures' financial "" u ::::i statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from -: Rio Tinto."
"-c L'-' L. C Assets and liabilities above include: S""?"
Cash and cash equivalents 460 443 95 20 1 Current financjal liabilities Cc 330 467 130 100} '.
C I : ' ty Non-current financial liabilities, 1 2,840 2,643 1, 120 WQ.
L f7 Dividends received from joint venture Rio Tinto share 1, 780 210 1:'.
"er, Reconciliation of the above amounts to the investment recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position GrouQ interest 30% 30% 20% 20% Net assets 10,230 11,689 2,060 1,980 Group's ownership interest 3,069 3,507 412 396 Other adjustments 4 3 2 3 l :, - 1 : Car ing value of Grou12's interest 3,073 3,504 409 394 l: ---i a In addition to its ""lnveslmenl In equity accounted units"", the Group recognises deferred la liabilities of lJS$500 million 2016: US$579 million relating o aM on unremllted earnings of equity accounted units."
b Under covenants stipulated in the agreement to Sohar Aluminium's secured loan facilities, Sohar Aluminium is currently restricted from making any shareholder distributions until 2021 unless a specified amount of the loan facilities is funded.
c The 2016 comparative has been adjusted to more appropriately classify certain balances. '
com 169 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 36 Principal associates At 31 December 2017 Proportion Group Number of Class of of class interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held held %} % Australia Boyne Smelters Limited I Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brazil 25,000,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12 Mineratao Rio do Norte S. A. M Bauxite mining 47,000,000.000 Preferred 11.75 United States of America Halco Mining Inc c 4,500 Common 45 45 This list includes only those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Group's principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto pie or Rio Tinto Limited.
a The parties that collectively control Boyne Smelters Limited do so through decision, that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by, everal combinations of lhe parties, Although each combination requires Rio Tinto's approval, this is not joint control as defined unoer IFRS 11.
Riu Tin lo is lherefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
b Although lhe Group holds only 12 per cent of Minera, ao Rio do Norte S. A. it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant inf uence.
c Hal co Mining Inc has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bausiles fide Guinee, a bausite mine, the core assets of which are localed in Guinea.
Summary information for assotiates that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in t he associate's financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters 1 11 Limited Limited ' 2017 2016 m us us m Revenue Profit after tax 5 12 Other comprehensive income loss lb 56 4 Total comprehensive income 61 8 Non-current assets 1,468 1,465 Current assets 88 66 Current liabilities 99 121 Non-current liabilities 996 987 Net assets 461 423 a Boyne Smelle:rs Limit.
such it is deptir1rJ11:1rit oil its artkipahts fotfunclir, g which is provided through cash c. alls.
"t:t""rtair1 prepayments to Boynefnr foll proceMing r::if alumina."
!d to Group opf!ratlng costs.
as processing takes p ce 11 1 b 0ther comprehensive incomi:, loss. '
is net of amounts recognised by subsidiatiE:s ir, relalioh lo lUasi equity Loans, Group interest 59.4% 59.4% Net assets 461 423 Group's ownership interest 274 251 Loans to equity accounted units 159 163 Carrying value of Group's interest 433 414 Summary informcition for joint ventures and associates that are not Individually material to the Group Joint Joint ventures ventures Associates Associates 2017 2016 2016 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m Carrying value of Group's interest 571 707 Profit after tax 25 36 Other comprehensive income loss 14 13 Total comprehensive income 39 49 170 riotinto.
com I Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses Acquisitions BCL as it was determined that in accordance with IFRS, as defined in There were no material acquisitions during the years ended 31 note 1, that the Group does not control the relevant activities, being December 2017, 2016 and 2015. the mining of copper at the Panguna mine, which was brought to a halt by militant activity in 1989.
The carrying value had previously been fully impaired and therefore the transfer resulted in no financial In May 2017, the Groups subsidiary, Simfer Jersey Limited Rio Tinto share: 53 per cent purchased a 4.25 per cent interest in Simfer SA impact for the year ended 31 December 2016. from International Finance Corporation IFC for US$194 million in On 20 July 2016, a tranche of 7.5 per cent non-contributory shares in accordance with a put option exercised by IFC.
Consequently, the Simfer S. A. was transferred free of charge to the Government of Groups share of Simfer SA increased from 42.80 per cent to 45.05 Guinea as per the terms of the Simandou project agreement signed in per cent.
2014, further diluting the ownership percentage of Rio Tinto and its 2017 disposals partners in the project.
Under the agreement, a second tranche On 1 September 2017, Rio Tinto disposed of its 100 per cent comprising 10 per cent Ordinary Contributory Shares may be acquired at any time for a pro rata share of historical mining cost.
The shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited for total consideration of US$2.69 billion before working remaining two tranches of 5 per cent ordinary contributing shares may be acquired by the Government of Guinea at market value at any capital adjustments.
The US$2.69 billion comprises US$2.45 billion in cash paid on the closing date and a further US$240 million of time after 22 April 2026 and 22 April 2031 respectively.
During 2017, US$110 On 2 September 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its interest in Zululand million has been received: total net cash proceeds received in 2017, Anthracite Colliery.
net of working capital adjustments, transaction costs and cash transferred, were US$2.54 billion.
Rio Tinto expects to receive the On 23 November 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its 100 per cent interest remaining US$130 million of unconditional guaranteed royalty in Lochaber to SIMEC for US$410 million before finalisation of closing payments between 2018 and 2021. adjustments and transaction costs of which US$224 million was received in December 2016.
The second and final instalment of funds 2016 disposals was received during April 2017.
On 1 March 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla Joint Venture to New Hope Corporation Limited for US$616.7 2015 disposals million before finalisation of net debt and working capital On 23 April 2015, Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd completed the block adjustments.
sale of 48.7 million common shares in SouthGobi Resources Ltd and with further divestments has reduced its interest to below 20 per On 31 March 2016, Rio Tinto disposed of its 100 per cent interest in cent.
As at 31 December 2015 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltds interest Carbone Savoie to Alandia Industries.
in SouthGobi Resources Ltd was no longer consolidated as a Rio Tinto transferred its 53.83 per cent shareholding in Bougainville subsidiary and had been classified as an available for sale investment.
Copper Limited BCL to Equity Trustees Limited independent On 17 June 2015, Rio Tinto disposed of its 77.8 per cent interest in trustee on 30 June 2016 for nil consideration.
Equity Trustees Murowa Diamonds and 50 per cent interest in Sengwa Colliery Ltd Limited subsequently distributed the shares in accordance with the Sengwa to RZ Murowa Holdings Limited.
trust deed to nominees of each of the Autonomous Bougainville Government 36.4 per cent and the Independent State of Papua New Rio Tinto completed the sale of ECL to Fives on 9 July 2015 and the Guinea 17.4 per cent such that each party now controls an equal sale of Alesa to Groupe Reel on 24 November 2015. share of BCL 36.4 per cent.
The Group did not previously consolidate 38 Directors and key management remuneration Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: 2017 2016 2015 US$000 US$000 US$000 Emoluments 8,339 9,186 10,590 Long-term incentive plans 3,071 2,118 4,685 13,024 12,257 12,708 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 135 69 52 Gains made on exercise of share options - -1 The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee local currency at the average exchange rate for the year with the comprises the executive directors, product group chief executive exception of bonus payments which, together with amounts payable officers and Group executives.
under long-term incentive plans, have been translated at the year-end The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its rate.
directors was US$12,624,000 2016: US$10,630,000: 2015: Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, US$6,385,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration Report, contribution plans was US$135,000 2016: US$69,000: 2015: including tables 1 to 3, on pages 70 to 105.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$535,000 2016: US$1,696,000: 2015: US$6,375,000.
The aggregate pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$nil 2016: US$nil: 2015: US$nil.
During 2017, no director 2016: one: 2015: one accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and two directors 2016: two: 2015: one accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
com 171 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 38 Directors' and key management remuneration continued Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under IFRS, as defined in note 1, of the Group's key management.
including directors, was as follows: 2017 2016 2015 USS'OOO US$'000 US$'000 Short-term employee benefits and costs 23,095 22,269 25,616 Post-employment benefits 415 3,461 1,049 Employment termination benefits 2,682 Share-based payments 8,033 15,806 17,566 31,543 44,218 44,231 The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key social security and accident premiums in Canada, the UK and US and management is shown in the Remuneration report, including tables 1 payroll taxes in Australia paid by the employer as a direct additional to 3 on pages 70 to 105. cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2, 122,000 2016: U S$2,295,000: 2015: US$2,320,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in table 1 of the Remuneration Report.
39 Auditors' remuneration 2017 2016 2015 US$m US$m US$m Group Auditors' remuneration ll Audit of the company 6.2 4.5 4.3 Audit of subsidiaries 8.1 9.0 10.1 Total audit 14.3 13.5 14.4 Audit related assurance service 1.0 0.9 0.9 Other assu ranee services 11 1 2.3 0.6 0.9 Total assurance services 3.3 1.5 1.8 Tax compliance 1,1 0.3 0.5 0.5 Tax advisory services r, J 0.2 0.1 0.4 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above - services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.2 Other non-audit services not covered above 0.7 1.8 1.1 Total non-audit services 4.5 3.9 4.0 Total Group Auditors' remuneration 18.8 17.4 18.4 Audit fees payable to other accounting firms Audit of the financial statements of the Group's subsidiaries 2.0 2.1 1.9 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.3 0.2 0.5 Total audit fees payable to other accounting firms 2.5 2.4 2.1 a The remuneration payable to PwC.
the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the reloted fees, to ensure that independence is maintoined.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Group's share of the payments made by joint operations.
Non-audit services arise Largely from oissurance and or regulation related work.
b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements and sustainability assurance.
11 11 c Taxation services includes ta:x compliance c1nd advisory services.
-eview of J'eturns for carporation incame sales and excise taMes.
Tax 1 1 advisory services inc:lud@ advii::e on non-recurring acqui-sition and disposals, advice on hansfer prking nd advice on emptayee global mobility.
com I Annual report 2017 40 Related-party transactions Information about material related-party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: r, .
Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
Information relating to joint operations can be found in note, .
A, Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchasing of bauxite and aluminium.
Sales relate largely to sales of alumina to equity accounted units for smelting into aluminium.
2017 2016 2015 Income statement items Note US$m VS$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 993 1,216 1,249 Sales to equity accounted units 210 248 307 C -.
": Cash flow statement items US$m VS$m US$m """"?"
Dividends from eQu ity accounted units 817 253 210 7 Net funding of eguity 1ccounted units 3 12 11 Jl.
:J u Balance sheet Items US$m US$m US$m 1 Investments in equity accounted units M 15 4,486 5,019 4,941 Loans to equity accounted units 20 39 39 42 Loans from equity accounted units 22 31 49 37 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units 'J 18 299 298 315 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units 25 175 243 231 a Investments in equity accounte-d units include quasi equity loans.
Further information about investments i11 equity Qccounteid units is set out in notes 35 and 36. b This inclodes prepayments of tolling charges.
Pension funds Information relating to pension fund arrangements is set out in note 44.
Directors and key management Details of directors' and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 1 OS.
41 Exchange rates in US$ The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2017 financial statements were: Full- !ear average Year-end 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Sterling 1.29 1.35 1.53 1.34 1.22 1.48 Australian dollar 0.77 0.74 0.75 0.78 0.72 0.73 Canadian dollar 0.77 0.75 0.78 0.79 0.74 0.72 Euro 1.13 1.11 1.1 1 1.20 1.05 1.09 South African rand 0.075 0.068 0.079 0.081 0.073 0.054 programmes during 2018 have been cancelled and announcement s 42 Events after the balance sheet date have been made to the relevant stock exchanges.
On 10 January 2018, the Group announced it had received a binding On 26 February 201 B, the Group announced it had received a binding offer from Liberty House to acquire the Group's Aluminium Dunkerque offer from Hydro to acquire its aluminium assets in Northern Europe smelter in northern France for US$500 million, subject to final for US$345 million, subject to final adjustments.
In accordance with French law, the Group will launch a the Group's ISAL smelter in Iceland, its 53.3 per cent share in consultation process with employees, relevant European works includes the Aluchemie anode plant in the Netherlands and its 50 per cent councils and other stakeholders in relation to the bid.
Subject to share in the Alufluor aluminium fluoride plant in Sweden.
In satisfactory completion of these consultations, the Group expects to accordance with the applicable laws, the Group will launch a complete the sale of Aluminium Dunkerque in the second quarter of with employees, relevant European works 2018.
As at 31 December 2017 Rio Tinto's interest in the Aluminium consultation process councils and other stakeholders.
Subject to satisfactory complet ion of Dunkerque smelter was classified as held for sale.
-4 these consultations and certain other conditions, t he Group expects to On 7 February 2018, the Group announced an on-market share buy conclude the sale in the second quarter of 2018. back programme of US$1.
D billion Rio Tinto plc shares: this is in Except as disclosed above, no significant events were identified after addition to US$1.925 billion under the US$2.5 billion programme the balance sheet date.
announced on 21 September 2017, which started on 27 December 2017.
Rio Tinto plc shares that have been bought back under these G z Annual report 2017 I riotinlo.
com 173 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 43 Share-based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a number of share-based incentive plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
The charge that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based incentive plans, and the related liability for cashsettled plans, is set out in the table below.
Liability at the Charge recognised for the year end of the year 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Equity-settled plans 88 116 128 - - Cash-settled plans 3 -- 15 1 Total 116 128 1 91 15 The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: per cent per annum of outstanding awards 2016: seven per cent per annum.
Share Savings Plans Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for Bonus Deferral Plans accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was The Bonus Deferral Plans were introduced in 2009 for the mandatory estimated using a lattice-based option valuation model, including deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive directors and allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
product group executives and 25 per cent of the bonuses for other executives.
Awards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as these plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plans in 2012.
All The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions charges have been incurred as the remaining unvested awards vested being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including during 2017.
No outstanding awards remain under these plans.
the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to Share Option Plans equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of Awards are no longer granted under the Share Option Plans and all each award on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the day charges have been incurred as the remaining awards all vested before of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
For 2017, although there remain outstanding vested options under these awards granted in 2017 this adjustment is negligible and therefore plans.
the fair value of each award is equal to the share price on the day of grant.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at three per cent per UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan annum of outstanding awards 2016: three per cent per annum.
The fair values of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto plc are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
Global Employee Share Plans These awards are settled in equity.
The Global Employee Share Plans were introduced in 2012.
The Companies provide matching shares for each investment share Performance Share Plans purchased by a participant.
The vesting of these matching awards is Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their dependent on service conditions being met.
These awards are settled awards on vesting and therefore the awards are accounted for in in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled sharevesting.
The fair value of each matching share on the day of grant is based payment transactions, including the dividends accumulated equal to the share price on the date of purchase less a deduction of 15 from date of award to vesting.
per cent for cancellations caused by employees electing to withdraw For the parts of awards with Total Shareholder Return TSR their investment shares before vesting of their matching shares.
performance conditions, the fair value of the awards was calculated Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at five per cent per annum of using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR outstanding awards 2016: five per cent per annum.
One-third of the awards granted since 2013 are subject to an earnings performance target relative to ten global mining comparators.
As this is a non-market related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors expectations for the proportion vesting.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards 2016: five per cent per annum.
Management Share Plans The Management Share Plans were introduced in 2007 and readopted in 2017 to provide conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity, including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to the share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
For awards granted in 2017 this adjustment is negligible and therefore the fair value of each award is equal to the share price on the day of grant.
Forfeitures prior to vesting are assumed at seven 174 174 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 Summary of options outstanding and exercisable A summary of the status of the Companies' equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2017 is presented below.
Weighted Weighted Aggregate average average intrinsic exercise remaining value price per contractual 2017 Options outstanding and exercisable at 31 December 2017 Number option A$ life Years US$m Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan exercise prjce 16 - 43 164,119 32 2.56 2 24,647 33 1.21 1 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan exercise price A $33 188,766 3 As at 31 December 2017 there were no options outstanding under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
As at 31 December 2016 there were 567,598 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$3 million.
The Management Share Plans, Petiormance Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Global Employee Share Plans and UK Share Plan together represent 100 per cent 201 5: 100 per cent of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2017.
S1 384,013 24.61 84,284 40.79 305,135 44.71 Transfers from egult to cash-settled 276,722 40.11 Non-vested shares at 31 December 3,555,274 20.47 2,883,053 18.27 1,609,154 40.13 1,590,957 37.52 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average share average share price share price price share price 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2017 2016 2016 Number Number E Number A$ Number A$ Vested awards settled in shares during the year including dividend shares applied on vesting 188,383 31.04 368,623 19.08 73,311 63.09 284,507 42.99 Vested awards settled in cash during the year including dividend shares a22Lied on vesting 486 19.00 5,010 62.81 847 43.47 a} In 2017, an agreemEmt was rei C'hed between lhe Group and a former director to sett e any of their futute vested awards in cash rather thah t qUity.
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 26,590 Rio Tinto plc and 276,722 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2017 2016: 22,010 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2017 was US$9 million 2016: less than US$1 million.
com 175 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 43 Share-based payments continued Manageml!nt Share Plans, Bonus Deferral Plans, Global Employee Share Plans 11nd UK Share Plan combined Rio Tinto le awardsll Rio Tinto Limited awards Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average fair average fair average fair average fair v, Lue at value at value at value at grant grant date gr.
10 332,010 48.69 - UK Share Plan 11.120 34.56 21,082 21.92 a Awards of Rio Tinto American Depository Receipts AORs} under the Gtobal Employee Share Plan are included within the totals for Rio Tinto plc awards for he purpose of these tables In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 33,443 Ria Tinto pk and 87,019 Rio Tinto Limited cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2017 2016: 34,517 Rio Tinto plc and 15,239 Rio Tinto limited cash-settled awards outstanding.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2017 was US$6 million 2016: less than US$1 million.
44 Post-retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post-retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contriout ion and so me are defined oenefit, with.
issets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post-retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Group's liabilities for post-retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend on the level of future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit payments.
Uncertainty in :ash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over t he investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Group's direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed t o adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined Pension plans benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution The majority of the Group's defined benefit pension obligations are in arrangements instead.
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
For In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final unionised employees, some plans remain open.
average pay and are closed to new entrants.
Benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically The Group does not usually participate in multi-employer plans in either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year which the risks are shared with other companies using those plans.
Most of these plans have been closed to new entrants.
New The Group's participation in such plans is immaterial and employees join arrangements which are defined contribution from the consequently no detailed disclosures are provided in this note.
com I Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report and operations Additional information Financial statements Groups perspective, with any required additional funding being benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
The plans are subject to the regulatory defined benefit sections are closed to new entrants.
requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the relevant provinces and territories predominantly Quebec.
Pension Committees The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is which are included in the figures below.
compliant with the relevant regulations.
The Pension Committees Post-retirement healthcare plans generally have a number of members appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
In some cases there is also Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, an independent Committee member.
provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These final pay and are closed to new members.
New employees are arrangements are generally unfunded, and are included in the figures admitted to defined contribution sections.
The plans are subject to the below.
regulatory requirements that apply to UK pension plans.
Trustees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is Plan assets compliant with UK regulations.
The trustee board governing the main The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a UK plans has a number of directors appointed by the sponsor, a diversified range of equities, bonds and property.
Consequently, the number appointed by the plan participants and an independent funding level of the pension plans is affected by movements in the trustee director.
level of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates.
The Group monitors its exposure to changes in interest rates and equity A number of defined benefit pension plans are sponsored by the US markets and also measures its balance sheet pension risk using a entities.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average value at risk approach.
These measures are considered when deciding pay and closed to new entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees whether significant changes in investment strategy are required.
are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary Asset-liability studies are conducted on a periodic basis for the main amount per year of service and are closed to new entrants.
New pension plans to determine the optimal investment mix bearing in employees are admitted to defined contribution plans.
A Benefits mind the Groups tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local Governance Committee is responsible for ensuring that the plans are sponsor companies and the views of the pension committees and compliant with US regulations.
Members of that Committee are trustee boards who are legally responsible for the investments of the appointed by the sponsor.
In Canada, the UK and Switzerland, the Group works with the trustees to ensure that the investment policy adopted is consistent In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, Germany with the Groups tolerance for risk.
In the US the Group has direct and France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and provides control over the investment policy, subject to local investment benefits linked to final average pay.
The Swiss plan is overseen by a regulations.
foundation board which is responsible for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss regulations.
Foundation board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees and by retirees.
In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the balance sheet date were: 2017 2016 Equities 32.4% 36.8% Quoted 28.6% 32.5% Private 3.8% 4.3% Bonds 53.2% 47.9% Government fixed income 11.3% 14.3% Government inflation-linked 13.1% 12.0% Corporate and other publicly quoted 23.5% 22.3% Private 2.3% 2.3% Property 11.2% 11.0% Quoted property funds 5.8% 5.8% Unquoted property funds 5.4% 5.2% Qualifying insurance policies 0.2% 0.6% Cash & other 3.0% 3.7% 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are managed on a day-to-day basis by external The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups properties.
securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees The holdings of cash & other are predominantly cash and short-term and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities money market instruments.
within the plans is US$13 million 2016: US$16 million.
Investments in private equity, private debt, and property are less The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or liquid than the other investment classes listed above and therefore segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
the Groups investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level These equity portfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic that does not endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt pension plans.
However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge of the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond quoted bonds are usually of investment grade.
Private debt is mainly managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings in North America.
of bonds but more efficiently.
com 177 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 44 Post-retirement benefits continued Maturity of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: 2017 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Proportion relating to current employees 20% 16% 20% 21% 22% Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 12% 1% 11% 12% 11% Proportion relating to retirees 68% 83% 69% 67% 67% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Average duration of obligations years 14,0 12.7 13.9 14.3 13.4 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: 2017 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Canada 49% 41% 49% 46% 44% UK 29% 2% 27% 27% 29% us 12% 54% 14% 16% 15% Switzerland 5% 0% 5% 5% 6% Eurozone 3% 0% 3% 4% 4% Other 2% 3% 2% 2% 2% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Total expense recognised in the income statement 2017 2016 2015 Pension other Total Total Total benefits benefits % US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 146 9 155 158 184 Past service income 1 3 4 144 Curtailment gains 1 1 5 13 Settlement gains 1 1 11 Net interest on net defined benefit liability 45 34 79 90 113 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 17 22 17 21 Total defined benefit expense 205 265 40 245 150 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 253 2 255 257 289 Total expense recognised in the income statement 458 42 500 522 439 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within 2015 relate mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested net operating costs.
No amounts have been excluded from underlying participants were offered a one-time lump sum payment in place of earnings in 2017, 2016 or 2015. their future pension payments.
The past service income in 201 5 relates to design changes in Canada and to changes to post The curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to retirement medical plans in the US.
headcount reductions at various operations.
The settlement gains in Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 2017 2016 2015 USSm US$m US$m Actuarial losses gains 855 1,120 548 Return on assets net of interest on assets 894 1,031 79 Loss on application of asset ceiling 33 1 8 Total gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 6 61 9 90 Amounts recognised in the balance sheet The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: 2017 2016 Pension Total Total benefits Other benefits USSm US$m Total fair value of plan assets 15,257 15,257 13,749 Present value of obligations - funded 16,199 16,199 14,504 Present value of obligations - unfunded 448 1,446 1,724 998 Present value of obligationstotal 16,647 998 17,645 16,228 Effect of asset ceiling 111 111 63 Net deficit to be shown in the balance sheet 1,501 998 2,499 2,542 Comprising: - Deficits 2,372 998 3,370 3,167 - Surpluses 871 871 625 Net deficits on pension plans 1,501 1,501 1,616 Unfunded post-retirement healthcare obligation 998 926 998} 178 riotinto, com I Annual reporl 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report and operations Additional information Financial statements The surplus amounts shown above are included in the balance sheet minimum level is prescribed by legislation.
In the UK and Switzerland as Trade and other receivables.
See note 18. the minimum is negotiated with the local trustee or foundation in accordance with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators.
Deficits are shown in the balance sheet within Provisions including In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the post-retirement benefits.
Group takes into account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax situation of the local sponsoring entity and any Funding policy and contributions to plans strategic advantage that the Group might obtain by accelerating The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a contributions.
The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the healthcare arrangements.
minimum level required in each country.
In Canada and the US the 2017 2016 2015 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Contributions to defined benefit plans 349 55 404 464 328 Contributions to defined contribution plans 241 2 243 240 272 Contributions to industry-wide plans 12 - 12 17 17 Total 602 57 659 721 617 Contributions to defined benefit pension plans are kept under regular Movements in the net defined benefit liability review and actual contributions will be determined in line with the A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is Groups wider financing strategy, taking into account relevant shown in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more minimum funding requirements.
As contributions to many plans are detailed analysis of the movements in the present value of the reviewed on at least an annual basis, the contributions for 2018 and obligations, the fair value of assets and the effect of the asset ceiling.
subsequent years cannot be determined precisely in advance.
Most of The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the Groups largest pension funds are fully funded on their local the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who funding basis and do not require long-term funding commitments at participate in the plans and who are employed in associates and joint present.
Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2018 are arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and estimated to be around US$210 million but may be higher or lower losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in than this depending on the evolution of financial markets and respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide voluntary funding decisions taken by the Group.
Contributions for plans are excluded from the movements below.
subsequent years are expected to be at similar levels.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit payments net of participant contributions.
The Groups contributions in 2018 are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2017.
com 179 Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 44 Postretirement benefits continued 2017 2016 Pension Total Total benefits Olher benefits US$m US$m Change in the net defined benefit liability Net defined benefit liability at the start of the year 1,616 926 2,542 2,530 Amounts recognised in Income 205 40 245 265 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income 62 56 6 90 Employer contributions 349 55 404 464 Arrangements divested 13 13 8 Currency exchange rate loss 104 31 135 1 13 Net defined benefit liability at the end of the year 1,501 998 2,499 2,542 2017 2016 Pension Tola Total benefits Other benefits USSm US$m Change in present value of obligation Present value of obligation at the start of the year 15,302 926 16,228 16,123 Current employer service costs 146 9 155 158 Past service income 1 3 4 Curtailments 1 1 5 Settlements 307 307 Interest on obligation 498 34 532 577 Contributions by plan participants 23 23 23 Benefits paid 894 55 949 967 Experience loss gain 2 9 7 139 Changes in financial assumptions loss 678 40 718 1,187 Changes in demographic assumptions loss {119 25 144 72 Arrangements divested 13 13 86 Currency exchange rate loss gain 1,095 31 1,126 715 Present value of obligation at the end of the year 16,647 998 17,645 16,228 2017 2016 Pension Total Total benefits Other benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 13,749 13,749 13,642 Settlements 306 306 Interest on assets 459 459 492 Contributions by plan participants 23 23 23 Contributions by employer 349 55 404 464 Benefits paid 894 55 949 967 Non-investment expenses 17 17 22 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 894 894 1,031 Arrangements divested 94 Currency exchange rate gain loss 1,000 1,000 820 Fe ir value of plan assets at the end or the year 15,257 15,257 13,749 2017 2016 Pension Tot.
l Total benefits Other benefits US$m US$m Change in the effect of the a55et ceiling Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year 63 63 49 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 6 6 5 Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling 33 33 1 Currency exchange rate loss 9 9 8 Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year 111 1 11 63 Most of the settlement amounts shown above relate to the US, where whether a refund of surplus may be available.
In considering whether assets and obligations for some pensions in payment were transferred any refund of surplus is available the Group considers t he powers of to an insurance company.
trustee boards and similar bodies to augment benefits or wind up a plan.
Where such powers are unilateral.
the Group does not consider a In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the refund to be available ol the end of the life of a plan.
Where the plan Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules rules and legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of specific to each pension plan.
The calculation takes into account any surplus, the asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the minimum funding requirements that may be applicable to the plan, case that a refund will only be available many years in the future.
"whether any reduction in future Group contributions is available, and 180 riotint o. com I Annual report 2017 Main assumptions rates per annum v: i The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.... ""."
:- Canada UK us Switzerland Eurozone :.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2017 was 2.1 per cent 2016: 2,2 per cent.
The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which Sensitivity are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate, 3.6 per The values reported for the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to cent 2015: 3.
9 per cent : medical trend rate, 9.8 per cent reducing to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payment s 4.
7 per cent by the year 2026 broadly on a straight-line basis 2016: and discounting those payments.
In order to estimate the sensitivity 9.1 per cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2025 : claims costs of the obligations to changes in assumptions, we calculate what the based on individual company experience.
obligations would be if we were to make small changes to each of the key assumptions in isolation.
The difference between this figure and For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post the figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in the sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
The results of t his longevity.
The mortality tables used imply that a man aged 60 at the sensitivity analysis are summarised in the table below.
Note that this balance sheet date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of approach is valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less 27 years 2016: 25 years and that a man aged 60 in 2037 would have accurate for larger changes in the assumptions.
The sensitivity to a weighted average expected future lifetime of 28 years 2016: 28 inflation includes the impact on pension increases, which are years.
generally linked to inflation where they are granted.
2-017 20f 6 Approximate Approximate In obUgaUons increase decrease increase decrease in obligations Pensions Other Pensions Other Assum[!tlon Chan9e In assum[!tion US$m US$m USSm US$m Discount rate Increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,091 59 1,031 57 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,169 63 1,107 61 Inflation Increase of 0.5 percentage points 579 20 536 19 Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 550 18 507 17.
"'i'""- Salary increases of 0.5 percentage points Increase 74 1 77 3, 2:::::: co Decrease of 0.5 percentage points 72 1 75 2 0 :l n '::::: Demographic - allowance for Participants assumed to have the mortality... ""1 509 20 481 20 future impro ements in """"J rates of individuals who are one year older longevity 6, E. 1:: :::::, Participants assumed to have the mortality 509 20 481 20 1: rates of individuals who are one year younger cc Medical costs trend rates Increase of 1.0 percentage points 38 37 Decrease of 1."
com 181 Notes to the 2 0 17 financial statements continued 45 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 2017 2016 As at 31 December A$m A$m Assets Current assets 11,914 8,041 Non-current assets 7954 10,758 Total assets 19868 18,799 Liabilities Current liabilities 1,258 C7A48 Non-current liabilities 35 4,81 4 Total liabilities 7,483 6,082 Net assets 12 385 12,71 7 Shareholders' equity Share capital 3,893 4,004 0th er reserves 420 413 Retained earnings 8,072 8,300 Total.
equity 12,385 12,717 Profit of the parent company 9,688 4,452 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 9,688 4,452 Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited has guaranteed other external debt held by Rio Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences Tinto Group entities which totalled A$0.1 billion at 31 December 2017 between AAS and IFRS as defined in note 1.
31 December 2016: A$0.1 billion and provided guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts which were in a liability position of Rio Tinto Limited guarantees A$48 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2015: A$1 million.
Rio Tinto Limited pro lides a number of guarantees in respect of Group companies.
In addition, Rio Tinto Limited has provided a guarantee of all obligations, including contingent obligations, of Rio Tinto Finance Rio Tinto pie and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary.
Group's external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto pie and Rio Tinto Limit ed totalled A$10.2 billion at 31 December 2017 31 December 2015: issued deed poll guarantees by which eoch company guaranteed A$14.1 billion : in addition these entities also jointly guarantee the contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the Group's undrawn credit facility which was A$9.5 billion at 31 other.
com I Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information 46 Related undertakings In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006, disclosed below is a full list of related undertakings of the Group.
Related undertakings include subsidiaries, associated undertakings, and significant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary companies.
The registered office address, country of incorporation, classes of shares and the effective percentage of equity owned by the Group calculated by reference to voting rights, is disclosed as at 31 December 2017.
The definition of a subsidiary undertaking in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 is different from the definition under IFRS.
As a result, the related undertakings included within this list may not be the same as the related undertakings consolidated in the Group IFRS financial statements.
Unless otherwise disclosed, all undertakings with an effective equity holding of greater than 50% are considered subsidiary undertakings for the purpose of this note.
Refer to notes 33-36 for further information on accounting policies, basis of consolidation, principal subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures and associates.
An explanation of the dual listed companies structure of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited can be found on pages 250 to 251.
For completeness, the effective ownership by the Group relates to effective holdings by both entities either together or individually.
Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address 10029734 Canada Inc. : Canada CAD$1.00 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Common shares 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD$1.00 100 Preferred shares 1043802 Ontario Ltd: Canada CAD 100 100 66 Wellington Street West, Suite 4700, Toronto Ordinary shares Dominion Bank Tower, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada 1109723 B. C. Ltd. CAD 100 100 1800 - 510 West Georgia Street, Vancouver BC Common shares V6B 0M3, Canada 46106 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Common shares Canada 46117 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 Common shares 200-204 Lambert Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada CAD 100 100 Preferred shares 535630 YUKON INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 c o Macdonald & Company, 200-204 Lambert Common shares Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 3T2, Canada CAD 100 100 Preferred shares 7999674 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada 9230556 CANADA INC. : Canada CAD 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Common shares 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD 100 Preferred shares 9539549 CANADA INC. : Canada US$ 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan Alumina Ltda.
: Brazil BRL1.00 Quota 100 100 Avenida Engenheiro Emiliano Macieira, 1km 18, shares Pedrinhas, Sao Luis, MA, 65095-603, Brazil Alcan Asia Limited: Hong Kong HKD Ordinary shares 100 100 Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong Alcan Betriebsund 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany  GmbH: Germany Ordinary shares Alcan Chemicals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Alcan Composites Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL0.01 100 100 Avenida das Naes Unidas, 10.989, 14th floor, Ordinary shares Suite 141, So Paulo, 04578-000, Brazil Alcan Corporation: United States US$ 0.01 100 100 CSC, 211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX Ordinary shares 78701-3218, United States Alcan Farms Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Alcan Finances USA LLC: United States US$1,000.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Ordinary shares USA Alcan Gove Development Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Gove Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Class B shares Alcan Gove Superannuation Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares 183 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 183 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Alcan Holdings Australia Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Australia Class A shares 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 100 Ordinary shares Alcan Holdings Europe B. V. : Netherlands 455.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Ordinary shares Netherlands Alcan Holdings Europe B. V. : Netherlands 455.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Ordinary shares Netherlands Alcan Holdings Nederland B. V. : 4,555.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, Netherlands Ordinary shares Netherlands Alcan Holdings Switzerland AG SA Ltd. : CHF0.01 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Registered shares Switzerland Alcan International Network U. S. A. Inc. : US$ 100 100 CSC, 80 State Street, Albany NY 12207-2543, United States Ordinary shares United States Alcan  GmbH: 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Germany Ordinary shares Alcan Management Services Shanghai US$1.00 100 100 Unit E, 40F Wheelock Square, No.
1717 West Co. Ltd. : China Ordinary shares Nanjing Road, Jingan District, Shanghai, 200040, China Alcan Management Services Canada CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Limited Societe fide Services fide Gestion Ordinary shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan Canada Limitee: Canada Alcan Northern Territory Alumina Pty AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Limited: Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Packaging Canada Limited: Canada CAD 100 100 McCarthy Tetrault LLP, c o Joanne Pierucci, Suite Ordinary shares 5300 Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Alcan Packaging Mhltal Gmbh & Co. KG: 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Germany Ordinary shares Alcan Primary Metal Australia Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Primary Products Company LLC: US$ 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States Units shares USA Alcan Primary Products Corporation: US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 211 East 7th Street, Suite 620, Austin TX United States Ordinary shares 78701-3218, United States Alcan Realty Limited Societe Immobiliere CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Alcan Limitee: Canada Ordinary shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Alcan South Pacific Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Alcan Trading AG SA Ltd. : Switzerland CHF1000 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Registered shares Switzerland Aluminium Dunkerque: France 16.00 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Ordinary shares Courbevoie, France Aluminium Pechiney: France 16.00 100 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, Ordinary shares France Aluminum Company of Canada CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Limited Aluminium du Canada Limitee: Ordinary shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Canada AML Properties Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Anglesey Aluminium Limited Dissolved : 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United e United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Anglesey Aluminium Metal Limited: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom AP Service: France 15.00 100 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, Ordinary shares France Argyle Diamond Mines Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Argyle Diamonds 2013 Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia a Argyle Diamonds Limited: Australia AUD 100 Class A shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 AUD 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Class B shares 184 184 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Ashton Canada Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia Ordinary shares Ashton Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18, Central Park, 152-158 St Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Ashton Nominees Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Australian Coal Holdings Pty.
Limited: AUD 100 a Australia A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Australian Mining & Smelting Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Beasley River Management Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Beasley River Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Borax Espaa, S. A. : Spain 150.00 100 100 CN 340, Km 954, 12520 NULES, Castellon, Spain Ordinary shares Borax Europe Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Borax Francais: France 2.75 100 100 89 Route fide Bourbourg, 59210, CoudekerqueOrdinary shares Branche, France Borax Malaysia Sdn Bhd: Malaysia MYR1.00 100 100 Level 7, Menara Milenium, Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Ordinary shares Bandar Damansara, Damansara Heights 50490 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Borax Rotterdam N. V. : Netherlands 453.78 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197KS, ROTTERDAM BOTLEK, Ordinary shares Netherlands British Alcan Aluminium Limited: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Canning Resources Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Capricorn Diamonds Investments Pty AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Limited: Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Cathjoh Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD Ordinary shares 4000, Australia Champlain Reinsurance Company Ltd. : CHF1.23 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Switzerland Registered shares Switzerland Channar Management Services Pty AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Limited: Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Channar Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia CIA.
Miraflores S. A. C. : Peru Ordinary shares MIRAFLORES LIMA, Peru Compagnie Gnrale Dlectrolyse Du 0.94 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Palais: France Ordinary shares Courbevoie, France Compania fide Transmision Sierraoriente PEN1,000.00 100 100 Av.
Miraflores S. A. C. : Peru Ordinary shares MIRAFLORES LIMA, Peru CRA Exploration India Private Limited: INR10.00 100 100 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital India Ordinary shares Court, Olof Palme Marg, Munirka, NEW DELHI 110067, India a CRA Investments Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia a CRA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia Daybreak Development LLC: United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Daybreak Property Holdings LLC: United 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake c States City UT 84101, United States Daybreak Secondary Water Distribution US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Company: United States Common shares USA Daybreak Water Holding LLC: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA DB Medical I LLC: United States US$ 100 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake Units shares City UT 84101, United States c DBVC1 LLC: United States 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake City UT 84101, United States Diavik Diamond Mines 2012 Inc. : Canada CAD 100 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, PO Box 2498, Yellowknife Common shares NT X1A 2P8, Canada 185 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 185 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address a East Kalimantan Coal Pte.
Ltd: Singapore SGD1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial 100 US$1.00 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Ordinary shares Eastland Management Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Electric Power Generation Limited: New NZD1 100 100 Tiwai Road, Southland via Intercargill, New a Zealand Ordinary shares Zealand Empresa fide Mineracao Finesa Ltda.
: Brazil BRL 100 100 SIA, Trecho 2, Lotes 710 720, Brasilia DF, Brazil Quotas shares a Falcon Insurance Ltd: Malta US$1.00 100 Class A ordinary No 7, 4th Floor, Block C, Skyway Offices, shares 100 179 Marina Street, Pieta, PTA 9042, Malta US$1.00 100 Class B shares Flambeau Mining Company: United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA a Fundsprops Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A Class 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, ordinary shares Australia Gladstone Infrastructure Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Class G 100 Redeemable Preference shares 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 100 AUD A Class ordinary 100 shares Gove Aluminium Ltd: Australia AUD A Non 100 redeemable preference shares AUD A 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Redeemable preference shares AUD 100 Ordinary shares GPS Energy Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD ordinary shares 4000, Australia GPS Nominee Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD ordinary shares 4000, Australia GPS Power Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD ordinary shares 4000, Australia Hail Creek Coal Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Hamersley Exploration Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hamersley HMS Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia a Hamersley Holdings Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hamersley Iron Yandi Pty Limited: AUD 100 a Australia Class B shares AUD 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 Class C shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Hamersley Iron Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hamersley Resources Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia AUD Z Class 100 ordinary shares Hamersley WA Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Henlopen Manufacturing Co. Inc. : United US$100.00 100 100 CSC, 80 State Street, Albany NY 12207-2543, States Ordinary shares United States High Purity Iron Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA HIsmelt Corporation Pty Limited: AUD Class A shares 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges a Australia Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia 186 186 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Hunter Valley Resources Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class shares 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD B Class shares 100 IEA Coal Research Limited: United 1.00 100 100 Apsley House, Third Floor, 176 Upper Richmond Kingdom Ordinary shares Road, London, SW15 2SH, United Kingdom IEA Environmental Projects Limited: 1.00 100 100 IEAGHG, Pure Offices Cheltenham Office Park, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Hatherley Lane, Cheltenham, GL51 6SH, United Kingdom Industrias Metalicas Castello S. A. : Spain 6.01 100 100 Calle Tuset 10, 08006, Barcelona, Catalogna, Spain Ordinary shares Integrity Land and Cattle LLC: United US$ 100 100 CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ States Units shares 85021 d Itallumina Srl: Italy 1.00 100 100 Viale Castro Pretorio 122, 00185, Roma, Italy Quotas shares Johcath Holdings Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD Ordinary shares 4000, Australia Juna Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Kalimantan Gold Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia a Kalteng Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD A Class ordinary 100 shares AUD1.00 Class B 100 Fully paid $1.00 13 01 2003 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AUD1.00 Class B 100 Paid to $0.12 02 09 2005 AUD 100 Ordinary shares Kelian Investment Limited: British Virgin 100 Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British c e Islands Virgin Islands a Kelian Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia Kembla Coal & Coke Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Kennecott Barneys Canyon Mining US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Company: United States Common shares USA Kennecott Exploration Company: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Kennecott Exploration Mexico, S. A. fide MXN1,000.00 100 100 Felix Berenguer 125 4, Col. Lomas Virreyes, C. V. : Mexico Ordinary shares Distrito Federal, 11000, Mexico Kennecott Holdings Corporation: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Kennecott Land Company: United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Kennecott Land Investment Company LLC: 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, c United States USA Kennecott Molybdenum Company: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Kennecott Nevada Copper Company: US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States Common shares USA Kennecott Ridgeway Mining Company: US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States Common shares USA Kennecott Royalty Company: United US$100.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Kennecott Services Company: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Kennecott Uranium Company: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Kennecott Utah Copper LLC: United States US$ 100 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake Units shares City UT 84101, United States Kennecott Water Distribution LLC: United US$ 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Ordinary shares USA Kestrel Coal Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Kestrel Coal Sales Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares a Kutaibar Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia 187 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 187 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Lawson Mardon Flexible Limited: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Lawson Mardon Smith Brothers Ltd. : 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Metallwerke Refonda AG: Switzerland CHF125 100 100 Herostrasse 9, P. O.
Box 1954, CH-8048 Zrich, Bearer shares Switzerland Metals & Minerals Insurance Pte.
Limited: SGD Redeemable 100 Singapore preference shares 2 Shenton Way, #2601, SGX Centre 1, Singapore 100 068804, Singapore SGD 100 Ordinary shares Mineracao Tabuleiro Ltda: Brazil BRL 100 100 SIA, Trecho 2, Lotes 690 720, Brasilia DF, Brazil Quotas shares Minera Kennecott, S. A. fide C. V. : Mexico MXN1 100 100 Florencia 57, Piso 3, Col. Juarez, Delegacion Series B shares Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, D. F. 06600, Mexico Mitchell Plateau Bauxite Co. Pty.
Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Mount Pleasant Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Mutamba Mineral Sands S. A. : Mozambique MZN100.00 100 100 Avenida 24 fide Julho, no.
3412, Bairro da Polana Ordinary shares Cimento, Maputo City, Mozambique NBH Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Nhulunbuy Corporation Limited: 100 19 Westal Street, Nhulunbuy NT 0880, Australia c Australia Norgold Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 Redeemable 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Preference North Gold W. A. Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 100 AUD Redeemable 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia preference shares North Insurances Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia North IOC Bermuda Holdings Limited: US$1.00 100 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM Bermuda Ordinary shares 11, Bermuda North IOC Bermuda Limited: Bermuda US$143.64 Class A 100 ordinary shares US$100,000.00 100 Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton, HM 100 Preferred shares 11, Bermuda US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares North IOC Holdings Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia North Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia North Mining Limited: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges AUD 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Redeemable preference shares Pacific Aluminium New Zealand Limited: NZD1 100 100 Level 6, 109 Featherston Street, Wellington, 6011, New Zealand Ordinary shares New Zealand Pacific Aluminium Bell Bay Sales Pty AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD Limited: Australia Ordinary shares 4000, Australia a Pacific Aluminium Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia Pacific Aluminium Services Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD Australia Ordinary shares 4000, Australia Pacific Coast Mines, Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Pechiney Aviatube Limited: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Pechiney Btiment: France 15.00 100 100 725 rue Aristide Bergs, 38341 Voreppe Cedex, Ordinary shares France 188 188 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Pechiney Bcancour, Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA Ordinary shares Pechiney Cast Plate, Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA Ordinary shares Pechiney Consolidated Australia Pty US$1.00 100 Limited: Australia Ordinary shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia US$1.00 100 Preference shares Pechiney Dis Ticaret Limited Sirketi: TRY25.00 100 100 Karakoy Haci Mimi Mah.
10 Kat 4, d Turkey Ordinary shares Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey Pechiney Holdings, Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA Ordinary shares c Pechiney Metals LLC: United States 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA Pechiney Plastic Packaging, Inc. : United US$ 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA States Ordinary shares Pechiney Sales Corporation: United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA Ordinary shares Peko Exploration Pty Ltd. : Australia AUD 100 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia Ordinary shares Peko-Wallsend Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Ordinary shares Perth WA 6000, Australia Pilbara Iron Company Services Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Australia Ordinary shares Perth WA 6000, Australia Pilbara Iron Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Ordinary shares Perth WA 6000, Australia Port dEhoala S. A. : Madagascar US$100.00 100 100 Immeuble ASSIST, Ivandry, Lot N35, 5me tage, 101 Ordinary shares Antananarivo, Antananarivo, Madagascar Project Generation Group Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia PSZ Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Ordinary shares Perth WA 6000, Australia d PT Alcan Packaging Flexipack: Indonesia IDR1,000,000.00 100 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Ordinary shares Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia d PT Rio Tinto Consultants: Indonesia US$1.00 100 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Ordinary shares Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia d PT Rio Tinto Exploration: Indonesia US$1.00 100 100 15th Floor, Menara Anugrah, Kantor Taman E3.3, Jalan Ordinary shares DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 8.6-8.7, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Rio Tinto Indonesia: Indonesia US$1.00 100 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Ordinary shares Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia d PT Rio Tinto Irja: Indonesia US$1.00 100 100 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak Agung Gde Ordinay shares Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia QIT Madagascar Minerals Ltd: Bermuda US$1.00 100 100 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Ordinay shares Bermuda Queensland Coal Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Qumica e Metalrgica Mequital Ltda.
das Nacoes Unida, 12551 19o, andar, CJ 1911, Brazil Ordinary shares 04578-000, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil Ranges Management Company Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Australia Ordinary shares Perth WA 6000, Australia Ranges Mining Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Ordinary shares Perth WA 6000, Australia Resolution Copper Company: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA States Common shares Richards Bay Mining Holdings ZAR1.00 A 100 Proprietary Limited: South Africa Ordinary shares The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South 100 Africa ZAR1.00 B 100 Ordinary shares Richards Bay Titanium Holdings ZAR1.00 A 100 Proprietary Limited: South Africa Ordinary shares The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu-Natal, South 100 ZAR1.00 B 100 Africa Ordinary shares 189 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 189 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio fide Contas Desenvolvimentos Minerais BRL 100 100 Rua Coronel Durval Matos, S N. Centro, Municipio fide Ltda: Brazil Quota shares Jaguaquara, Estado da Bahia, CEP45345-000, Brazil Rio Santa Rita Empreenimentos eBRL 100 100 SIA, Trecho 2, Lotes 690 720, Brasilia, DF, Brazil Particiacoes Ltda Quota shares c Rio Sava Exploration DOO: Serbia 100 Resavska 23, 11000 Beograd, Beograd, 11000, Serbia Rio Tinto Commercial Paper Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Hong Kong Ltd: Hong Kong HKD 100 100 Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Ordinary shares Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong Rio Tinto Mauritius Pty Limited: US$1.00 100 100 6th Floor, Tower A, 1 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius d Mauritius Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Advisory Services Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Alcan Fund Inc. : Canada CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Ordinary shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. : Canada CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan International Ltd. Rio CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Tinto Alcan International Ltee: Canada Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Alcan Middle East DMCC: United AED1,000 100 100 Gold Tower, Jlt Cluster I, 8th Floor, Unit E, Dubai, Arab Emirates Ordinary shares PO BOX 340801, United Arab Emirates Rio Tinto Alcan Technology Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Almazpoisk LLC: Russian 100 3, Aleksandra Lukyanova, 105066, Moscow, c d Federation Russian Federation Rio Tinto Aluminium Bell Bay Limited: AUD 7.5% Cumulative 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Australia preference shares 100 Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Ordinary shares 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited: AUD Ordinary shares 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Rio Tinto Aluminium Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto America Holdings Inc. : United US$0.01 Class A 100 States common shares CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, 100 US$100.00 Series A 100 USA preferred stock Rio Tinto America Inc. : United States US$100.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Rio Tinto Asia Ltd: Hong Kong HKD 100 100 Suite 2802, 28 F, Lippo Centre Tower 2, 89 Ordinary shares Queensway, Admiralty, Hong Kong a Rio Tinto Asia Pty.
: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD 100 100 Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto AuM Company: United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Rio Tinto Australian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Bahia Holdings Limited: United US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Base Metals Pty.
Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Brazilian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Brazilian Investments Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Canada Diamond Operation CAD 100 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, PO Box 2498, Yellowknife Management Inc. : Canada Common shares NT X1A 2P8, Canada Rio Tinto Canada Inc: Canada CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , CAD Class D shares 100 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD Class J Shares 100 Class K Shares 100 190 190 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Canada Management Inc. Rio CAD 100 Tinto Gestion Canada Inc. : Canada Common shares 400-1190 Avenue des , 100 CAD 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Preferred shares Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation: CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Coal Clermont Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Coal Australia Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Coal Investments Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Coal NSW Holdings Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia a Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Desenvolvimentos Minerais BRL 100 100 SIG Quadra 04, Lote 175, Torre A, Salas 106 a 109, LTDA.
: Brazil Quotas shares Edificio Capital Financial Center, Brasilia, CEP 70610-440, Brazil Rio Tinto Diamonds and Minerals Canada CAD Class A 100 Holding Inc. : Canada dividend rights CAD Class B shares 100 300-5201 50th Avenue, PO Box 2498, Yellowknife CAD Class C 100 100 NT X1A 2P8, Canada voting rights shares CAD Class P1 100 preferred shares Rio Tinto Diamonds Limited: United US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Diamonds Netherlands B. V. : 500.00 100 100 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, The Netherlands Ordinary shares Netherlands, Netherlands Rio Tinto Diamonds NV: Belgium 100 100 Hoveniersstraat 53, 2018 Antwerp, Belgium Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Eastern Investments B. V. : 13,418,899,730 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Netherlands Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Energy America Inc. : United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA Rio Tinto Energy Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Escondida Limited: Bermuda US$1.00 100 100 22 Canons Court, Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Ordinary shares Bermuda Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United b United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Exploration Asia Holdings Pte.
US$1.00 100 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Ltd. : Singapore Ordinary shares Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Exploration PNG Limited: Papua PGK1.00 100 100 c o BDO Accountants, Section 15, Lot 15, Bernal a New Guinea Ordinary shares Street, National Capital District, Papua New Guinea Rio Tinto Exploration and Mining India INR10.00 100 100 21st Floor, DLF Building No.
5, Tower A, DLF Cyber Private Limited: India Ordinary shares City, Phase III, Gurgaon, Haryana, 122002, India Rio Tinto Exploration Canada Inc. : Canada CAD Class A shares 100 CAD Class B shares 100 CAD Class C shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des , 100 Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada CAD Class D shares 100 CAD Class E 100 preferred shares d Rio Tinto Exploration Gabon SA: Gabon XAF10,000 100 100 C O NEW ACE Baker Tilly, Quartier Louis Ordinary shares Quaben, Libreville, B. P :3981, Gabon Rio Tinto Exploration India Private Limited: INR10.00 100 100 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital India Ordinary shares Court, Olof Palme Marg, Munirka, NEW DELHI 110067, India Rio Tinto Exploration Kazakhstan LLP: 100 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan c Kazakhstan Rio Tinto Exploration Pty Limited: AUD Class B shares 100 a Australia AUD Class C shares 100 100 37 Belmont Avenue, Belmont WA 6104, Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Exploration Zambia Limited: ZMW1.00 100 100 Plot 3827, Parliament Road, Olympia, Zambia Ordinary shares Lusaka, Zambia 191 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 191 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Fer et Titane inc. : Canada CAD Class B 100 preference shares CAD 100 1625 Route Marie-Victorin, Sorel-Tracy QC J3R 100 Common shares 1M6, Canada CAD$0.01 100 Preferred shares d Rio Tinto FH Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Finance USA plc: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto PACE Canada Inc. Gestion Rio CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Tinto PACE Canada Inc. : Canada Ordinary shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada a Rio Tinto Finance Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC Ordinary shares 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Finance plc: United Kingdom 1.00 100 Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto France S. A. S. : France 15.25 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, Ordinary shares 92400, Courbevoie, France Rio Tinto Global Employment Company US$1.00 100 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore Ordinary shares Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Guine S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000.00 100 100 Route fide la Corniche Nord, Cit MinistrielleRue Ordinary shares DI 256 Quartier Landrah, Commune fide DixinnBP 99, Conakry, Guinea Rio Tinto Holdings LLC: Mongolia MNT20,000.00 100 100 Monnis Tower 13th floor, Chinggis Avenue-15, SBD, Ordinary shares Ulaanbaatar-14240, Mongolia Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy Australia Pty AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC a Limited: Australia Ordinary shares 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Hydrogen Energy LLC: United 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, c States USA Rio Tinto Iceland Ltd. : Iceland ISK1.00 100 100 P. O.
Box 244, IS-222, Hafnarfjrdur, Iceland Registered shares Rio Tinto India Private Limited: India INR10.00 100 100 Apartment No.
100 A 5, Ground Floor, The Capital Ordinary shares Court, Olof Palme Marg, Munirka, NEW DELHI 110067, India Rio Tinto Indonesian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United b United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto International Trading Shanghai US$1.00 100 100 Room 1615-3, No.
1 Jilong Road, China Shanghai d Co Ltd: China Ordinary shares Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 200031, China Rio Tinto Investments One Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rio Tinto Investments Two Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Australia Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Suzhou Co. US$1.00 100 100 418 Nanshi Street, Suzhou Industrial Park, Ltd: China Ordinary shares Suzhou, 215021, China Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium GmbH: 100 Mergenthalerallee 77, D-65760, Eschborn, c Germany Frankfurt am Main, Germany Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Holdings GmbH: 100 Mergenthalerallee 77, D-65760, Eschborn, c Germany Frankfurt am Main, Germany Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium Limited: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Canada Inc. Rio CAD 100 100 1625 Route Marie-Victorin, Sorel-Tracy QC J3R Tinto Fer et Titane Canada Inc. : Canada Common shares 1M6, Canada Rio Tinto Iron Ore Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore US$1.00 100 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Ordinary shares Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Iron Ore Atlantic Limited: United US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Iron Ore Europe S. A. S. : France 100.00 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, Ordinary shares 92400, Courbevoie, France 192 192 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Iron Ore Trading China Limited: US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Japan Ltd: Japan JPY500 100 100 8th Floor, Kojimachi Diamond Building, 1 Kojimachi Ordinary shares 4-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-0083, Japan Rio Tinto Jersey Holdings 2010 Limited: US$ 100 100 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Jersey Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Korea Ltd: Republic of Korea KRW10,000.00 100 100 2nd Floor, JS Tower, 6 Teheran-ro 79-gil, GangnamOrdinary shares Gu, Seoul, 135-877, Republic of Korea Rio Tinto Logistic Services Pty Ltd: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC a g Australia Ordinary shares 3000, Australia Rio Tinto London Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Management Services South ZAR2.00 100 100 1 Harries Road, Illovo, Sandton, 2196, Africa Proprietary Ltd: South Africa Ordinary shares Sandton, South Africa, 2196, South Africa Rio Tinto Marketing Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial 100 US$1.00 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Marketing Services Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Medical Plan Trustees Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Metals Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Minera Peru Limitada SAC: Peru PEN100.00 100 100 Av.
La Paz 1049, Oficina 501, Lima 18, Peru Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Mineracao do Brasil Ltda: Brazil BRL1 100 100 SIG Quadra 04, Lote 175, Torre A, Salas 106 a Quotas shares 109, Edificio Capital Financial Center, Brasilia, Brasilia, CEP 70610-440, Brazil Rio Tinto Minerals Asia Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Minerals Development Limited: 0.25 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Minerals Exploration Beijing US$ 1.00 100 100 Units 15 - 16, 18 F, China World Office Building 2, Co. Ltd: China Ordinary shares No.
1 Jianguomenwai Dajie, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China Rio Tinto Minerals Inc. : United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 15 West South Temple, Suite 1701, Salt Lake Common shares City UT 84101, United States Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Inc. : US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States Common shares USA Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration S. A. C. : PEN0.5 100 100 Calle General Borgono N 1034, Miraflores, Lima 18, Peru Ordinary shares Peru Rio Tinto Namibian Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Nickel Company: United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Rio Tinto Nominees Limited: United 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto OT Management Limited: United US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Overseas Holdings Limited: 1.00 100 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Pension Investments Limited: 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United b United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Peru Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Potash Management Inc. Rio CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Tinto Potasse Management Inc. : Canada Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Procurement Singapore Pte US$1.00 100 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Ltd: Singapore Ordinary shares Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore 193 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 193 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Rio Tinto Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial 100 SGD$1.00 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Preference shares Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Management Inc. : CAD 100 100 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada Common shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings CAD 100 100 McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Suite 5300, TD Bank Tower 66 General Partner Inc. : Canada Common shares Wellington Street West, Toronto ON M5K 1E6, Canada Rio Tinto Saskatchewan Potash Holdings 100 McCarthy Tetrault LLP, Suite 5300, TD Bank Tower c Limited Partnership: Canada 66 Wellington Street West, Toronto ON M5K Canada 1E6, Canada Rio Tinto Secretariat Limited 1.00 100 100 6 St James's Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Services Inc. : United States US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA a Rio Tinto Services Limited: Australia AUD Class Z shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, AUD 100 100 Australia Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Shared Services Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Shipping Asia Pte.
Ltd. : US$1.00 Ordinary 100 100 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial Singapore shares Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Rio Tinto Shipping Pty.
: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Simfer UK Limited: United US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Singapore Holdings Pte Ltd: SGD$1.00 100 Singapore Ordinary shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial 100 US$ 100 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore Ordinary shares Rio Tinto South East Asia Limited: United 1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Rio Tinto Staff Fund Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Rio Tinto Sulawesi Holdings Limited: US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Technological Resources Inc. : US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, United States Common shares USA Rio Tinto Technological Resources UK US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Limited: United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd. : US$1.00 100 100 41 F Wheelock Square, No.
1717 West Nanjing China Ordinary shares Road, Jing an District, Shanghai, 200040, China Rio Tinto Uranium Limited: United US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Kingdom Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Vostok Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Rio Tinto Western Holdings Limited: United 1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$1.00 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares Riversdale Connections Proprietary Ltd: ZAR1.00 100 100 Ground Floor Cypress Place North, Woodmead South Africa Ordinary shares Business Park140 142 Western Service Road, Woodmead, 2191, South Africa Robe River Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Rocklea Station Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Ordinary shares Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia RTA AAL Australia Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Boyne Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 Pacific Aluminium, Level 3, 500 Queen Street, Ordinary shares Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia RTA Holdco 1 Limited: United Kingdom US$ 0.0001 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom 194 194 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Registered office address Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership RTA Holdco 4 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$0.73 100 Kingdom Ordinary shares RTA Holdco 7 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 Ordinary shares 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United 100 US$ Class A 100 Kingdom preference shares RTA Holdco 8 Limited: United Kingdom US$1.00 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares 100 Kingdom US$ Class A 100 preference shares RTA Holdco Australia 1 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco Australia 3 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco Australia 5 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco Australia 6 Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Holdco France 2017 S. A. S. : France 10.00 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, Ordinary shares Courbevoie, France RTA Pacific Pty Limited: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Sales Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Class A shares 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD Class B shares 100 RTA Smelter Development Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares RTA Weipa Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTA Yarwun Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Ordinary shares RTAlcan 1 LLC: United States US$ 100 Common shares CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, 100 US$ Class A 100 USA preferred shares RTAlcan 2 LLC: United States US$ 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA RTAlcan 3 LLC: United States US$ 100 100 CSC, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington Common shares fide 19808 a RTLDS Aus Pty.
Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia RTLDS UK Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom RTMDC LLC: Mongolia MNT1,240.00 100 100 7 floor, Seoul Business Centre, Zaluuchuud avenue Common shares 26, 1st khoroo, Bayanzurkh district, Ulaanbaatar, 13381, Mongolia RTPDS Aus Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Ordinary shares Australia Savoie Services Y. K. : Japan JPY50,000 100 100 Harumi, 3 Nagahama-cho, Ozu-city, Ehime-ken, Ordinary shares 799-3412, Japan Scheuch Unterstuetzungskasse GmbH: 51.13 100 100 Alusingenplatz 1, D-78221, Singen, Germany Germany Ordinary shares Skeleton Coast Diamonds Limited: Namibia NAD2.00 100 100 360 Sam Nujoma Drive, Klein Windhoek, Windhoek, Ordinary shares Namibia Skymont Corporation: United States US$ 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Socit fide Financement Des Risques 100 100 534, rue fide Neudorf, B. P. 593, Luxembourg, LIndustriels: Luxembourg Ordinary shares 2015, Luxembourg Socit Dentreprises, Carrires Et Mines 9.33 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, fide LEsterel: France Ordinary shares Courbevoie, France Socit Gnrale fide Recherches et 0.22 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, dexploitations Minires: France Ordinary shares Courbevoie, France Socit Immobilire Alpes Provence: 15.00 100 100 17 Place des Reflets, La Defense 2, 92400, France Ordinary shares Courbevoie, France Sohio Western Mining Company: United US$100.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA 195 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 195 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Wholly owned subsidiary undertakings % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Southern Copper Pty.
Limited: Australia AUD A shares 100 AUD B shares 100 AUD Non cumulative 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, redeemable 100 Australia preference shares AUD 100 Ordinary shares Swift Current Land & Cattle LLC: United 100 CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, Phoenix AZ c States 85021 Swiss Aluminium Australia Limited: AUD 100 Australia Ordinary shares AUD 100 Stock Unit A shares 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD 100 Stock Unit B shares AUD 100 Stock Unit C shares TBAC Limited: United Kingdom 1.00 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Technological Resources Pty.
Limited: AUD A 100 a Australia Ordinary shares Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, 100 AUD B 100 Australia Ordinary shares The Barrier Corporation Vic.
Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia The Kelian Community and Forest 100 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, c Protection Trust: Singapore 049315, Singapore The Pyrites Company, Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA The Roberval and Saguenay Railway CAD$100.00 100 Company La Compagnie du Chemin fide Fer Ordinary shares Roberval Saguenay: Canada CAD$100.00 100 400-1190 Avenue des , 100 Preference Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada shares 6% non-cumulative The Zinc Corporation Pty Ltd: Australia AUD 100 Ordinary shares Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, 100 Australia AUD Z 100 Class ordinary shares Thos.
W. Ward Limited: United Kingdom 0.25 100 100 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, United Ordinary shares Kingdom Three Crowns Insurance Company Limited: 1.00 100 100 Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda Common shares Bermuda Tinto Holdings Australia Pty.
Limited: AUD A shares 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia AUD 100 100 Australia Ordinary shares Trans Territory Pipeline Pty Limited: AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Australia Ordinary shares U. S. Borax Inc. : United States US$0.10 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Common shares USA Union Gnrale Industrielle Africaine: MAD100.00 100 100 52 bld Zerktouni 1er tage Appartement N 3, Morocco Ordinary shares Espace , Maroc, Morocco a Victoria Technology Inc. : United States US$1.00 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, Ordinary shares USA Waste Solutions and Recycling LLC: United US$ 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Units shares USA West Kutai Foundation Limited: 100 10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, c Singapore 049315, Singapore Wimmera Industrial Minerals Pty.
Limited: AUD 100 100 Level 33, 120 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, a Australia Ordinary shares Australia Winchester South Development Company AUD 100 100 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Proprietary Limited: Australia Ordinary shares Wyoming Coal Resources Company: United US$0.01 100 100 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, States Common shares USA c 201 Logistics Center, LLC: United States 50 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide 19808, USA AGM Holding Company Pte Ltd: Singapore US$ 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Ordinary shares Singapore 196 196 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary companies %of share Effective class held Group % Name of undertaking and country of by Group ownershi incorporation Share class companies p Registered office address Alufluor AB: Sweden SEK1,000.00 50 50 Industrigatan 70, Box 902, S-25109, Helsingborg, Ordinary shares Sweden Aluminerie Alouette Inc: Canada CAD Ordinary shares 40 40 400, Chemin fide la Pointe-Noire, C. P. 1650, Septles Qubec G4R 5M9, Canada Aluminerie fide Bcancour, Inc. : Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary 50.1 25.2 5555 Pierre Thibault Street, PO 30, Becancour, shares Quebec G0X 1B, Canada Aluminium & Chemie Rotterdam B. V. : 4,555 Ordinary 65.8 65.8 Oude Maasweg 80, NL-3197 KJ, Botlek, Rotterdam, Netherlands shares The Netherlands Asia Gold Mongolia LLC: Mongolia MNT1,250.00 100 50.7 Suite 1302, F13, Monnis Tower, Chingis Avenue-15, Common shares 1st Khoroo, Sukhbaatar district, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia Asia Naran Bulag LLC: Mongolia MNT1,000.00 100 50.7 Suite 1302, F13, Monnis Tower, Chingis Avenue-15, Common shares 1st Khoroo, Sukhbaatar district, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia c Balkhash Saryshagan LLP: Kazakhstan 75 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan Beasley River Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia AUD A Class Shares 100 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 53 AUS B Shares 100 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Bektau B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 Ordinary 75 75 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, Botlek-Rotterdam, shares The Netherlands, Netherlands Blair Athol Coal Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary shares 57.2 71.2 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Boyne Smelters Limited: Australia AUD A1 Class shares 100 AUD A2 Class shares 100 59.4 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia AUD B1 Class shares 100 c CanPacific Potash Inc. : Canada 32 c o McKercher LLP, 374 Third Avenue South, Saskatoon SK S7K1M5, Canada Carol Lake Company Ltd. : Canada CAD$100.00 Ordinar 100 58.7 400-1190 Avenue des , y shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Chinalco Rio Tinto Exploration Co. Ltd in CNY1.00 Capital 49 49 Unit 402, China Resources Building, No.
8 d liquidation : China Contribution Jianguomenbei Avenue, Dong Cheng District, Ordinary shares Beijing, 100005 P. R. China Chlor Alkali Unit Pte Ltd: Singapore SGD$1.00 Ordinary 100 SGD shares 12 Marina Boulevard, #20-01 Marina Bay Financial 68.4 Centre Tower 3, Singapore, 018982, Singapore US$1.00 Ordinary 68.4 USD shares Corporation fide Pche Ste-Marguerite Inc. : CAD$10.00 Ordinary 96.8 96.8 400-1190 Avenue des , Canada shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd: AUD Ordinary shares 32.1 22.8 Martin Armstrong Drive, Hay Point via Mackay QLD Australia 4740, Australia Dampier Salt Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary 68.4 $1.00257 shares Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges 68.4 AUD Ordinary 68.4 Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia $1.88 on 31 01 2013 shares Enarotali Gold Project Limited: Jersey 0.001 Ordinary 25 25 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 5UT, Jersey shares Energy Resources of Australia Ltd: AUD A Class 68.4 68.4 C - Mallesons Stephen Jacques, 60 Marcus Clarke Australia ordinary shares Street, Canberra ACT, Australia Fabrica fide Plasticos Mycsa, S. A. : VEF1.00 Common 49 49 Urbanizacin Industrial San Ignacio, parcela 2-A, va d Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela shares San Pedro, Los Teques, Estado Miranda, Venezuela Global Hubco BV: Netherlands 1.00 Ordinary 33.3 33.3 c o TMF Netherlands B. V. Luna Arena, shares Herikerbergweg 238, 1101, CM Amsterdam Zuidoost, Netherlands Gulf Power Company La Compagnie Gulf CAD$100.00 100 58.7 400-1190 Avenue des , Power: Canada Ordinary shares Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, Canada Hail Creek Marketing Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 82 82 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Halco Mining Inc. : United States US$100.00 Ordinary 45 45 The Prentice-Hall Corporation System, Inc. 2711 shares Centerville Road, Suite 400, Willmington fide 19808, United States Half-Tide Marine Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 48.6 34.6 DBCT MS F283, Martin Armstrong Drive, Hay Point, QLD 4740, Australia Heruga Exploration LLC: Mongolia MNT 12,500 100 50.8 Suite 1302, F13, Monnis Tower, Chingis Avenue-15, Common Shares 1st Khoroo, Sukhbaatar district, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia Hope Downs Marketing Company Pty Ltd: AUD A Class shares 100 50 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Australia Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Hydrogen Energy International LLC: United 50 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle, c States Delaware, U. S. A. IAL Holdings Singapore Pte Ltd: Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 57.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Iron Ore Company of Canada: United US$1,000.00 Series 91.4 States B shares US$1,000.00 Series 100 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, 58.7 G shares U. S. A. US$1,000.00 Series 100 F shares 197 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 197 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary companies %of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address c Korgantas LLP: Kazakhstan 75 Dostyk 310 G, Almaty, 050020, Kazakhstan Lao Sanxai Minerals Company Limited: Lao US$1.00 Ordinary shares 70 70 5th Floor, ANZ Bank Building, 33 Lane Peoples Democratic Republic Xang Avenue, Hatsady Village, Chanthaboury District, Vientiane Capital, Lao Peoples Democratic Republic Leichhardt Coal Pty Limited: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 44.7 44.7 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia Magma Arizona Railroad Company: United US$100.00 Common shares 99.9 54.9 CSC, 2338 W. Royal Palm Road, Suite J, States Phoenix AZ 85021 c Minera Escondida Ltda: Chile 30 Av.
Cerro Plomo, Piso 18, Las Condes, Santiago, 7580154, Chile Movele: Luxembourg US$ Ordinary shares 100 50.8 22 rue Jean-Pierre Brasseur, L-1258, Luxembourg US$ Preference shares 100 New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Ltd: NZD1.00 Class A Ordinary 79.4 79.4 Tiwai Road, Southland via Intercargill, New Zealand shares New Zealand Northern Land Company Ltd: Canada CAD1.00 Ordinary shares 50 58.7 235 Water Street, Ste 1000 Scotia Ctr, StJohns Newfoundland A1C 1B6 Nozalela Mineral Sands Pty Ltd: South ZAR 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 74 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZuluAfrica Natal, South Africa NZAS Retirement Fund Trustee Limited: NZD Ordinary shares 100 79.4 Mercer NZ Limiited, Level 8, 113-119 New Zealand The Terrace, Wellington, 6140, New Zealand e Orian Holding Corp: British Virgin Islands US$ Common shares 100 50.8 Midocean Cambers-Management and Trust Services BVI Limited, PO Box 805, Pelican Drive, Road Town, Tortola, VG 110, British Virgin Islands f Oyu Tolgoi LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000.00 Common 66 33.5 Level 12 Monnis Tower, Chinggis Avenueshares 15, 1st khoroo, Sukhbaatar District, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia Oyu Tolgoi Netherlands BV: Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary shares 100 50.8 Prins Bernhardplein 200, Amsterdam, 1097 JB, The Netherlands Pechiney Philippines Inc. : Philippines PHP10.00 Ordinary shares 99.9 99.9 Room 306, ITC Building, 337 Sen Gil Puyat Avenue, Markati, Metro Manila, Philippines Pechiney Reynolds Quebec, Inc. : United US$10.00 Common shares 50 CSC, 233 South 13th Street, Suite 1900, 50.2 States US$100.00 Preferred shares 100 Lincoln NE 68508, U. S. A. Procivis Savoie: France 19.00 Ordinary shares 22.1 22.1 116 Quai Charles Roissard, 73000, Chambry, France PT Hutan Lindung Kelian Lestari: Indonesia IDR9,803.00 Ordinary 99 99 Kelian Mine Site, West Kutai, East shares Kalimantan, Indonesia PT Kelian Equatorial Mining: Indonesia IDR1,080.00 Ordinary 90 90 31st Floor, Menara BTPN, Jl.
Dr. Ide Anak shares Agung Gde Agung Lot 5.5-5.6, Mega Kuningan, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Mitra Sumbawa Minerals: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90 90 15th Floor, Menara Anugrah, Kantor Taman E3.3, Jalan DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 8.6-8.7, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia PT Rikit Alas Minerals: Indonesia US$1.00 Ordinary shares 90 90 15th Floor, Menara Anugrah, Kantor Taman E3.3, Jalan DR. Ide Anak Agung Gde Agung Lot 8.6-8.7, Jakarta, 12950, Indonesia QIT Madagascar Minerals SA: Madagascar US$10.00 Certicats 100 Immeuble ASSIST, Ivandry, Lot N35, dinvestissemant 80 5me tage, 101 Antananarivo, Antananarivo, Madagascar US$10.00 Common shares 80 Quebec North Shore and Labrador Railway CAD$27.59 Ordinary shares 100 400-1190 Avenue des  Compagnie fide Chemin fide Fer 58.7 Montral, Montral Qubec H3B 0E3, du Littoral Nord fide Quebec et du Labrador Canada Inc. : Canada Queensland Alumina Limited: Australia AUD Class B shares 100 Plant Operations Building, Parsons Point, AUD Class C shares 100 80 Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia AUD CLASS D shares 100 Resolution Copper Mining LLC: United 55 CSC, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington fide c States 19808, U. S. A.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary companies %of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited: ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 99.9 South Africa ZAR0.01 B Preference 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu- 73.9 shares Natal, South Africa ZAR 0.01 BHP Billiton 100 Preference share Richards Bay Prefco Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR0.01 Preference shares 100 99.9 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZuluNatal, South Africa Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary ZAR0.01 B Preference 100 Limited: South Africa shares The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZuluZAR0.01 BHP Billiton 100 73.9 Natal, South Africa Preference shares ZAR0.01 B Ordinary shares 100 Rightship Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 33.3 33.3 Level 20, 500 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000, Australia Rio Tinto Orissa Mining Private Ltd: India INR100.00 Ordinary shares 51 51 N-3 356, IRC Village, Nayapalli, Bhubaneswar, Orissa, 751015, India Rio Tinto Sohar Logistics LLC: Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 70 70 P. O.
Box 686, Ruwi, 112, Oman Riversdale Anthracite Colliery ZAR2.00 Ordinary shares 74 74 Ground Floor Cypress Place North, Proprietary Ltd: South Africa Woodmead Business Park, 140-142 Western Service Road, Woodmead, 2151, South Africa Robe River Mining Co. Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Class A shares 40 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. 73.6 AUD Class B shares 76.4 Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Robe River Ore Sales Pty.
Ltd. : Australia AUD Ordinary 65 57.1 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia f Rssing Uranium Limited: Namibia NAD1 B Shares shares 71.2 360 Sam Nujoma Drive, Klein Windhoek, 35.6 Windhoek, Namibia NAD0.1 C Shares 70.6 Saryarka B. V. : Netherlands 200.00 Ordinary shares 75 75 Welplaatweg 104, 3197 KS, BotlekRotterdam, The Netherlands, Netherlands SGLS LLC: Mongolia MNT10,000 Common shares 100 50.8 Suite 1302, F13, Monnis Tower, Chingis Avenue-15, 1st Khoroo, Sukhbaatar district, Ulaanbaatar, 14240, Mongolia Simfer Jersey Finance 1 Ltd: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 100 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Simfer Jersey Finance 2 Ltd: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 53 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Simfer Jersey Limited: Jersey US$ Ordinary shares 53 53 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Simfer Jersey Nominee Limited: United 1.00 Ordinary shares 100 53 6 St Jamess Square, London, SW1Y 4AD, Kingdom United Kingdom f SIMFER S. A. : Guinea GNF100,000 Ordinary 85 45 Rsidence Dolphine1 Coleah Corniche shares Sud, Commune fide Matam, BP 848, Conakry, BP 848, Guinea Singapore Metals Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Socit Minire Et fide Participations 50 Tougue, Guinea c Guine-Alusuisse: Guinea Sohar Aluminium Co. L. L. C. : Oman OMR1.00 Ordinary shares 20 20 Sohar Industrial Estate, P. O.
Box 80, PC 327, Sohar, Sultanate of Oman THR Aruba Holdings LLC A. V. V. : Aruba US$1.00 Common shares 100 50.8 IMC International Management Trust Company N. V. L. G. Smith Blvd.
62, Miramar Building, Oranjestad, Aruba THR Delaware Holdings, LLC: United 50.8 National Corporate Research, Ltd. 850 c States New Burton Road, Suite 201, Dover fide 19904, United States THR Kharmagtai Pte Ltd. : Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 50.8 068896, Singapore THR MINES BC LTD. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 354-200 Granville Street, Vancouver BC 50.8 V6C 1S4, Canada US$ Common shares 100 199 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 199 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Notes to the 2017 financial statements continued 46 Related undertakings continued Other Group entities including subsidiaries where the effective ownership is less than 100%, associated undertakings and significant holdings in undertakings other than subsidiary companies % of share class held Effective Name of undertaking and country of by Group Group % incorporation Share class companies ownership Registered office address THR Mines Services Co. Ltd. : Canada CAD Common shares 100 50.8 Lackowicz Shier & Hoffman Barristers & Solicitors, 300-204 Black Street, Whitehorse YT Y1A 2M9, Canada THR OYU TOLGOI LTD. : British Virgin US$1.00 Ordinary shares 100 50.8 Midocean Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, Islands Virgin Islands, British THR Ulaan Pte.
Ltd. : Singapore US$ Ordinary shares 100 50.8 77 Robinson Road, #13-00, Robinson 77, 068896, Singapore Tisand Proprietary Limited: South Africa ZAR1.00 A Ordinary shares 100 ZAR1.00 B Ordinary shares 100 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZulu- 74 Natal, South Africa ZAR1,000.00 Cumulative 100 preference shares Tomago Aluminium Company Pty Limited: AUD Ordinary shares 100 51.6 638 Tomago Road, Tomago, NSW 2322, Australia Australia Turquoise Hill Beijing Services Company 50.8 Room 2913, Cameo Center, No.
16 c Ltd: China GuangShun South Street, WangJing ChaoYang District, Beijing China.
100102 Turquoise Hill Netherlands Cooperatief US$ COOP shares 100 50.8 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097 JB U.
A. : Netherlands Amsterdam, The Netherlands Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. : Canada CAD Common shares 50.8 50.8 300-204 Black Street, Whitehorse Yukon Territories Y1A 2M9, Canada Turquoise Hill Resources Philippines Inc. : PHP100.00 Common shares 99.9 50.8 Romulo Mabanta Buenaventura Sayoc & d Philippines fide Los Angeles, 21st Floor, Philamlife Tower, 8767 Paswode Roxas, Makati City, 1226, Philippines Turquoise Hill Resources Singapore Pte SGD1.00 Common shares 100 50.8 1A International Business Park, 609933, Ltd. : Singapore Singapore Twin Falls Power Corporation Ltd: Canada CAD Class B shares 74.4 34.253 Hydro Place, P. O.
Box 12500, St-Johns Newfoundand and Labrador A1B 3T5, Canada Yalleen Pastoral Co Pty Ltd: Australia AUD Ordinary shares 63.7 56 Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 6000, Australia Zululand Titanium Pty Ltd: South Africa ZAR1.00 Ordinary shares 100 74 The Farm RBM, Number 16317, KwaZuluNatal, South Africa 200 200 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information In addition, the Group participates in the following unincorporated arrangements: Interest % owned Name of undertaking and country of incorporation Address or principal place of business by the Group Bao-HI Ranges Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 54 6000, Australia Blair Athol Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 71.2 Cape Bougainville Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 53.8 Channar Mining Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 60 6000, Australia Diavik Joint Venture: Canada 300-5201 50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P9, Canada 60 Gladstone Power Station Joint Venture: Australia NRG Gladstone Operating Service, Gladstone Power Station, 42.1 Gladstone QLD 4680, Australia Grasberg joint operation: Indonesia JI Mandala Raya Selatan, No.
1 Kuala Kencana, Timika, Irian 40 Jaya, 98663, Indonesia Green Mountain Mining Venture: United States 4700 Daybreak Parkway, South Jordan UT 84009, United States 100 Hail Creek Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 82 Hope Downs Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 50 6000, Australia Kestrel Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 80 Mitchell Plateau Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 52.3 Rhodes Ridge Joint Venture: Australia Level 18 Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 50 6000, Australia Robe River Iron Associates Joint Venture: Australia Level 27, Central Park, 152-158 St. Georges Terrace, Perth WA 57.1 6000, Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture: Australia 638 Tomago Road, NSW 2322, Tomago, Australia 51.6 Winchester South Joint Venture: Australia 123 Albert Street, Brisbane QLD 4000, Australia 75 Winter Road Joint Venture: Canada 300-5201 50th Avenue, Yellowknife NT X1A 2P9, Canada 33.3 a Directly held by Rio Tinto Limited.
b Directly held by Rio Tinto plc.
c Group ownership is held through an interest in capital.
The entity has no classes of shares.
d In liquidation or application for dissolution filed.
e Dissolved after 31 December 2017. f Classed as a subsidiary in accordance with section 1162 4 a of the Companies Act 2006 on the grounds of dominant influence.
g This company changed its name to Rio Tinto PACE Australia Pty Limited with effect from 12 January 2018.
"com 201 Rio Tinto plc Company balance sheet 2017 2016 As at 31 December Note US$rn US$m Non-current assets Investments B 36,093 36,050 Trade and other receivables 396 392 36.489 36,442 Current assets Trade and other receivables C 9,242 6,070 Cash at bank and in hand 5 4 9,247 6,074 Total assets 45,736 42,516 Current liabilities Trade and other payables D 12,388 12,223 Dividends payable 18 15 Other financial liabilities G 347 23 12,753 12,262 Non-current liabilities Other financial liabilities G {341 392 Total liabilities {13,094 12,654 Net assets 32,642 29,862 Capital and reserves Share capital E 220 224 Share premium account 4,306 4,304 Other reserves F 11,992 11,988 Retained earnings 16,124 13,346 Total equity 32,642 29,862 The Rio Tinto pie company balance sheet has been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ""Reduced Disclosure Framework"" FRS 101."
Note A explains the principal accounting policies.
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year amounted to US$7,816 million 2016: US$6,875 million.
"As permitted by section 408 of the UK Companies Act 2005, no statement of comprehensive income for the Rio Tinto plc parent company is shown, The Rio Tinto plc company balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income and the related notes were approved by the directors on 28 February 2018 and the balance sheet is signed on their behalf by Jan du Plessis Jean-Sebastien Jacques Chris Lynch Chairman Chief executiVQ Chief financial officer Rio Tinto pie Registered number: 719885 Rio Tinto plc the ""Company"" is incorporated in the United Kingdom, registered in England and Wales, and domiciled in the United Kingdom 202 riotinto."
com I Annual report 2017 Company statement of changes in equity u, .
Share premium Other Retained Total pc capital account reserves earnings equity ::'.
"J m Year ended 31 Dcemher 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$mu 0 Opening balance 224 4,304 11,988 13,346 29,862 :::: Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 7,816 7,816 Dividends 3,255 3,255 Proceeds from issue of shares 2 2 Share buy back 4 4 1,828 1,828 Share based pa:i:ments 45 45 Total 220 4 306 11,992 16,124 32,642 Share Share premium Other Retained Total. """
"capital account reserves earnings eQuity C"" Year ended 31 December 2016 USim US$m US$m US$m US$m -, :-g Opening balance 224 4,300 11,988 8,458 24,970 t Profit for the financial year comprehensive income 6,875 5,875 f. l Dividends 2,046 2,046 r. Proceeds from issue of shares 4 1 5."
com 203 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information c. Currency translation Items included in the financial statements are measured using the Rio Tinto plc currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company continued operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Company's functional and presentation currency.
Transactions denominated in other currencies, A Principal accounting policies including the issue of shares, are translated into the functional a.
Basis of preparation currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
The Rio Tinto plc company financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of certain financial liabilities and in accordance with the UK Companies such transactions, and from the translation at year-end exchange Act 2006 and FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign on a going concern basis.
currencies, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently Exchange rates used are consistent with the rates used by the Group as to all periods presented in these financial statements.
The following disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 41. exemptions available under FRS 101 have been applied: d. Investments Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payment Investments in Group companies are valued at cost less accumulated details of the number and weighted average exercise prices of impairment losses.
Investments are reviewed for impairment if events share options and how the fair value of goods and services received or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may was determined.
Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement e. Financial guarantees of assets and liabilities.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the best Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation comparative information requirements in respect of Paragraph and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation.
The following paragraphs of IAS 1 Presentation of financial f. Share-based payments statements: The Company operates a number of share-based payment plans for Group employees, the details of which are included in the 10 d statement of cash flows : consolidated financial statements note 43.
The fair value of the 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : Company's share plans is recognised as an addition to the cost of the 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, investment in the subsidiary in which the relevant employees work including cash flow statements : over the expected vesting period, with a corresponding entry to 38B-D additional comparative information : retained earnings.
Payments received from the Company's 111 cash flow statement information : and subsidiaries in respect of these share-based payments are recognised 134-136 capital management disclosures.
as a reduction in the cost of the investment.
The Company uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using either a IAS 7 Statement of cash flows.
lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in model.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has attached to the award.
been issued and is not yet effective.
Paragraph 17 of IAS 24 Related party disclosures key Non-market based vesting conditions eg relative EBIT margin management compensation.
performance targets are taken into account in estimating the number The requirements of IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely related-party transactions entered into between two or more to vest is reviewed at each balance sheet date up to the vesting date, members of a group.
at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the b.
Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of awards are forfeited or not exercised.
estimation uncertainty The preparation of the financial statements requires management to g. Dividend income make assumptions, judgments and estimates and to use judgment in Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is applying accounting policies and making critical accounting estimates.
These judgments, estimates and assumptions are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and h. Treasury shares circumstances, having regard to previous experience, but actual The consideration paid for shares repurchased by the Company and results may differ materially from the amounts included in the held as treasury shares is recognised as a reduction in shareholders financial statements.
The key area of judgment that has the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is the review for impairment of investment carrying values.
Investments in Group companies: At 1 January 36,050 - ' 36,180 0 Additions 45 58 ::, :: Disposals 160 Other adjustments 2} 28 At 31 December 36,093 36,050 At 31 December 2017 the Company had the following principal subsidiaries: Country of Percentage Company' Principal activity incorporation shareholding Rio Tinto International Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100 Rio Tinto European Holdings Limited Holding company UK 100 In accordance with Section 409 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a full list of related undertakings is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements note 46.
C Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables includes US$9, 114 million 31 December 2016: US$6,007 million, which is subject to interest based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable an demand.
D Trade and other payables Trade and other payables include US$12,265 million 31 December 2016: US$12,079 million which is subject to interest rates based on LIBOR, is unsecured and repayable on demand.
E Share capital 2017 2016 US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital of 1 Op each l At 1 January 224 224 Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled M 4 At 31 December 220 224 a 26,241 new shares 2016: 33,210 new shares were i sued during the year and 147,126 shares 2016: 743,380 shares were reissued from treasury pursuant to s hare plans.
b During lhe year 32,937,109 shares 2016: nit shares were purchased and immediately cancelled.
F Other reserves During 2017, fees of US$44 million 2016: US$13 million were received from Oyu Tolgoi LLC and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd as Other serves include US$11,936 million 2015: US$11,936 million consideration for provision of the CSU with an additional balance of which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue US$12 million 31 December 2015: US$13 million due and included price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto pie's rights issue within Current Assets - Trade and other receivables.
Rio Tinto plc has provided a number of guarantees in relation to G Rio Tinto plc guarantees various pension funds.
Subject to certain conditions, Rio Tinto pie Rio Tinto plc provides a number of guarantees in respect of Group would pay any contributions due from Group companies participating companies.
in these funds in the event that the companies fail to meet their Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have jointly guaranteed the Group's contribution requirements.
The guarantees were not called upon in external listed debt under the US Shelf Programme, European Debt 2017.
The aggregate of company contributions to these plans in 2017 Issuance Programme and Commercial Paper Programme which totalled was US$51 million 2016: US$94 million, US$7.9 billion at 31 December 2017 31 December 2015: US$10.2 Other guarantees issued by Rio Tinto pie in relation to Rio Tinto Group billion.
In addition, these entities also jointly guarantee the Group's entities as at 31 December 2017 amount t o US$338 million 31 undrawn credit facility which was US$7.5 billion at 31 December 2017 December 201 6: US$337 million.
Included within t his balance is 31 December 2016: US$7.
Rio Tinto plc has provided US$50 million 31 December 2016: US$60 million in relation to non guarantees in respect of certain derivative contracts that are in a liability wholly awned subsidiaries.
position of US$231 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: Pursuant to the DLC Merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limit ed US$458 million.
:li issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed V' Rio Tinto plc has provided a guarantee, known as the completion contractual obligations incurred by the other or guaranteed by the support undertaking CSU, in favour of the Oyu Tolgoi LLC project other.
At 31 December 2017 U S$4.3 billion of project The liability recognised for financial guarantees is US$389 million 31 finance debt was outstanding under this facility 31 December 2016: December 2016: US$415 million.
Oyu Tolgoi LLC is owned by Erdenes Oyu Tolgoi LLC 34 per cent, which is controlled by the Government of Mongolia, and H Contingent Liabilities Turquoise l-lill Resources Ltd 66 per cent, of which Rio Tinto owns 51 Details of contingent liabilities are included in note 31 to the Group per cent.
The project finance has been raised for development of the Financial Statements.
underground mine and the CSU will terminate on the completion of the underground mine according to a set of completion tests set out I Events after the balance sheet date in the project finance facility.
On 7 February 2018, the Group announced an on-market share buy back programme of US$1.0 billion Rio Tinto plc shares: this is in The Rio Tinto guarantee applies to the extent that Turquoise Hill addition to US$1.925 billion under the US$2,5 billion programme Resources Ltd cannot satisfy Oyu Tolgoi LLC's project finance debt announced on 21 September 2017 which started on 27 December servicing obligations under its own guarantee to the lenders, called 2017.
Rio Tinto pie shares that have been bought back under these the sponsor debt service undertaking DSU.
Both the CSU and DSU programmes during 2018 have been cancelled and announcements contain a carve-out for certain political risk events.
have been made to the relevant stock exchanges.
com 205 Rio Tinto financial information by business unit GroH rl!'vl!null!
"a 1 E81TOA"" Net earnings l fer the 'I."
ear ended 31 December for the lear ended 31 Decl!mber for the eil!lr l!
e:, rnings 18,580 13,510 12,621 8,627 5,100 4,540 Items e cluded from underl ling E-BITDA earnl ngs 10 18 1,912 687 563 1 l 135 483 5.406 EBITDA net e:, rnin s 20,492 12,823 12,058 8,762 4,617 866 Reconciliation lo Group income statement Share of equity accounted unit sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 1,837 1,555 1,955 Depreciation & amortisation in subsidia ies excluding capitalised depreciation 4,302 4, fi91 {4,553 Impairment charges, net of reversals 796 249 2,791 Depreciation & amortisation in equity accounted units 648 526 462 Ta, ation and finance items in e!juit accounted units 272 241 276 Consolidated sales revenue profit on ordina!:J!
I ati on & Operating assets c i v, I Capital 11:!xpendlture I } aimc rtisati on Employees Ill 2:J for the year for the year for the year for the year ended 31 Decembef ended 31 Dec. ember ended 31 December f!nd ed 31 December G, .
1: lntersegment transactions, ::JC, 206 142 242 u Net assets liabilities of disposal rl: groups held for sale r 370 7 182 - '.
11lant and eguii, ment 138 354 97 Total capital expenditure per cash flow statement 4482 3 012 4,685 Less: Net debt 3,845 9,587 13,783 Less: EAU funded balances excluded from net debt Equity attributable to owners of Rio C, Tinto 44,711 39,290 37,349 :::' - I 1: 2 t.. : T Y.... !
com 207 Production, reserves and operations Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Additional information Notes to financial information by business unit j Includes Rio Tinto's interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane 100 per cent, QIT Madagascar Minerals QMM, 80 per cent and Richards Business units are classified according to the Groups management Bay Minerals attributable interest of 74 per cent.
Certain comparative amounts have been reallocated to appropriately represent changes in management responsibility.
k Includes Rio Tintos interests in Energy Resources of Australia 68.4 per cent and Rssing Uranium Limited 68.6 per cent.
a Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units on a proportionately consolidated basis after l Simfer Jersey Limited, a company incorporated in Jersey in which adjusting for sales to subsidiaries in addition to consolidated the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has an 85 per cent interest in sales.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales to Simfer S. A. the company that manages the Simandou project in equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 45.05 per cent indirect interest revenue.
These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Simandou iron ore project.
b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Group's share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance m Other Operations include Rio Tintos 100 per cent interest in the items, depreciation and amortisation charged to the income curtailed Gove alumina refinery and Rio Tinto Marine.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same n Central office costs, central Growth & Innovation costs and other items that are excluded from underlying earnings.
central items are reported in Other items.
The loss in Other items c Represents profit after tax for the period attributable to the includes restructuring, project and other one off costs of US$177 owners of the Rio Tinto Group.
Business unit earnings are stated million pre-tax in 2017.
The increased loss also reflects an before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related increase in Information Systems & Technology spend and further to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include investment in the Commercial Centre in Singapore and capability amounts that are excluded in arriving at underlying earnings.
to support the Groups Mine to Market Productivity programme.
d Pilbara represents the Groups 100 per cent holding in Hamersley, o Capital expenditure comprises the net cash outflow on purchases 50 per cent holding of Hope Downs Joint Venture and 65 per cent less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised holding of Robe River Iron Associates.
The Groups net beneficial evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible interest in Robe River Iron Associates is 53 per cent as 30 per cent assets.
The details provided include 100 per cent of subsidiaries is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary and 35 per cent is capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital held through a 100 per cent owned subsidiary.
expenditure of joint operations and equity accounted units.
e Presented on an integrated operations basis splitting activities p Operating assets of subsidiaries comprise net assets excluding between Bauxite & Alumina, Primary Metal, Pacific Aluminium and post-retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, and are before Other integrated operations which in total reflect the results of deducting net debt.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of the integrated production of aluminium and Other product group non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the items which relate to other commercial activities.
net assets of the relevant companies ie inclusive of such companies debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group f Through a joint venture agreement with Freeport-McMoRan Inc. companies.
Freeport, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of material mined above an agreed threshold as a consequence of expansions and q Capital expenditure in 2016 for Rio Tinto Coal Australia includes developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. net proceeds of US$192 million for the disposal of 100 per cent interest in the Mount Pleasant thermal coal project to MACH g Rio Tintos interest in Oyu Tolgoi is held indirectly through its 50.8 Energy Australia Pty Ltd on 5 August 2016. per cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd TRQ, where TRQs principal asset is its 66 per cent investment in Oyu Tolgoi LLC, r Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2017 comprise of which owns the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine.
Rio Tintos interest in the Dunkerque aluminium smelter and certain other separate assets.
h Includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent and Diavik 60 per cent.
Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2016 comprise Rio Tintos interests in the Blair Athol coal project and certain i On 1 September, 2017, Rio Tinto disposed of its 100 per cent separate assets.
shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal Australia Limited.
Assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 December 2015 comprised Rio Tintos interests in the Blair Athol coal project, Carbone Savoie As at 31 December 2016, this included Rio Tintos 100 per cent disposed of on 31 March 2016, Bengalla disposed of on 1 March shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited and its wholly- 2016, and certain other separate assets.
Rio Tinto as a 100 per cent owner of Coal & Allied held a 67.6 per cent, 80 per cent and 55.6 per cent respectively, with management rights, in Hunter Valley Operations, Mount Thorley and Warkworth.
On 1 March 2016, Coal & Allied disposed of its 40 per cent interest in Bengalla Joint Venture and on 5 August 2016, Coal & Allied disposed of its 100 per cent interest in the Mount Pleasant project.
Both were included up until their respective disposal dates.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single company with their respective shareholders being the Australian Corporations Act shareholders in that single company : and summary of ASIC relief with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts: consolidated loss profit for the financial year, total consolidated comprehensive loss income for the financial year and Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations total consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an 117. order dated 14 December 2015 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in from certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation to the relation to their compliance with relevant Australian and UK Companys financial statements and associated reports.
Rio Tinto Limited must also prepare a Directors report essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited which satisfies the content requirements of the Corporations Act since the formation of the Groups dual listed companies DLC applied on the basis that for these purposes the consolidated entity structure in 1995.
The order applies to Rio Tinto Limiteds financial is the Group, and the consolidated financial statements cover the reporting obligations for the financial years and half-years ending Group.
This includes a Remuneration Report see pages 70 to 105 between 31 December 2015 and 30 June 2020 inclusive.
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Corporations In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to Act.
prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the controlled entities, the order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their including timing requirements in relation to those consolidated respective controlled entities are treated as a single economic entity.
financial statements including any concise financial statements, the In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be Auditors report and the Directors report.
The Corporations Act also prepared: requires that a non-binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration in accordance with the principles and requirements of Report be voted on by shareholders at the Companys annual general International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the meeting.
European Union EU IFRS rather than the Australian Accounting Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated Standards AAS except for one limited instance in the case of financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities.
Rio Tinto any concise report, and in accordance with UK financial reporting Limited is also not required to prepare and lodge parent entity obligations generally: financial statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial on the basis that the transitional provisions of International year.
Financial Reporting Standard 1, First-time Adoption of International Rio Tinto Limited must, however, in accordance with the Corporations Financial Reporting Standards, should be applied using the Act include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as combined financial statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto a note, various parent entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited Limited, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities under including in relation to assets, liabilities, shareholders equity, profit Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, and loss, income, guarantees, contingent liabilities, and contractual under which the DLC Merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio commitments prepared in accordance with AAS see page 182.
Tinto plc was accounted for using merger, rather than acquisition, accounting reflecting that neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is controlled by, the other: and meaning that the existing carrying amounts, rather than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of the DLC Merger were used to measure those assets and liabilities at formation : 209 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
