CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT ON REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring Executive Directors are rewarded forthelongterm success of the Company rather than shortterm returns.
Summary of major decisions and activities in 2017 DEAR SHAREHOLDER In 2016, assisted by PwC, the Committee conducted a thorough On behalf of the Board, I am presenting the Remuneration review of the Remuneration Policy.
The review took into account Committees Committees report for 2017 on Directors feedback received from major shareholders and emerging best remuneration.
The report isdivided into three main sections: practice, including the report of the Investment Association our Annual Statement, which provides a summary of the year dated 3 July 2016 and the final report of the Executive under review and the Committees intentions going forward: Remuneration Working Group dated July 2016.
A number ofamendments to our Directors Remuneration Policy for the Directors Remuneration PolicyReport, which was theperiod 2017 to 2019 the 2017 Policy were made and formally approved by shareholders at the 2017Annual wereapproved by shareholders at the AGM in April 2017.
General Meeting AGM on 26 April 2017 and sets out the forwardlooking threeyear Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 Board changes for the Company which commenced 1January 2017: and On 11 January 2017, Tullow announced anumber of changes to the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration, which provides its Board whichbecame effective following the Companys AGM detailsof the remuneration earned by Directors in the year on 26 April 2017: ended 31December 2017.
Paul McDade, formerly Chief Operating Officer, was appointed Chief Executive Officer.
Pauls remuneration package was set in accordance with the 2017 Remuneration Policy see pages 84 to 87.
Our shareholder Simon Thompson stepped down fromthe role of Chairman consultation on the and from the Tullow Board.
policy demonstrates Aidan Heavey, formerly Chief Executive Officer, was appointed our commitment to asnonexecutive Chairman for a transitional period of up to two years.
For the period up to the AGM when Aidan was CEO provide you with and for a period of six months thereafter Aidans remuneration clarity and was unchanged.
This amount was determined to be appropriate transparency.
by the Committee and includes consideration for: i Aidans service as Chairman ofthe Board: ii compensation for abridging his contractual notice period with the Group: and iii Aidan being available on an exclusive and fulltime basis for the sixmonth period.
After this period, Aidan received aChairmans fee of 280,000 per annum and is expected to dedicate atleast 70 days per year to his duties as Chairman.
Ann Grant retired and was replaced as Senior Independent Director SID by Jeremy Wilson.
With the previous Chief Executive Officer becoming nonexecutive Chairman, the SID role will have increased responsibilities and will require more time and effort than in previous years.
Accordingly, the SID fee was increased from 10,000 as at January 2017 to 40,000 from 26 April 2017.
TUTU AGYARE, CHAIRMAN OF THE  78 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 2017 Remuneration Policy withthe wider decisions made regarding employee pay.
The Policy is based on a structure linking the Groups ongoing The Chairmans fee is 280,000 and the base nonexecutive strategy and business goals to performance.
Set out below are Directors fee is set at 60,000. the main features of the 2017 Policy which are explained in greater detail in the Remuneration Policy Report.
The performance targets set for 2017 in respect of the TIP awards to be granted in 2017 were challenging in the context Tullow Incentive Plan TIP ofthe time and proved even more so as the year progressed.
The maximum annual award opportunity is 400 per cent Regarding Total Shareholder Return TSR measured over a ofbase salary.
threeyear period, performance has been poor and consequently a score of zero per cent is attributed to this performance Full vesting of the TSR performance condition to be triggered metric.
Conversely, the Group performed well on its strategic, at upper quartile 75th percentile performance.
financial and operational targets for the year.
The Committee is Discretion to settle any portion of the annual cash bonus particularly pleased with the achievement of strategic financing, capital management and production, all of which support the component of a TIP award in deferred shares.
deleveraging of Tullows balance sheet and generation of free The Committee believes that the Policy at these levels align cash flow.
The net result of these various factors produced an interests of management and shareholders and incentivise, overall scorecard performance of 39.7 per cent, resulting in a motivate and retain our valued Executive Directors.
Further cash bonus of 79.4 per cent of salary and a further 79.4 per cent of details are shown in the Directors Remuneration Policy Report.
salary awarded in shares deferred for five years.
Full details of performance against the KPIs is shown on pages 20 to 23.
Performance and reward for 2017 The Committee continues to monitor Executive base salaries in Shareholder dialogue an effort to remain competitive and appropriately placed in the Your views of remuneration are important to the Board and for international oil and gas industry.
Base salaries are reviewed that reason the Committee consulted with shareholders on the annually.
The Committee used the approved 2017 Policy 2017 Policy in late 2016 and early 2017.
important and demonstrated our commitment to provide you with clarity and transparency about our 2017 Policy.
We expect In conjunction with the Board changes, salaries for the Executive the 2017 Policy to be in operation for a period of three years: Directors were adjusted to take into account Tullows market however, should any changes be considered appropriate to position and benchmark data for the international oil and gas propose, major shareholders shall be consulted.
The overall impact of this change was a reduction in CEO, CFO and Exploration Director salaries: on his appointment to Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank CEO, Paul McDades salary was increased to 725,000: on his shareholders for their significant vote approving the 2016 Annual appointment to CFO, Les Woods salary was set at 435,000: Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration at the last AGM and Angus McCoss salary was adjusted to 410,000.
In summary, and look forward to your continued support over the coming year.
the totality of these changes reduces the ED salary cost by If you have any comments or questions on any element of the 18.2per cent compared with the salaries for these positions in2016.
The totality of these changes in 2017 reduced the report, please email me at remunerationchair@tullowoil.
Executive Directors salary cost by 18 per cent compared with the salaries for these positions in 2016.
Furthermore, this reduction and the reduction in senior managers as a result ofestablishment of the new Executive Team see pages 12 and13 hasled to a 19 per cent reduction in salary costs forTullows senior leadership team, compared with 2016.
Tutu Agyare For 2018, in view of UK inflation, salary inflation and benchmarking Chairman of the Remuneration Committee data, the Committee decided to increase thesalaries of the 6 February 2018 Executive Directors by 3 per cent.
This decision is consistent www.
com 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Preparation of this report COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Large and FIXED PAY Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, which came into force on BASE SALARY 1October 2013 and which set out the reporting requirements inrespect of Directors remuneration, and the Listing Rules.
Thelegislation requires the external auditor to state whether, inits opinion, the parts of the report that are subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with the relevant legislation and these parts have been highlighted.
PENSION & BENEFITS Pension DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Benefits REPORT VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE Medical insurance Although Tullow is not required to present the current Permanent health insurance Life assurance Remuneration Policy Report this year, nor to submit the Remuneration Policy to a binding vote, in line with best practice on corporate reporting, we have included for reference on the following pages the Remuneration Policy for the Company which commenced 1 January 2017 and became formally effective following approval from shareholders through a binding PERFORMANCE voteatthe 2017 AGM.
This section also explains how the RELATED Remuneration Policy will be operated during 2018.
TULLOW INCENTIVE PLAN Policy overview Annual award of cash up to 100 per cent of salary The principles of the Remuneration Committee Committee Balance awarded in shares are to ensure that remuneration is linked to Tullows strategy up to 300 per cent of salary and promote the attraction, motivation and retention of the highest quality executives who are key to delivering sustainable longterm value growth and substantial returns to shareholders.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received attheAGM each year and, more generally, guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
This feedback, plus any TOTAL REMUNERATION additional feedback received during any meetings from time totime, is considered as part of the Companys annual review of the continuing appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Glossary In setting the Remuneration Policy and remuneration levels for AGM Annual General Meeting Executive Directors, the Committee is cognisant of the approach to rewarding employees in the Group and levels of pay increases Capex Capital expenditure generally.
The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on the Executive pay policy, but it does receive DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan regular updates from Claire Hawkings, Executive Vice President, Organisational Strategy & Company Performance EVP OS&CP.
EHS Environment, Health & Safety The following differences exist between the Companys policy ESOS 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme for the remuneration of Executive Directors, as detailed in the summary table overleaf, and its approach to the payment of HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs employees generally: Opex Operating expenses PSP Performance Share Plan SIP UK Share Incentive Plan TIP Tullow Incentive Plan TSR Total Shareholder Return 80 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 position within the FTSE, despite stretching performance benefits offered to other employees generally include a targets that make that level of reward achievable only in performance bonus award of up to 35 per cent of salary: exceptional circumstances.
We therefore recommended a pension provision of a payment of 10 per cent of salary into our reduction in the maximum award opportunity to 400percent Company defined contribution plan, increasing to15 per cent of base salary to better reflect our current market position.
of salary for employees over 50: and Inthe event that the Company returns to the FTSE 100 Index and remains there for an entire financial year, the Committee participation in the TIP is limited to the Executive Directors and reserved the right, at its sole discretion, to increase the Senior Management according to their role and responsibility.
multiplier to 500 per cent of base salary for the subsequent year.
All other employees are eligible to participate in the Companys below Board level sharebased plans.
Full vesting of the TSR performance condition to be triggered at upper quartile 75th percentile performance instead of upper In general, these differences exist to ensure that remuneration quintile 80th percentile.
arrangements are market competitive for all levels of role in In consultation with PwC, the Committee determined thata the Company.
Whilst there is a performance link to remuneration maximum vesting of the TSR performance condition at upper for all employees, in the case of the Executive Directors and quartile performance is appropriate and in line with industry Senior Management, a greater emphasis tends to be placed practice within the FTSE and internationally.
Particularly in onvariable pay given their opportunity to impact directly upon light of the 200 per cent reduction to the overall maximum Company performance.
award opportunity the Committee believes that this is an appropriate adjustment to provide a challenging yet Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy achievable incentive to the Executive Directors.
The table on pages 84 to 87 sets out a summary of each element of the Directors remuneration packages, their link to Discretion to settle any portion of the annual cash bonus the Companys strategy, the policy for how these are operated, component of a Tullow Incentive Plan TIP award in the maximum opportunity and the performance framework.
Although not part of the Remuneration Policy Report, the TIP awards consist of a shortterm bonus component usually column to the right of the table also sets out how the paid in cash and a longterm incentive component paid in Committee intends to apply the policy for 2018. deferred shares with a fiveyear vesting term.
Anumber of institutional investor bodies, governance agencies and advisory Key changes in 2017 firms encourage the deferral of a portion of cash bonus The Committee believes that the basic structure of the previous intodeferred shares.
The Committee believes that the TIP Remuneration Policy worked well to align the interestsof our properly balances shortterm cash incentives with longterm Executives and our shareholders.
The changes which were sharebased awards but that in certain circumstances it may proposed by the Committee and were approved by our be appropriate for the cash component to be partially deferred shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 are reflected into shares with a vesting period not less than one year from in the table overleaf and are designed to provide increased the date of grant.
This discretion provides the Committee flexibility in the Remuneration Policy to respond to volatile with greater flexibility to craft awards that are appropriate market conditions and to realign Executive compensation tothe performance of the Company in a given year while withpeer companies, both in the international exploration alsoensuring proper alignment of the interests of the andproduction sector and having regard to FTSE companies ExecutiveDirectors and our shareholders.
Minimum shareholding requirement reduced to 300 per cent Significant changes in the 2017 Policy included: ofbase salary.
Tullows previous shareholding policy prohibited Executive 1 Executive Directors Directors from selling more than 50 per cent of posttax The maximum annual award opportunity for the TIP was vesting share awards until such time as their shareholding reduced from 600 per cent of base salary to 400 per cent exceeded 400 per cent of base salary rising to 600 per cent ofbase salary.
on the first vesting of the TIP.
It was previously Tullows policy The period from 2014 to 2016 saw a dramatic decline in to include unvested and unexercised awards in this calculation oilprices and in Tullows share price.
We remain focused on and that was the basis for setting such an extraordinarily increasing shareholder value and reentering the FTSE 100 high shareholding requirement.
Guidance has now clarified as soon as possible.
However, following feedback from that unvested awards should not be counted in minimum shareholders, consultation with PwC and completion of shareholding requirements and accordingly the Committee abenchmarking exercise, the Committee believed that a has reduced the multiple of base salary for Executive Director 600per cent multiplier is inappropriate for Tullows current shareholdings but specified that it will only include owned shares in the calculation of these amounts.
The Committee believes that, at 300 per cent of base salary, Tullows minimum shareholding requirement still significantly exceeds the average minimum shareholding requirement across the FTSE.
com 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2 Non-executive Directors The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains Nonexecutive Director fees are reviewed annually and in 2017, discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and the Committee and the Board with each Director abstaining administration of the plans in relation to Senior Management, from any decision on their own remuneration recommended including Executive Directors.
These include but are not limited that the Chairmans fee be reduced from 310,500 to 280,000 to the following albeit with the level of award restricted as set and each of the nonexecutive Director fees be reduced from out in the policy table overleaf : 69,500 to 60,000.
Additional responsibility fees paid to who participates: Committee Chairs remained unchanged, save that the fee paid to the Chair of the Ethics & Compliance Committee was the timing of grant of awards and or payment: increased from 5,000 to 10,000.
That Committee has since the size of awards and or payment: been dissolved since the transition of its responsibilities were passed to the Executive.
The above reductions in fees payable discretion relating to the measurement of performance to the current Chairman and the nonexecutive Directors reflect intheevent of a change of control or reconstruction: the cost pressures in the oil and gas industry and Tullows determination of a good leaver in addition to any current position within the FTSE.
specifiedcategories for incentive plan purposes and As part of the fee reductions above, the fee for our former agoodleavers treatment: Senior Independent Director, Ann Grant, was decreased from adjustments to awards required in certain circumstances 15,000 to 10,000 until her retirement date.
However, in e. g. Rights Issues, corporate restructuring and special view of the increased responsibilities and time commitment dividends : and of the SID role in the new Tullow Board since 26 April 2017, the SID fee was then increased to 40,000. the ability to adjust existing performance conditions forexceptional events so that they can still fulfil their From the conclusion of the AGM, Aidan Heavey continued to originalpurpose.
receive his then existing remuneration including all benefits for a period of six months.
That amount was determined to be The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the appropriate by the Committee and included consideration for: TIP, which are set by the Committee at the start of the relevant i Aidans service as Chairman of the Board: ii compensation financial year, reflects the Committees belief that any incentive for abridging his contractual notice period with the Group: compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to and iii Aidan being available on an exclusive and fulltime the delivery of stretching financial, operational and TSRrelated basis for that sixmonth period.
Following the conclusion of objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of Tullows the sixmonth period, Aidan now receives a Chairmans fee longterm strategy.
of 280,000 per annum which is in line with the reduced As a result of the switch from: i a threeyear PSP vesting Chairmans fee in effect as at 1 January 2017.
Following that period to a fiveyear TIP vesting period: and ii prevesting initial sixmonth period, Aidan is expected to dedicate at least performance conditions to pregrant performance conditions, 70 days per year to his duties as Chairman.
the following transitional arrangements applied in the early years of the TIPs operation: Operation of share plans The Committee will operate the TIP and legacy plans according to cover the gap between 2016 when the 2013 PSP awards to their respective rules and in accordance with theListing the final set of awards under this plan vest and 2019 when Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
the deferred TIP shares granted in 2014 in relation to 2013 82 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 would otherwise normally vest, instead of vesting over five at the start of the relevant financial year, reflects the years the deferred TIP shares granted in 2014 have vested Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be 50per cent after three years i. e. 2017 and 50per cent will appropriately challenging and tied to the delivery of stretching vest after four years i. e. 2018 and the deferred TIP shares financial, operational and total shareholder return TSR granted in 2015 will vest 50 per cent after four years i. e. 2019 related objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of and 50 per cent after five years i. e. 2020.
Deferred TIP Tullows longterm strategy.
shares granted in 2016 in relation to the performance period Following completion of the financial year, the Committee ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent deferred TIP share willreview the Companys performance against the corporate grants will vest after five years from grant: and scorecard resulting in a percentage score.
The multiple set to reduce the impact of overlapping performance periods, bythe Committee is then applied to the percentage score to theTSR performance period for TIP awards made in 2014 determine the total TIP award amount.
A TIP award is divided was measured over the 2013 financial year, the performance equally between cash bonus and deferred shares up to the first period for TIP awards granted in 2015 was measured over the 200 per cent of base salary.
Any portion of a TIP award above 201314 financial years and the 2016 awards were measured 200 per cent of base salary shall be satisfied in deferred shares over the 201415 financial years operating a threeyear TSR only.
Deferred shares forming part of a TIP award are normally performance period for early TIP awards would create an deferred for five years and are normally subject to malus and overlap with past PSP awards.
TSR, in relation to the 2017 clawback.
In its discretion, the Committee may elect to satisfy and subsequent TIP awards, was and will be based on a any portion of the cash bonus element of a TIP award in deferred threeyear performance period ending with the financial year shares which will be deferred for a period determined by the ending immediately prior to grant.
Committee, being not less than one year from the date of grant.
Deferred shares issued in lieu of any portion of the cash bonus In addition to the TIP, Executive Directors are also eligible to component of a TIP award shall be subject to malus, clawback participate in the UK SIP on the same terms as other employees.
and the minimum shareholding requirements set out in the All employee share plans do not operate performance conditions.
Calculation of TIP awards Legacy remuneration In addition to base salary and other benefits described in the For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, each Executive Director shall be eligible Remuneration Policy, authority was given to the Company to receive an award issued under the rules of the TIP a TIP tohonour any commitments entered into with current or award.
The TIP combines short and longterm incentivebased former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in pay and includes a cash bonus component and a deferred previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to share award component.
former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on At the beginning of each financial year, the Committee will Remuneration as they arise.
determine a multiple of base salary, subject to the limits established under this Policy, to apply to a TIP award.
At the same time the Committee will also determine a balanced corporate scorecard of performance metrics applicable to anyTIP award.
The choice of the performance metrics and theweightings given to them, which are set by the Committee www.
com 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2018 this forms part of the Annual Report to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable onRemuneration and not part of the Policy Report Any increases to current Executive Director Base salary To provide an Generally reviewed annually with increases A broad assessment of individual and business performance is used as partof Current Executive Director base salaries: appropriatelevel of normally effective from 1 January.
Base salaries, presented in the Application of the salary review.
2018 Policy in 2018 column to the right of this fixedcash income.
salaries will be set by the Committee taking Paul McDade 746,750 into account: policy table, will not normally exceed the To attract and retain average increase awarded to other UKbased Angus McCoss 422,300 individuals with the the scale, scope and responsibility of employees.
Increases may be above this personal attributes, skills therole: Les Wood 448,050 levelin certain circumstances, for instance and experience required the skills and experience of the individual: ifthere is an increase in the scale, scope or to deliver ourstrategy.
the base salary of other employees, responsibility of the role or to allow the base including increases awarded to the wider salary of newly appointed executives to move population: and towards market norms as their experience and contribution increase.
the base salary of individuals undertaking similar roles in companies of comparable size and complexity.
This may include international oil & gas sector companies or a broader group of FTSElisted organisations.
To attract and retain Defined contribution pension scheme or Pension: 25% of base salary.
Pension and individuals with the salary supplement in lieu of pension.
The benefits Benefits: The range of benefits that may be personal attributes, skills Company does not operate or have any provided is set by the Committee after taking and experience required legacy defined benefit pension schemes.
into account local market practice in the to deliver ourstrategy.
Medical insurance, income protection and country where the Executive is based.
Additional benefits may be monetary maximum is given for benefits provided as appropriate.
provided to the Executive Directors as the cost will depend on individual circumstances.
Executive Directors may participate in the Benefit values vary year on year depending on Tullow UK Share Incentive Plan SIP.
premiums and the maximum potential value is the cost oftheprovision of these benefits.
Tullow UK SIP: Up to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC limits, currently 150per month.
Maximum participation levels and matching levels for all staff, including Executive Directors, are set by reference to the rules of the plan and relevant legislation.
84 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2018 this forms part of the Annual Report to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable onRemuneration and not part of the Policy Report Any increases to current Executive Director Base salary To provide an Generally reviewed annually with increases A broad assessment of individual and business performance is used as partof Current Executive Director base salaries: appropriatelevel of normally effective from 1 January.
com 85 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2018 this forms part of the Annual Report to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable onRemuneration and not part of the Policy Report To provide a simple, An annual TIP award consisting of up to The maximum amount of any Award shall be A balanced scorecard of stretching financial and operational objectives, linked to the The corporate scorecard for 2018 will consist of: Tullow competitive, 400per cent of base salary which is divided established by the Committee at the beginning achievement of Tullows longterm strategy will be used to assess TIP outcomes.
Incentive Plan 50 per cent based on relative TSR, over the threeyear performancelinked evenly between cash and deferred shares up of each year of this policy, provided it shall not Specific targets and their weighting will vary from year to year in accordance period prior to grant, against a comparator group of oil and TIP incentive plan that: to the first 200 per cent of base salary.
Any exceed 400 per cent of salary for Executive with strategic priorities but may include targets relating to: relative or absolute gas exploration companies with a threshold 25 per cent of amount above 200 per cent of base salary Directors.
aligns the interests Total Shareholder Return TSR : earnings per share EPS : Environmental, the award vesting at median performance and a maximum 1 isawarded entirely in deferred shares.
ofmanagement Dividend equivalents will accrue on TIP Health and Safety EHS : financial: production: operations: project: exploration: 100 per cent vesting at upper quartile performance: andshareholders: Deferred shares are normally subject for deferred shares over the vesting period, and or specific strategic and personal objectives.
At the end of each year the 5 per cent based on strategic financing measures: deferral until the fifth anniversary of grant, will be payable in respect of shares that vest.
Committee will determine a performance score against each of the components promotes the 22 per cent based on production, operational, safety and normally subject to continued service.
of the corporate scorecard which will result in an aggregate performance longterm success In the event that Tullow is a member ofthe organisational measures: and score out of 100 per cent KPI Score.
At least 50 per cent of any TIP award ofthe Company: TIP awards are nonpensionable and FTSE 100 Index for a full financial year during 18 per cent based on business development and willbe based on financial measures including TSR.
willbemade in line with the Committees the term of this Remuneration Policy, the provides a real growthobjectives.
Committee reserves the discretion to increase Performance will typically be measured over one year for all measures apart incentive to achieve The Committee has set specific targets for the above KPIs the maximum TIP award opportunity from from TSR and EPS, which, if adopted, will normally be measured over the our strategic At the discretion of the Committee, that are stretching and that are explicitly linked to the 400per cent of base salary to 500 per cent of three financial years prior to grant.
objectives and deliver anyportion of the cash component of achievement of Tullows longterm strategy.
base salary should the Committee determine superior shareholder aTIPaward can be satisfied by granting For relative TSR, no more than 25 per cent of the maximum TIP opportunity it appropriate to do so in the circumstances.
The Committee is of the opinion that, given the commercial returns: and deferredshares with a vesting date set by will be payable for threshold performance with 100 per cent payable on sensitivity of Tullows nonTSRrelated KPIs, disclosing in the Committee being not earlier than the delivering upper quartile performance.
will attract, retain and advance precise targets for the TIP would not be in shareholders first anniversary of grant.
motivate individuals NonTSR targets will normally be based on a challenging sliding scale with interests.
Except in circumstances where elements remain with the required 20per cent of the maximum opportunity payable for threshold performance commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved personal attributes, through to a maximum of 100 per cent payable for delivering stretch performance.
and awards made will be published at the end of the skills andexperience.
The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in the event of performance periods so shareholders can fully assess exceptional and unforeseen positive or negative developments during the thebasis for any payouts.
In addition, the Committee reserves the right to reduce The final 5 per cent of the corporate scorecard the TIP payment where the Committee considers that the level of payment is willbedetermined by the Committee, based on not commensurate with overall corporate performance and returns delivered .
to shareholders over the performance period.
Details of actual performance against KPIs will be given The Committee will review performance measures annually, in terms of the retrospectively in the 2018 Annual Report.
range of targets, the measures themselves and weightings applied to each element of the TIP.
Any revisions to the measures and or weightings will only take place if it is necessary because of developments in the Groups strategy and, where these are material, following appropriate consultation with shareholders.
TIP awards are subject to malus and clawback.
The Committee retains discretion to apply malus and clawback to both the cash and deferred share elements of the TIP during the fiveyear vesting period in the event of a material adverse restatement of the financial accounts or reserves or a catastrophic failure of operational, EHS and risk management.
To align the interests Executive Directors are required to retain at Not applicable.
Minimum ofmanagement and least 50 per cent of posttax share awards shareholding shareholders and untilaminimum shareholding equivalent requirement promote a longterm to300per cent of base salary is achieved approach to performance inowned shares.
Unvested TIP shares and risk management.
will not count towards the minimum shareholding requirement.
Shares included in this calculation are those held beneficially by the Executive Director and his or her spouse civil partner.
To provide an appropriate The Chairman is paid an annual fee and the Nonexecutive Director remuneration is Not applicable.
Current nonexecutive Director fees: Nonfee level to attract nonexecutive Directors are paid a base fee determined within the limits set by the Articles executive 2018 2017 individuals with the and additional responsibility fees for the role of Association.
Directors 2 Chairman 280,000 280,000 necessary experience of Senior Independent Director or for chairing There is no maximum prescribed fee increase and ability to make a a Board Committee.
Nonexecutive base fee 60,000 60,000 although fee increases for nonexecutive significant contribution 3 Fees are normally reviewed annually.
Directors will not normally exceed the average Senior Independent Director 40,000 40,000 to the Groups activities 4 increase awarded to Executive Directors.
10,000 Each nonexecutive Director is also entitled while also reflecting the Increases may be above this level if there is an toareimbursement of necessary travel and Audit Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 time commitment and increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of otherexpenses.
Remuneration Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 responsibility of the role.
Nonexecutive Directors do not participate in any EHS Committee Chair 15,000 15,000 share scheme or annual bonus scheme and are E&C Committee Chair N A 10,000 not eligible to join the Groups pension schemes.
Under the rules of the TIP, deferred shares may be awarded in the form of conditional shares, forfeitable shares or nilcost options at the discretion of the Committee.
To date, all TIP awards have been made in the form of nilcost options.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and link Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery Application of policy in 2018 this forms part of the Annual Report to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity of sums paid payable onRemuneration and not part of the Policy Report To provide a simple, An annual TIP award consisting of up to The maximum amount of any Award shall be A balanced scorecard of stretching financial and operational objectives, linked to the The corporate scorecard for 2018 will consist of: Tullow competitive, 400per cent of base salary which is divided established by the Committee at the beginning achievement of Tullows longterm strategy will be used to assess TIP outcomes.
Aidans Executive salary of 886,080 payable to 31 October 2017.
Thereafter, Aidan received a Chairmans fee of 280,000 per annum which is in line with the reduced Chairmans fee in effect as at 1 January 2017.
com 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors External appointments The charts below show how the composition of the Executive The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation to the Directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of number of external directorships that an Executive Director may performance under the Remuneration Policy, as a percentage hold, considering any potential appointments on a casebycase oftotal remuneration opportunity and as a total value: basis.
During 2017, Angus McCoss sought the Boards permission, which was agreed, to take up a nonexecutive Director role with Providence Resources plc.
In this, and other requests from Fixed Executive Directors to take up external appointments, the Paul Target Board considers the individuals aggregate time commitment McDade anticipated by the new role against their current commitments Maximum to Tullow.
In respect of Angus appointment, the Board agreed that he would retain his fee of 45,000 per annum.
Angus McCoss Fixed has also been nominated by Tullow as its representative on the board of Ikon Science Limited, a company in which Tullow has Les Target Wood asmall equity stake.
Any fees payable for his services in Maximum respect of this nomination have been waived by Tullow.
Policy for new appointments Fixed Base salary levels will take into account market data for the Angus relevant role, internal relativities, the individuals experience Target McCoss and their current base salary.
Where an individual is recruited Maximum at below market norms, they may be realigned over time e. g. two to three years, subject to performance in the role.
m 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Benefits will generally be in accordance with the approved Fixed pay TIP cash TIP deferred shares policy.
Les Wood was appointed as an Executive Director and CFO in June 2017 with an annual base salary of 435,000.
Base salaries are those effective as at 1 January 2018.
Fixed pay includes pensions which are based on a 25 per cent Individuals will participate in the TIP up to the normal annual employer contribution.
limit subject to: i award levels in the year of appointment being 3.
The target TIP award is taken to be 50 per cent of the maximum annual prorated to reflect the proportion of the financial year worked: opportunity for 2018 200 per cent of salary for all Executive Directors.
and ii where a performance metric is measured over more than 4.
The maximum value of the TIP is taken to be 400 per cent of salary one year, the proportion of awards based on that metric will i. e. the maximum annual opportunity for 2018. normally be reduced to reflect the proportion of the performance 5.
No share price appreciation has been assumed.
The Committee may consider buying out incentive Service agreements awards which an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current Each Executive Director has entered into a new service employer although any compensation would be consistent with agreement with Tullow Group Services Limited during 2017. respect to currency i. e. cash for cash, equity for equity, vesting Each service agreement sets out restrictions on the ability of periods i. e. there would be no acceleration of payments, the Director to participate in businesses competing with those expected values and the use of performance targets.
of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the Group any For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable senior employees in the six months after ceasing employment.
pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed The above reflects the Committees policy that service contracts to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take should be structured to reflect the interests of the Group and account of the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing the individuals concerned, while also taking due account of remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment market and best practice.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain The term of each service contract is not fixed.
Each agreement relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
is terminable by the Director on six months notice and by the employing company on 12 months notice.
Fee levels for nonexecutive Director appointments will take into account the expected time commitment of the role and thecurrent fee structure in place at that time.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Policy for loss of office disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment Executive Directors service contracts are terminable by the being either a company which ceases to be a Group member or Director on six months notice and by the relevant employing relating to a business or part of a business which is transferred company on 12 months notice.
There are no specific provisions to a person who is not a Group member or any other reason the under which Executive Directors are entitled to receive Committee so decides.
For a good leaver, unvested awards will compensation upon early termination, other than in accordance normally vest at cessation of employment unless the Committee with the notice period.
decides they should vest at the normal vesting date.
On termination of an Executive Directors service contract, Any unvested awards held under the Tullow Oil 2005 PSP thelast awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2013 theCommittee will take into account the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of any will lapse at cessation of employment unless the individual compensation.
Disbursements such as legal and outplacement isagood leaver defined as per the DSBP.
For a good leaver, costs and incidental expenses may be payable where appropriate.
unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee decides they should vest at cessation Any unvested awards held under the Tullow Oil 2005 DSBP ofemployment subject to performance conditions and time thelast awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2013 prorating unless the Committee decides that the application will lapse at cessation of employment unless the individual of time prorating is inappropriate.
isagood leaver defined under the plan as death, injury or The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of Executive Directors leaving Tullow following the introduction of the TIPisdescribed below: Cessation of employment due to death, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, the Cessation of employment due participants employing company or business for which they work being sold out of the toother reasons e. g. termination Companys Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee forcause Cessation during a financial year, or after the year but prior to the normal TIP No entitlement to the cash part of TIP award date, may, at the discretion of the Committee, result in the cash part of the the TIP following the date notice cash TIP being paid following the date of cessation prorated for the proportion of the is served.
Cessation during a financial year, or after the year but prior to the normal Unvested TIP shares lapse.
No TIP TIPaward date, may, at the discretion of the Committee, result in an award of entitlement to the deferred share deferred shares deferred shares being made prorated for the proportion of the year worked.
element of the TIP following the date notice is served.
Unvested TIP shares generally vest at the normal vesting date except on death orretirement see below unless the Committee determines they should vest atcessation.
On death, TIP shares generally vest immediately unless the Committee determines that they should vest at the normal vesting date.
On retirement as evidenced to the satisfaction of the Committee, TIP shares willvest at the earlier of the normal vesting date and three years from retirement unless the Committee determines they should vest at cessation.
Non-executive Director terms of appointment Number of complete Date of current Expiry of Year years on engagement current Nonexecutive Director appointed the Board commenced term Tutu Agyare 2010 7 24.08.16 23.08.19 Mike Daly 2014 3 31.05.17 30.05.20 Anne Drinkwater 2012 5 10.02.15 09.02.18 Aidan Heavey 2017 0 26.04.17 25.04.19 Steve Lucas 2012 5 14.03.15 13.03.18 Jeremy Wilson 2013 4 21.10.16 20.10.19 Being the anticipated date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2019.
Aidan Heavey was appointed nonexecutive Chairman on 26 April for aperiod not exceeding two years but, as set out in the Nominations Report on page 73, he is the founder and former Chief Executive Officer of the Company and was an Executive Director since incorporation.
In each case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Director and the Board.
The appointment of any nonexecutive Director may be terminated by either party on three months notice.
There are no arrangements under which any nonexecutive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
Given the fixed, transitional and shortterm nature of his appointment, Aidan Heaveys appointment letter does not permit him to terminate his appointment ahead of the Annual General Meeting in 2019, though the appointment may be terminated by Tullow on three months notice.
com 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Committees advisers ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings to provide This part of the report provides details of the operation of the advice so as to ensure that the Committees decisions are Remuneration Committee, how the Remuneration Policy was informed and take account of pay and conditions in the Group implemented in 2017 including payment and awards in respect as a whole.
Sources of advice include: of incentive arrangements and how shareholders voted at the2017 AGM.
Paul McDade, Chief Executive Officer: Les Wood, Chief Financial Officer: Remuneration Committee membership and meetings The Committee currently comprises three nonexecutive Claire Hawkings, EVP OS&CP: and Directors and is chaired by Tutu Agyare.
The membership and further to a formal tender process, including consideration attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2017 of its independence and objectivity, PwC LLP was appointed are shown below.
as adviser to the Remuneration Committee in June 2016 for Committee member Meetings attended the purpose of advising on the Companys 2017 Directors 1 Tutu Agyare Chair 5 5 Remuneration Policy.
Mike Daly 2 2 The total fees paid to PwC in respect of the advice provided Jeremy Wilson 5 5 for2017 totalled 10,000 excluding VAT and related to the Anne Drinkwater 4 4 review of the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report and related Steve Lucas 1 1 issues.
PwC LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Simon Thompson 1 1 Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the 1.
Tutu Agyare was appointed Chair of the Committee from 26 April 2017, UK.
PwC LLP also provided tax and consulting services prior to which the Chair was Jeremy Wilson.
Denotes Directors who were no longer members of the Committee as at 31 December 2017.
The Committee has access to the Company Secretary at alltimes, who advises as necessary and, where appropriate, Committees main responsibilities makes arrangements for the Committee to receive independent Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration legal advice at the request of the Committee Chair.
policy for the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, Executive The Committee also consults with the Companys major Directors and Senior Executives.
investors and investor representative groups as appropriate.
Reviewing progress made against performance targets and NoDirector takes part in any decision directly affecting his or agreeing incentive awards.
The Company Chairman also absents himself during discussion relating to his own fees.
Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders and determining the policy on annual awards to Executive Directors and Senior Executives under existing plans.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the remainder of the remuneration packages principally comprising salary and pension for each Executive Director and Senior Executive.
Monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for Senior Management.
Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across theGroup.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys website.
Base salaries of the Executive Directors have been rounded up to the 7.
Ian Springett resigned as Chief Financial Officer with effect from nearest 10 for payment purposes, in line with established policy.
None of the Executive Directors have a prospective entitlement to a defined 8.
Les Wood became Chief Financial Officer with effect from 20 June 2017. benefit pension by reference to qualifying services.
Figures shown are for the full year and include the following in respect 3.
Taxable benefits comprise private medical insurance for all Executive Directors: ofthe interim period acting as CFO from 5 January 2017 to 20 June 2017: salary of 157,690, pension of 23,650 and taxable benefits of 660.
Abonus Aidan Heaveys taxable benefits comprised private medical insurance 17,523 and car benefits club membership 47,833.
Travel and subsistence benefits was of 56,755 was also paid in August in respect to the period before appointment as Executive Director this number is included as salary fees.
provided to NEDs have also been included on a grossedup basis as Tullow meets the UK tax liability on behalf of the NEDs.
Graham Martin resigned as an Executive Director effective 28 April 2016 4.
TIP cash figures have been calculated based on total base salary receivable 10.
Aidan Heav ey became a nonexecutive Director on 26April 2017. in FY17 taking into account all pay changes agreed and implemented for Remuneration for periods prior to this are shown intheExecutive Executive Directors in 2017.
In addition Aidan Heaveys bonus is based on Directors section.
base pay 737,995 receivable up to 31 October 2017.
Ann Gr ant retired on 26 April 2017.
These figures represent that part of the TIP award required to be deferred 12.
Simon Thompson stepped down as Chairman on 26 April 2017. into shares.
Salary fees for Jeremy Wilson include an additional payment of 6.
Aidan Heavey resigned as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 6,356 as a result of an administrative error, with the agreement 26April 2017.
Following this date he became a nonexecutive Director and ofJeremy, the Company has taken steps to reclaim the monies overpaid.
related pay for this period to 31 December is shown in the nonexecutive 14.
Salary fees for Ann Grant included an additional payment of 7,909 as a Directors section above.
Taxable benefits, pension and bonus are applicable result of an administrative error, with the agreement of Ann, the Company to his office of Chief Executive Officer and are included in the Executive has taken steps to reclaim the monies overpaid.
Directors section of the above table.
com 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Material contracts Ian was unable to return to work for an indefinite period of There have been no other contracts or arrangements during time.
A claim was accepted on 1 August 2017 and cover the financial year in which a Director of the Company was affirmed from this date.
Ian has since received regular materially interested and or which were significant in relation payments under this insurance policy in line with his existing to the Groups business.
service agreement with the Company.
The Remuneration Committee awarded Ian a TIP award over 245,381 in cash and Payments to past Directors a deferred TIP share award to the same cash value for his As previously announced on 9 December 2015, Graham Martin service to the Company and will treat his existing awards under informed the Board that he would retire as an Executive TIP and other incentive plans as being tantamount to good Director atthe 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Mr Martin also leaver status.
resigned as Company Secretary effective 1 January 2016.
Mr Martins appointment as an Executive Director and his Details of variable pay earned in the year employment with Tullow therefore ended on 28 April 2016.
Determination of 2018 TIP award based on performance to 31 December 2017 audited As previously reported Mr Martin received his salary, benefits and The Groups progress against its corporate scorecard is tracked personal allowance in respect of his employment until during the year to assess our performance against our strategy.
As Mr Martin worked for part of the 2016 financial The corporate scorecard is made up of a collection of Key year, the Committee determined that he would remain eligible Performance Indicators KPIs which indicate the Companys to receive the cash part of the Tullow Incentive Plan in respect overall health and performance across a range of operational, of the portion of the year worked: a cash bonus of 162,025 was financial and nonfinancial measures.
The corporate scorecard paid to Mr Martin on 25 February 2017. is central to Tullows approach to performance management and the 2017 indicators were agreed with the Board and focus Payments for loss of office on targets that were deemed important for the year.
Each KPI Aidan Heavey stepped down as CEO on 26 April 2017 and was measured has a percentage weighting and financial indicators appointed as nonexecutive Chairman for a transition period of have trigger, base and stretch performance targets.
Aidan continued to receive his CEO the end of the 2017 financial year, the corporate scorecard KPI remuneration including all benefits for a period of six months.
performance was 39.7 per cent of the maximum and the This will include an amount payable in February 2018 as the Committee awarded Executive Directors a total TIP award equivalent to the Tullow Incentive Plan award Aidan would have equating to 158.8 per cent of base salary.
This will be payable received for the sixmonth period had he remained employed 50 per cent in cash and 50 per cent in shares deferred for five as the CEO.
This amount was determined to be appropriate by years i. e. vesting in 2023.
Details of the performance targets the Committee in consideration of i Aidans service as which operated and performance against those targets are as Chairman of the Board: ii compensation for abridging his follows: contractual notice period with the Group: and iii Aidan being available on an exclusive and fulltime basis for this sixmonth period.
With effect from the expiry of the sixmonth period, Aidans fee for the provision of services as nonexecutive Chairman will be 280,000 per annum in line with the reduced Chairmans fee in effect as at 1 January 2017.
Ian Springett went on extended medical leave on 4 January 2017 and on 20 June 2017 the Company announced that he had resigned from the Board with immediate effect.
Ian received full pay, benefits and pension allowance for seven months to 31 July 2017.
Under Ians service contract, Tullow maintained insurance cover to provide income protection in the event that 92 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Strategic Financing Ensuring sufficient liquidity to deliver the business plan was achieved 10% 9.5% bysuccessfully refinancing our RBL at $2.5 billion and extending the Key targets relating 40% 38% RollingCorporate Facility by one year.
toensuring sufficient liquidity and executing The Q1 Rights Issue and generation of free cash flow from our low cost, a longterm strategic producing assets have resulted in a significant reduction in our debt since the solution to deleverage end of 2016.
As a result we were able to deleverage the balance sheet and and rebase the reduce our debt ratio to 2.6 debt:EBITDAX.
balance sheet As part of the review of our Strategic Financing targets, the Board considered our capital structure, scale of funding, timing and related costs before arriving at a score of 9.5%.
Safe & Efficient Production 12% 10.4% BusinessOperations 2017 48% 41.6% Production Trigger target Base target Stretch target performance Quantitative targets mboepd 71.7 77.1 82.5 87.3 relating to Production, Opex, Net G&A and Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% Capex and SSEA targets The above production numbers exclude the lost production covered by focused on delivering business interruption insurance.
Including the impact of insured barrels from business activities the Jubilee field, Group working interest production is 94,700 boepd.
safely whilst minimising environmental impacts Opex boe and delivering 2017 sustainable benefits Opex boe Trigger target Base target Stretch target performance $ boe 14.2 13.3 12.4 11.1 Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% The operating costs are net of insurance proceeds.
Net G&A 2017 Net G&A Trigger target Base target Stretch target performance Net G&A $ 123.1 115 107 95 Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% Capex 2017 Capex Trigger target Base target Stretch target performance Capex 373 348 324 225 Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% The capex numbers have been adjusted to remove Uganda.
Decommissioning capex is not included above and is $34 million budget: $61 million.
SSEA Tullows SSEA targets are focused on reducing process safety events: making improvements to our asset integrity: occupational health and safety focused on Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF and malaria prevention: and sustainability, including metrics such as environmental and social performance.
In 2017 there were no Tier 1 process safety incidents: process safety targets were partially achieved for TEN and Jubilee: our LTIF rate rose to 0.37 as a consequence of four Lost Time Injuries reported in the year 2016: nil.
There were no serious malaria cases reported, our ESIA obligations were met and there were no significant environment regulatory noncompliances.
We met most of our local content expenditure targets in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda.
Inview of the above performance the Committee determined a 3.4% achievement out of a maximum 5% allocation.
com 93 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Determination of 2018 TIP award based on performance to 31 December 2017 audited continued % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Business Development The Business Development and Growth targets reflect the portfolio and 15% 10.8% andGrowth longterm growth strategy of the Company.
They focus on value creation and 60% 43.2% seeking opportunities.
West Africa Production East Africa KPI Outcome Target 2017 developments West Africa Ghana Government approval was 5% 3.5% secured for Jubilee Full Field New Ventures portfolio Returning Jubilee to plateau Development Plan and drilling will management production levels commence in early 2018.
The Preparing Ghana for Government has also approved a exploration drilling shuttle offtake solution that will in 2018 lead to an increase in production Enhancing the value and permission to execute a oftheWest African longterm TRP solution.
nonoperated BU In the nonoperated Business Unit, the growth plan for Gabon rollout is under way and review ofnearfield exploration in Equatorial Guinea and Cte dIvoire has been completed.
Resources of 20 mmbbl and Reserve additions of 8 mmbbls have beenbooked since the lastaudit in 2016.
East Africa Strong safety and environmental 5% 3.5% performance has been maintained Efficiently deliver Kenya with initiatives being prepared and operations with a strong focus on community relations and focus on safety, environment capacity building to support and local communities localcontent.
Progress Kenya Strategic direction changed to development to support value over volume and focus on end2018 FID phased development.
Joint Complete Total transaction Development Agreement to and progress Uganda construct oil pipeline has been development to FID signed with Government.
In Uganda our Partners, Total and CNOOC, have signed the Sales and Purchase agreement to farmdown our interest and the FID is still on track for early 2018.
New Ventures New licences in Cte dIvoire and 5% 3.8% Peru were secured.
Access and portfolio management The exit of Madagascar and Greenland was completed.
Inventory progress Progress was made on prospects Exploration outcome in Suriname.
All operations in Jamaica, Uruguay, Zambia, Suriname and Mauritania completed safely and under budget.
94 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Organisation A mini staff survey conducted in Q3 showed that actions taken as a result 3% 2% ofthe feedback from the biennial engagement survey in 2016 were yielding Targets relating to Staff 12% 8% results, in particular, in communications and employee engagement as well Engagement: Diversity as addressing feedback in other areas.
and Inclusion: and Ethics & Compliance A diversity & inclusion workshop was held with the new Executive Team to endorse the forward plan of management and a new Executive SubGroup was established to promote the D&I aims.
Some positive progress has been made on improving workforce diversity.
100% compliance was achieved when all employees completed the Code of Ethical Conduct online course and our Code Certification process was achieved.
There were two breaches of compliance regarding the Companys ExPo Standard.
Relative TSR Total Performance against a bespoke group of listed exploration and production 50% 0% Shareholder Return companies measured over three years to 31 December 2017 25% is payable 200% 0% atmedian, increasing to 100% payable at upper quartile.
We scored zero for our performance in TSR because our share price continues to perform below the median against our industry peer group over a threeyear period.
Discretionary based The following items were considered in the scoring of the 10% 7% on: the full years : 40% 28% performance in relation The CEO and executive leadership team transition which was a major change to unforeseen business to Tullows leadership and was viewed to have been very well managed and and operational executed without business disruption.
A shortform staff survey in September events, value creation, indicated positive feedback regarding the leadership changes and management and improvement on leadership communications.
leadership, and The preparation for the ITLOS judgement, focusing on the key risks, external commentary engagement plans and communications, was viewed as very well managed, in particular, use of cross functional resourced teams to fully understand the breadth of the issues and the focus on managing relationships in the respective jurisdictions.
The continued, relentless focus and drive on performance and capital management and free cash flow generation resulting in the achievement of$0.5 billion FCF vs. a budget of $0.2 billion was viewed as very positive.
A significant effort was made in resolving legacy issues and managing theportfolio during 2017.
Positive results were achieved in Congo and Netherlands exits and the resolution of a tax dispute in Equatorial Guinea.
The need for improvements to SAP and the requisition to pay process in Ghana reduced the discretionary score avocation as in this area performance fell short of the performance expected.
The TSR comparator group for the 2017 TIP award was as follows: Afren, Anadarko, Apache, Cairn Energy, Canadian Natural Resources, Cobalt Energy, Conoco Phillips, Hess, Kosmos Energy, Lundin Petroleum, Marathon Oil, Noble Energy, Oil Search, Ophir Energy, Premier Oil, Santos, SOCO International and Woodside Petroleum.
Further information on Tullow Groups performance against the corporate scorecard is shown on pages 20 to 23 of the AnnualReport and Accounts.
com 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TIP awards granted in 2017 audited The fourth set of TIP awards were granted to Executive Directors on 27 April 2017, based on the performance period ended 31December 2016, as follows: Number of TIP Face value of awards at Normal vesting dates Pregrant 1 Executive shares awarded grant date end of exercise window performance period Aidan Heavey 401,260 859,497 Angus McCoss 226,927 486,076 26.04.2022 to 01.01.2016 to 31.12.2016 26.04.2027 TSR 01.01.2014 to 31.12.2016 Paul McDade 226,927 486,076 Les Wood 240,951 516,117 1.
Awards made in the form of nilcost options, the face value of the awards is equal to the TIP cash bonus awarded for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the number of shares awarded is calculated using the price on the day preceding the grant date which on 26 April 2017 was 214.2p.
UK SIP shares awarded in 2017 audited The UK SIP is a taxfavoured allemployee plan that enables UK employees to save out of pretax salary.
Quarterly contributions are used by the plan trustee to buy Tullow Oil plc shares partnership shares.
The Group funds an award of an equal number of shares matching shares.
The current maximum contribution is 150 per month.
Details of shares purchased and awarded to Executive Directors under the UK SIP are as follows: SIP shares that Partnership Matching became Total unrestricted Shares held shares acquired shares awarded Total shares held unrestricted shares held at 1 Director 01.01.17 in year in year 31.12.17 in year 31.12.17 Angus McCoss 7,756 998 998 9,752 254 3,052 Paul McDade 13,697 997 997 15,691 254 8,991 Ian Springett 5,937 997 997 7,931 262 1,231 Les Wood 1,061 299 299 1,659 1.
Unrestricted shares which are included in the total shares held at 31 December 2016 are those which no longer attract a tax liability if they are withdrawn from the plan.
CEO total pay versus TSR For 2017 the CEO total pay is based on an annualised summation of base pay, pension, benefits and TIP cash bonus and share award equivalent value for Paul McDade.
The values indicated in the graph overleaf show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends over a nineyear period from a100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Tullow Oil plc and in the two indices.
The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive during each of the last nine financial years are shown in the table below.
For 2017, total remuneration figures are shown for Aidan Heavey based on the period he held the office of Chief Executive Officer and for the transition period up to 31 October 2017 and for Paul McDade from 27 April 2017 when he commenced in his office of Chief Executive.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that years performance 2008 to 2017, PSP awards based on threeyear performance periods ending in the relevant year 2009 to 2012 and the value of TIP awards based on the performance period ending in the relevant year 2013to2017.
The annual bonus payout, PSP vesting level and TIP award, as a percentage of the maximum opportunity, are alsoshown for each of these years.
Year ending in Aidan Heavey 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total remuneration 4,516,580 3,558,698 4,688,541 2,623,116 2,750,273 2,378,316 2,835,709 2,893,232 1,717,276 Annual bonus 86% 58% 80% 70% PSP vesting 100% 100% 100% 23% TIP 30% 23% 38% 39% 40% Year ending in Paul McDade 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total remuneration n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1,416,281 Annual bonus n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a PSP vesting n a n a n a n a TIP n a n a n a n a 40% Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives total remuneration excluding the value of any pension benefits receivable in the year between the financial year ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017, compared to that of the average for all employees of the Group.
This table reflects the change in Chief Executive Officer in 2017.
The negative percentage change reflects the fact that the current CEO receives a lower salary than the former CEO.
% change from 2016 to 2017 Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 18% 84% 33% Average employees 6.5% 0% 7.8% www.
Les Wood TIP awards granted prior to appointment as an Executive Director have a threeyear vesting period.
In addition to the TIP awards, LesWood has outstanding Employee Share Award Plan ESAP awards totalling 82,601.
98 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Summary of past 2005 Performance Share Plan PSP Details of shares granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the PSP: Earliest date Latest date Award grant Share price on Exercised Rights Issue shares can be shares can be Director date grant date As at 01.01.17 during year adjustment As at 31.12.17 acquired acquired Paul McDade 15.05.08 924.5p 80,277 94,182 13,905 0 15.05.11 14.05.18 18.03.09 778p 98,355 17,037 115,392 18.03.12 17.03.19 17.03.10 1,281p 13,972 2,420 16,392 17.03.13 16.03.20 192,604 94,182 33,362 131,784 Ian Springett 01.09.08 791p 68,873 80,803 11,930 0 01.09.11 31.08.18 18.03.09 778p 104,438 18,091 122,529 18.03.12 17.03.19 17.03.10 1,281p 14,836 2,569 17,405 17.03.13 16.03.20 188,147 80,803 32,590 139,934 All of the PSP awards listed are based on relative threeyear TSR performance and the Committee considering that both the Groups underlying financial performance and its performance against other key factors e. g. Health & Safety over the relevant period are satisfactory.
50 per cent of awards are were measured against an international oil sector comparator group see past Remuneration Reports for details of specific companies and 50 per cent of awards are were measured against the FTSE 100.
All outstanding awards under PSP have been granted as, or converted into, nil exercise price options.
To the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable from three to 10 years from grant.
To the extent that they vest, they are exercisable from three to 10 years from grant.
Share price range During 2017, the highest midmarket price of the Companys shares was 284.1p and the lowest was 145.6p.
com 99 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests in the share capital of the Company audited The interests of the Directors all of which were beneficial, who held office at 31 December 2017 or during FY2017, are set out in the table below: % of salary under 2017 Remuneration Policy Ordinary shares held TIP awards PSP awards DSBP awards ESAP awards SIP Total shareholding 1 31.12.16 31.12.17 guidelines Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Restricted Unrestricted 31.12.17 Angus McCoss 274,702 324,703 164 737,615 34,167 6,700 3,052 1,106,237 Paul 2 McDade 305,801 520,738 148 737,615 34,167 131,784 125,835 6,700 8,991 1,565,830 Ian 3 Springett 12,000 14,462 6 783,199 36,279 220,737 98,267 5,668 1,105 1,159,717 Les Wood 292,692 82,601 1,659 376,952 Non-executive Directors Tutu Agyare 1,940 2,930 2,930 Mike Daly 3,175 4,795 4,795 Anne Drinkwater 7,000 7,000 7,000 Aidan Heavey 6,178,813 7,000,000 n a 1,304,277 60,416 8,364,693 Steve Lucas 600 720 720 Jeremy Wilson 45,000 67,959 67,959 1.
Calculated using share price of 206.6p at year end.
Under the Companys shareholding guidelines, each Executive Director is required to build up their shareholdings in the Companys shares to at least 300 per cent of their salary.
Further details of the minimum shareholding requirement is set out in the Remuneration Policy Report.
2 On 21 December 2017, Paul McDade exercised 94,182 PSP awards and 17,229 DSBP awards, the share price at exercise was 194.25p.
3 As at date of resignation from office of Chief Financial Officer on 20 June 2017.
On 5 January 2018 Angus McCoss, Paul McDade and Les Wood were each awarded 484 SIP shares, all of which are restricted.
Accounting for certain restricted SIP shares becoming unrestricted SIP shares in the period between 1 January 2018 and the date of this report, Angus McCoss holds 7,184 restricted SIP shares and 3,052 unrestricted SIP shares total 10,236, Paul McDade holds 7,184 restricted SIP shares and 8,991 unrestricted SIP shares total 16,175 and Les Wood holds 2,143 restricted SIP shares and 0 unrestricted SIP shares total 2,143.
There have been no other changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2018 and the date of this report.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 6 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Tutu Agyare Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 100 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
