Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR EXISTING STRATEGY Key performance indicators Risk management Following the review of our strategic priorities undertaken in 2017, The management of risk has a key role to play in the achievement HELP HOUSEHOLDS our strategic priorities have been revised and so have our key of our strategy.
The relationship between our Principal Risks and performance indicators as a consequence.
our strategy is identified in the Principal Risks & Uncertainties We set out below our existing key performance measures section of this Report on pages 32 and 33.
SAVE MONEY for 2017 to show performance against our existing See pages: 48 to 53 and 56 to 58 for details of how the Audit strategic priorities.
Committee and Risk Committee support the Board in oversight We set out on page 11 our new measures which will apply of internal controls and risk management.
Our strategy is to invest in the right products and services within our core brands of from 2018 onwards so that we can measure our performance MoneySuperMarket, MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket to help more people against our revised strategic priorities.
Remuneration save more money year after year.
The Remuneration Committee determines the Remuneration Policy to ensure it promotes the long-term success of the Group.
See page: 61 for details of how our executive remuneration is Through our continued focus on our technology, our data and improved customer journeys on mobile and tablet devices, linked to our strategy.
capabilities and our customer product propositions we improved enabling our customers to access our services wherever and our understanding of our customers and delivered an improved and whenever they want to.
This allows us to build deeper relationships, consistent customer experience.
Customers find it easier to use our delivering more value to our customers by helping them save money websites and benefit from greater personalisation of our services on their household bills.
Progress against existing strategic priorities Key performance indicators In 2017 we spent 15.8m as we continued to invest in our technology and product Average monthly unique visitors Investment in technology Best site: propositions, delivering improvements to the customer journey as we continued the roll-out This is Google Analytics measure calculating The amount we have invested Be the easiest way for people to of our re-platform.
the average monthly unique visitors by brand in technology.
find the right products for their over the year.
Note this is not fide-duplicated needs The investment also improves data capabilities including the development of our Enterprise by device and so effectively is unique devices Data Warehouse which stores our customer data.
Customers will find it easier to use our sites visiting our sites rather than people.
and benefit from greater personalisation of services and improved customer journeys on mobile and tablet devices.
24.0m 15.8m 17 17 The average monthly unique users increased in 2017 reflecting the benefits we are delivering to our customers, particularly MoneySavingExpert users, as more choose to engage with our 16 23.4m 16 22.6m brands to make the most of their money.
15 23.6m 15 19.6m We have continued to focus on ensuring that customers can use our services more easily Net promoter score Unique adults choosing to Savings made by customers Earn customer loyalty: across channels and through multiple devices.
Our efforts to earn customer loyalty are This is an index that measures the willingness Calculated by multiplying sales volume share data Trusted destination brands reflected in our Net Promoter Score.
In 2017 our Group Net Promoter Score increased by 4%, of customers to recommend our brands against the average saving per product for The number of adults that have a valid reflecting an impressive increase in customer satisfaction with the MoneySavingExpert brand.
This is averaged across core channels, the balance of the calculation customer account.
the three months preceding the year end.
An additional 2.7m customers set up a MoneySuperMarket MyProfile customer account in 2017, adding to the existing 22.2m customers who keep their data with us.
This enables us to 2.0bn 47% 24.9m 17 17 17 understand our customers even better, to personalise our communications to them and make it easier for them to save money with us.
16 1.8bn 16 43% 16 22.2m We estimate that the savings made by customers in 2017 were 2.0bn, an increase of 10% on 2016 and demonstrating the value of our customer proposition.
48% 18.6m 15 1.6bn 15 15 Our business success is based on providing value to both our customers and our providers.
Marketing margin Number of providers Preferred partner: Throughout 2017, our commercial teams have continued to focus on building stronger The inverse relationship between revenue The number of providers our brands Be the best way for providers to relationships with our providers and to secure market-leading exclusive products and total marketing spend represented partner with during the year.
Providers understand the value we bring them, which is why we continue to attract a strong 65% 989 17 17 panel of providers to our sites, with the number of providers in 2017 increasing to 989.
Our marketing margin was stable in 2017.
16 64% 16 980 68% 877 15 15 The strength of our Group is a reflection of the passion, innovation, skills and experience of our Revenue Adjusted operating profit Net cash from operating activities Our results: employees.
They play a critical role in the performance of the Group, living our core values as This is the annual revenue generated.
As detailed in the Financial Review on A measure of the cash generated in a given Underpinned by our core values one team and always making things better for customers, colleagues and providers.
We take page 24. period solely related to core business pride in being a profitable and efficient Group that has a clear focus on our customers.
com Group PLC 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
