STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The remuneration policy and practices are aligned with the long term performance of our business and have been a crucial element in retaining and attracting key talent and in driving behaviours to build a culture where reward is clearly linked to sustainable performance.
Vanda Murray OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee INTRODUCTION FROM PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES Meetings OF THE COMMITTEE VANDA MURRAY The Committee met on four occasions during 2017.
Members attendance at Chairman of the Remuneration Committee those meetings is set out below: I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration remuneration report for the period ended Setting and reviewing directors Meetings attended 31December 2017 which has been prepared remuneration and benefits including Vanda Murray 4 by the Remuneration Committee and base salary, bonus, long term 1 David Sleath 1 approved by the Board.
incentive plans and retirement Eugenia Ulasewicz 4 benefits.
Jean-Charles Pauze 4 Remuneration policy and 2 Lloyd Pitchford 3 Ensuring that all remuneration paid to shareholder engagement 3 the directors is in accordance with the Stephan Nanninga 3 Our remuneration framework is a crucial Companys previously approved 1 David Sleath retired as a director on 19 April element in enabling us to compete for key remuneration policy.
2017 having attended all of the Committee talent internationally and in continuing to meetings held between 1 January 2017 and Ensuring all contractual terms on thatdate.
drive our high performance culture which termination, and any payments made, focuses on delivering shareholder value.
2 Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a director on are fair to the individual and the 1 March 2017 and attended all of the Committee TheCommittee believes that the meetings held between that date and the end Company.
remuneration policy has contributed to our of the year.
success by creating a culture where reward Monitoring the policies and practices 3 Stephan Nanninga was appointed as a director is aligned to sustainable performance.
applied in respect of the remuneration on 1 May 2017 and attended all of the Committee meetings held between that date of senior executives directly below and the end of the year.
At last year's AGM, following consultation Board level and making with our largest shareholders and their recommendations as appropriate.
representative bodies on the proposed Role remuneration structure, we received Long term incentive plans The primary role of the Committee is to overwhelming support for the remuneration Overseeing the Companys long term determine the framework or broad policy for policy, which was approved with a 92% vote incentive plans for all employees.
the remuneration of the Chairman and the infavour, and 98% support for our executive directors of the Board.
The Governance and compliance remuneration report.
I would like to thank Committees terms of reference, which were Ensuring that provisions relating to our investors for their constructive input reviewed by both the Committee and the disclosure of remuneration as set out andvoting support.
We have continued to Board in 2017, are available on the in the relevant legislation, the UK consult with shareholders in 2017 as part Companys website, www.
Listing Rules and the Corporate ofour ongoing commitment to open Governance Code are fulfilled.
dialogueto ensure our policy takes into Activities account institutional investors best practiceexpectations.
The Committee proposes the directors Composition remuneration policy for shareholder The Committee comprises all of the The changes made to the remuneration approval.
It also governs the implementation independent non-executive directors of the policy in 2017 were designed to drive of the policy, ensuring that the remuneration Company.
While neither the Chairman of the performance for the Companys next stage for our executive directors and senior Company nor the Chief Executive are ofdevelopment and to bring the policy in line management supports the sustainable members of the Committee, they normally with current best practice.
performance of the business and that it is attend meetings by invitation except when aligned with the Companys shareholders the Committee is considering matters interests.
The Committee considers market concerning themselves.
The Secretary to the practice and shareholders views when Committee is Julie Welch, Director of Group setting the Groups performance-related Human Resources.
incentives and ensures compliance with UKcorporate governance good practice.
71 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The policy changes in summary: The changes we have made to the policy are The annual bonuses for Brian May and Patrick Larmon are 95% and 84% of their working well and support the Companys policy maximum for annual bonus of 180% focus on building and strengthening its annual salaries respectively.
In line with the remuneration policy, 50% of the annual of base salary the 2017 FTSE 100 market strategic position for the long term.
Looking median but reduction in the target and forward, the Committee will continue to drive bonuses will be delivered in shares, subject to a three year deferral.
threshold bonus as a percentage of the and reward performance and maintain maximum : alignment with shareholders interests.
LTIP grants improved disclosure in the remuneration report for the relevant year to include The remuneration policy allows annual Performance and reward for 2017 grants under the LTIP up to 200% of base threshold, target and stretch performance The business strategy has remained metrics: salary for share options and 150% for constant during 2017 with the Group performance shares.
However, for 2017 we maintained bonus deferral of 50% continuing to grow both organically and ofawardinto shares for three years: took a prudent approach and award levels byacquisition, extending our geographic were maintained at the same levels as 2016, strengthened malus and clawback footprint across 30 countries while provisions including for the cash element with share options at up to 200% of base continuously improving the quality of our salary and performance shares being held of bonus: operating model.
shareholding requirement increased at112.5% of base salary.
to250% for the Chief Executive and This year Group revenue is up 10% and maintained at 200% for other LTIP vesting adjusted operating profit is up 6% at The Committee assessed the performance executivedirectors: constantexchange rates against the reduction in pension contribution or cash for 2015-2017 based on the metrics set for background of variable macroeconomic the LTIP options and performance shares.
allowance for new executive directors andmarket conditions.
capped at 25% of base salary : The strong eps growth was reflected in 100%of executive share options vesting time proration for performance shares Annual bonus inthe event of an executive director during 2017.
In addition, 82% and 56% of In setting our incentive targets, we have performance shares vested for performance retirement: and regard to the performance potential of the introduction of a two year post-vesting periods that ended in March and September different parts of the business and of the 2017 respectively.
holding requirement for LTIP awards from whole Group.
The on-target performance the 2017 AGM onwards.
level for the bonus is set at, or close to, the Remuneration arrangements for budgeted level of performance.
The As the AGM and the approval of the directors Committee sets a range around the target the 2018 financial year remuneration policy occurred part way both to incentivise delivery of a stretching through 2017, no subsequent changes were Base salary performance and to allow for limited made to the executive directors bonus Executive directors base salaries have underperformance.
They have beenincreased by between 2.0% and 2.5% now been reviewed and are being changed effective from 1January 2018 which is in line Following the 2017 AGM, the Committee, for 2018. with thatof the US and UK workforce indetermining the implementation of the averagerespectively.
approved policy for 2017, decided to retain The annual bonus opportunity in the policy the existing overall structure for the annual had remained unchanged for eight years.
Annual bonus bonus with the key performance metrics However, we adopted a prudent, phased The directors remuneration policy sets the being the Groups adjusted earnings per approach limiting the increase in bonus to annual bonus maximum level around the share eps and return on average operating 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive FTSE 100 market median.
For the 2018 capital RAOC and, for Patrick Larmon, two for 2017, 30 percentage points lower than the financial year, the Chief Executives additional measures related to the operating maximum policy amount.
As referred to maximum annual bonus opportunity will be profit and return on average operating above, we increased the shareholding 180% of base salary.
For the other executive capital of the business area for which he has requirement for our Chief Executive to 250% directors, the maximum annual bonus will be responsibility North America.
We carefully of base salary and strengthened the malus 150% of base salary.
The on-target bonus is reviewed the financial performance targets and clawback provisions for the annual 50% of the maximum, namely 90% of base for the annual bonus plan and after due bonus plan and the Companys Long Term salary for the Chief Executive and 75% of consideration the Committee decided to Incentive Plan LTIP.
base salary for the other executive directors.
increase the on-target eps bonus award level for the executive directors to slightly above We recognise that investors are keen to The annual bonus has previously measured the 2017 budgeted level.
In doing so, we understand the degree of stretch in our performance with a one-dimensional focus ensured that the performance targets annual bonus plan.
Being mindful of the against a single financial measure of eps became more challenging as the quantum in competitive sensitivity of such disclosure, we growth, subject to a RAOC percentage bonus levels increased, balanced against the have disclosed the performance ranges that modifier with only a minor impact on the fact that we were already part way through apply to our annual bonus plan on a bonus.
Following recent shareholder the year.
Performance against these metrics retrospective basis since 2016.
We will consultation the Committee has concluded has resulted in an annual bonus for Frank continue to do so going forward.
that it is an appropriate time to introduce a van Zanten of 73% of the maximum balanced scorecard of performance opportunity, which equates to 109% of his measures for the 2018 bonus award to annual salary for 2017. provide greater alignment to the strategic KPIs and a more rounded view on 72 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED performance.
To this end, for 2018 the LTIP This report has been prepared on bonusaward will be based on eps, RAOC, The normal annual award limits for share behalf of, and has been approved by, operating cash flow and personal options can be up to 200% of base salary and the Board.
It complies with the Large performance linked to certain specified 150% of base salary for the performance and Medium-sized Companies and strategic non-financial goals.
These metrics share element of the LTIP although award Groups Accounts and Reports are all key tothe future business strategy.
levels for 2018 will once again be held at the Amendment Regulations 2013 the same levels as 2016 and 2017, with share Regulations, the UK Corporate The performance measures for the balanced options at up to 200% of base salary and Governance Code and the Financial scorecard and their respective weightings performance shares being held at 112.5% of Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and are summarised in the table below: base salary.
The resulting LTIP award levels takes into account the accompanying for 2018 are materially lower than the FTSE 2017 Weighting 2018 Weighting Directors Remuneration Reporting 100 mid market levels and below the Eps growth 100% Eps growth 50% Guidance and the relevant policies of maximum levels permitted by the RAOC% 15% shareholder representative bodies.
Operating The directors remuneration policy cash flow m 15% was approved by shareholders in a We will continue to set robust and Strategic binding vote at the 2017 AGM on challenging performance conditions for the non-financial 19April 2017 and is not being LTIP awards.
These awards are subject to goals 20% submitted to a shareholder vote at the eps growth targets and, in addition, in the 100% 100% 2018 AGM.
case of the performance shares, a relative Subject to an eps total shareholder return TSR condition.
underpin eps to be In accordance with the Regulations, LTIP awards are subject to a post-vesting atleast at the threshold atthe 2018 AGM we will be asking holding period which was introduced last Subject to a level for any bonus to shareholders to vote on an advisory vote year for the executive directors.
The RAOCmodifier bepaid on the annual report on remuneration as holdingperiod continues to apply to any set out on pages 84 to 95 which provides Calculated at constant exchange rates awards retained where an executive details of the remuneration earned by directorleaves employment.
Threshold, target and stretch levels for all directors for performance in the year financial measures will be disclosed in the ended 31 December 2017.
We will continue to review the LTIP relevant years remuneration report.
The opportunity, measures specific performance levels are not disclosed andtargets may be considered in the future while still commercially sensitive.
within the parameters permitted in the remuneration policy.
When setting the target levels, the Committee conducts an analysis of thechallenges and growth opportunities Conclusions across the Group and sets targets that are 2017 was a successful year, supported by the stretching without encouraging inappropriate Companys remuneration policy, and the levels of risk.
The range itself varies each level of payout for the annual bonus and year taking into account the risks and vesting of the LTIP awards reflects this.
In opportunities facing the business and the following pages you will find details of: theprinciple that target setting year by year results in stretching ambition our current directors remuneration whileensuring that the scale of reward policy as approved in April 2017 : and onoffer is proportionate and always linked the annual report on remuneration toperformance.
outperformance required for a maximum I hope that you will find this report to be bonus on the eps element will be increased clearand helpful in understanding our further to 112% of target, while maintaining remuneration policy and practices.
the existing asymmetric range by setting thethreshold at 93% of target.
To ensure Vanda Murray OBE thatstrong financial performance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee underpinsbonus payouts, the Committee 26 February 2018 hasintroduced an eps underpin.
If eps performance falls below the threshold level, no bonus will be payable.
73 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committees overall policy, having had Objectives of the policy DIRECTORS due regard to the factors above, continues to The current directors remuneration policy, REMUNERATION POLICY be for a substantial proportion of total effective from the date of the 2017 AGM, We continue to pursue our well defined remuneration to be based on variable pay.
withthe exception of the annual bonus where strategy of developing the business through This is achieved by setting base pay and thepolicy applied for the full financial year organic growth, consolidating our position in benefits up to mid-market levels, with annual in2017, has been designed to meet the the markets in which we compete through bonus and long term incentive opportunities following objectives: focused acquisitions in both existing and new linked to the achievement of demanding geographies and continuously improving our performance targets which will be disclosed to support the next phase of the Groups operating model.
Bunzls business model in the relevant years remuneration report.
growth and development: relies on excellent customer and supplier In this way the Committee facilitates to bring the policy in line with current best relationships and the skills, knowledge and alignment between the interests of practice principles: experience of its directors and employees.
shareholders and the total remuneration to provide flexibility to take better account The Companys remuneration policy paid to the executive directors.
of market remuneration levels: supports this strategy by ensuring that the to ensure remuneration reflects the overall remuneration package is set at a performance of the Group in the relevant competitive level while ensuring that year and the longer term: additional reward is paid for high to ensure that the targets set each year performance over a sustained period.
result in stretching ambitions and that the This policy is designed to ensure the scale of the reward is proportionate: and recruitment, retention and motivation of to align pay with the strategic objectives theexecutive directors and other senior ofthe Company and the interests of its executives over the long term.
In setting the remuneration policy for the The performance-related elements of executive directors, the Committee also theremuneration package are designed takes into consideration a number of toincentivise executives to meet key different factors: performance metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of the Committee applies the principles set shareholders, for example targets relating out in the UK Corporate Governance Code toadjusted earnings per share eps and and also takes into account best practice total shareholder return TSR.
In setting guidance issued by the major UK such targets, the Committee takes due institutional investor bodies, the Financial account of the potential effect such targets Conduct Authority including the provisions could have on the attitude and behaviour of of any applicable remuneration codes and executives to risk within thebusiness.
In other relevant organisations: addition the Committee hasthe discretion to the Committee has overall responsibility take into account performance on for the remuneration policies and environmental, social andgovernance structures for employees of the Group as matters.
awhole and it reviews remuneration policyon a Group wide basis.
When the In the application of the remuneration policy, Committee determines and reviews the the metrics and targets for the annual bonus remuneration policy for the executive plan remained the same for 2017 with eps directors it considers and compares it growth and return on average operating against the pay, policy and employment capital RAOC performance measures.
For conditions of the rest of the Group to the 2018 financial year and going forward, in ensure that there is alignment between addition to eps and RAOC, we have added thetwo: and operating cash flow and personal objectives the Committee considers the external as performance measures.
The weighting is market in which the Group operates and 50% eps growth, 15% RAOC, 15% operating uses comparator remuneration data from cash flow and 20% strategic personal time to time to inform its decisions.
The eps However, the Committee recognises that metric has an underpin attached which must such data should be used as a guide only be achieved before any of the other metrics recognising that data can be volatile and can lead to any bonus beingpaid.
may not be directly relevant and that there is often a need to phase-in changes over a The directors remuneration policy was period of time.
approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and is not subject to a vote at the 2018 AGM.
74 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Engagement with shareholders Remuneration policy for executivedirectors The Committee engages with, and seeks the views of, its major The following table summarises each element of the remuneration investors and investor representative bodies on any significant policy for the executive directors, explaining how each element changes to the Companys remuneration policy.
The Committee also operates and links to the corporate strategy.
engages from time to time with shareholders when considering important questions about the implementation of the policy.
Views expressed by shareholders are considered by the Committee as part of any review of remuneration policy or sooner if appropriate.
Salary recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role Purpose reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year Operation reviewed annually, normally in December with any changes usually effective from January t aking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large international presence pensionable s alary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group and Maximum potentialvalue performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility or major market movement.
The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2017 and 2018 are set out on pages 85 and 92 respectively w hile there are no performance conditions attached to the payment of base salary, individual performance in the Performance metrics role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to environmental, social and governance issues, are all taken into consideration Annual bonus incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets Purpose retain high performing employees align with shareholders interests Operation a nnual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year a t the end of the performance period, which is the Groups financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved.
The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measures performance targets, on a pro rata basis a ny bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares with the shares normally deferred for three years under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS m alus and clawback provisions apply under DASBS to allow the recoupment of bonus for three years from the end of the relevant performance year in the event of material misstatement of performance, a significant failure of risk control or serious misconduct.
Malus and clawback also apply to the cash element of the bonus award non-pensionable t he annual bonus policy maximum is 180% of base salary Maximum potentialvalue t he annual target bonus opportunity is capped at 50% of the maximum, where the maximum exceeds 140% of base salary f or the 2018 performance year for Frank van Zanten the maximum annual bonus will be 180% of base salary with the on-target award at 50% of the maximum, equating to an on-target bonus of 90% of base salary f or the 2018 performance year for Brian May and Patrick Larmon the maximum annual bonus will be 150% of base salary with the on-target award at 50% of the maximum, equating to an on-target bonus of 75% of base salary t he current threshold levels of bonus are 49% of base salary for Frank van Zanten and Brian May and 31% of base salary for Patrick Larmon 75 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus continued metrics will be set each year by the Committee aligned to the Companys key strategic objectives Performance metrics For the 2018 performance year, the principal metrics are as follows: growth at constant exchange rates in the Companys eps against a relevant target the Companys RAOC performance t he Companys operating cash flow, being cash generated from operations before acquisition related items less net capital expenditure personal objectives linked to certain specified strategic goals t he use of eps, RAOC and operating cash flow measures are seen as appropriate as they are, or form part of, three of the Companys financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The use of eps growth aligns the executive directors interests with those of the shareholders, RAOC ensures the continued focus on the management of capital employed together with profitability and cash flow ensures the focus on cash generation b onus awards are at the Committees discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters as appropriate P atrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest, tax, customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related items PBITA and RAOC of the business area for which he has direct responsibility North America and both are measured on a constant exchange rate basis.
The additional measures relating to PBITA and RAOC are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise the management team in North America t he performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee retains the discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate t he current relevant performance metrics are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus is capped.
These performance metrics are determined by reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonus are guaranteed.
As in previous years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive For the 2018 performance year, the weighting of these metrics will be as follows: eps 50% RAOC 15% operating cash flow 15%, and strategic non-financial goals 20% There will be an eps underpin, such that if eps is below threshold there is no bonus payout.
Long term incentives Purpose i ncentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR align with shareholders interests recruit and retain senior employees d iscretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest subject to Operation performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service a m alus and clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by a reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment, for a period of three years from the relevant performance year, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of performance or there has been a significant failure of risk control or serious misconduct t wo year post-vesting holding requirement for shares that vest, net of sales to settle tax or other withholding due on vesting or exercise of awards all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules 76 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long term incentives continued Maximum potentialvalue Executive share options maximum annual award of 250% of base salary n ormal annual grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of base salary and the Committee would not normally grant above 200% of salary to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance shares maximum annual award of 150% of base salary normal annual grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 150% of base salary for the 2018 grants, awards will not exceed 112.5% of base salary Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period Performance metrics Executive share options e ps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below the threshold target 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale t he Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment t he targets set for the previously approved 2004 LTIP which expired in 2014 are shown on page 66 of the 2014 Annual Report.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 87.
Performance shares T SR performance measure 50% of the total award compares a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors t he other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance TSR or the maximum target eps for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale t he Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment t he targets set for the previously approved 2004 LTIP which expired in 2014 are shown on page 66 of the 2014 Annual Report.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 88.
77 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All employee share plans e ncourage employees, including the executive directors, to build a shareholding through the operation of all Purpose employee share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC tax advantaged Sharesave Scheme and the Internal Revenue Service IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan US ESPP in the US t he Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter into a savings contract, over Operation a period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted t he ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM i n the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a period of Maximum potentialvalue either three or five years currently 500 per month i n the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits currently up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower s ervice conditions apply Performance metrics Retirement benefits provision of competitive retirement benefits Purpose retain executive directors a ll defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new recruits Operation being offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and or a pension allowance l egacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as disclosed previously pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly Maximum potentialvalue c ompany pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances are capped at 25% of base salary for new executive directors and 30% of base salary under legacy arrangements b enefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% per annum on salary up to the notional pensionable salary cap from 6 April 2018 160,800 per annum not applicable Performance metrics Other benefits p rovision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors Purpose b enefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, disability Operation and medical and, in some jurisdictions, club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time s ome benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of an international relocation might also include fees for accommodation, childrens schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and professional advice etc t he value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances.
For Maximum potentialvalue example, the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in which the family is based not applicable Performance metrics 78 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shareholding requirement strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders Purpose Operation e xecutives will normally be expected to retain shares, net of sales to settle tax, through the exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP until they attain the required holding.
Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve the required shareholding.
It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding t he Chief Executives shareholding requirement is 250% of base salary.
The requirement for other executive Maximum potentialvalue directors is 200% of base salary.
This does not include any holdings of deferred shares or vested but unexercised share options or performance shares Performance metrics not applicable Performance measures and targets The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are a subset of the Companys KPIs.
For 2017, eps modified by RAOC was used for the annual bonus and eps and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP.
Other metrics based on the Companys KPIs may be used in the future where it is considered that they provide clear alignment with the evolving strategy of the Group.
Eps is one of the Companys KPIs.
The use of eps aligns the executive directors interests with those of shareholders.
In addition, one of the executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus determined by additional measures relating to PBITA and RAOC which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business area he is responsible for managing.
RAOC is another of the Companys KPIs.
The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on management of capital employed and profit growth by rewarding efficient profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital employed at the end of the year.
Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
This combination of performance measures provides a balance relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing acommon goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders.
As outlined on pages 72 and 73 earlier in this report, in addition to the measures referred to above, the Committee is introducing a balanced scorecard of performance measures which will include both operating cash flow and non-financial personal objective measures for the annual bonus plan for the executive directors in 2018 in addition to the existing eps and RAOC measures.
This is intended to provide greater alignment to the strategic KPIs and a more rounded assessment of performance.
For 2018, the bonus award will be based on the growth in eps, RAOC, operating cash flow and personal performance linked to certain strategic goals.
Operating cash flow is a measure that forms part of the Companys cash conversion KPI.
The use of operating cash flow ensures the focus on cash generation enabling the Group to pay dividends and to support the growth strategy by making acquisitions and reinvesting in the underlying business.
Personal objectives reward individual contribution to the success of the Company linked to certain specified strategic goals.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Companys annual budgeting process, the economic environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations, with payment made after the year end following the Committees assessment of performance relative to the targets.
Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors and employees in general The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance related pay such as bonus and long term incentives.
Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive pay, is greater for the executive directors.
This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited responsibility.
As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees currently 30 people are granted both executive share option and performance share awards.
Approximately 450 senior managers are granted executive share option awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for management in the Companys decentralised organisation structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates.
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role.
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost-effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership, an all employee share plan may be offered.
Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, the US and the UK.
In France, employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations.
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based and the function and seniority of the relevant role.
79 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within the Group.
In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share options and performance share awards.
In 2018 the majority of employees across the Group have received average salary increases ranging from 2.0%3.25%, dependent on geographical location with the principal exception being those employees based in Brazil, Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary increases are higher.
The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individuals contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase within the geographical regions for the broader employee population when determining the annual salary increases for the executive directors and is cognisant of the Groups overall employment arrangements when reviewing and implementing the executive directors remuneration policy.
Although the Committee did not consult with employees with regard to the remuneration policy of the executive directors, the Company does monitor employees views through regular employee surveys.
Recruitment of executive directors approach to remuneration For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion.
The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individuals current remuneration package and location.
In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
To ensure consistency across the Board, any variable pay awards for new executive director appointments will not exceed the maximum limits set out in the policy table above.
However, in addition, for an external appointment the Committee may consider offering additional cash and or share based elements to replace deferred awards forfeited by the individual on leaving their existing employment when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Such elements, as appropriate, would be made under Section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules and would take account of the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the awards forfeited.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment.
Executive directors service contracts Frank van Zantens service contract provides for an equal notice period from the Company and the executive of a maximum 12 months notice and any contracts for newly appointed executive directors will provide for equal notice in the future.
The other executive directors are employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of his contract.
Patrick Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below: Date of service contract Frank van Zanten 13 January 2016 Brian May 9 December 2005 Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 80 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy on payment for departure from office On termination of an executive directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders: Component of pay Voluntary resignation or termination for cause Death, ill health, disability excluding redundancy Departure on agreed terms Base salary, Paid for the proportion of the notice period Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including pension and worked and any untaken holidays pro-rated any untaken holidays pro-rated to such date.
In benefits to theleaving date the case of ill health, a payment in lieu of notice may be made and, according to the circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period Annual bonus cash Cessation of employment during a bonus year Cessation of employment during a bonus year or willnormally result in no cash bonus being paid after the year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date will result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and pro-rated for the relevant portion of the financial year worked and performance achieved Annual bonus Unvested deferred shares will lapse In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred shares deferred shares will be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after death.
In all other cases, Treatment will normally subject to the discretion of the Committee, fallbetween the two unvested deferred shares will be transferred to treatments described in the the individual on a date determined by the previous columns, subject Committee to the discretion of the Executive share Unvested executive share options will lapse Tax advantaged options will vest in full on the Committee and the terms options cessation of employment and be exercisable for of any termination the following 12 months after which any agreement.
However in the unexercised options will lapse case of retirement of an executive director unvested Subject to the discretion of the Committee, performance shares will unvested non-tax advantaged share options will normally be subject to time normally be retained by the individual for the proration based on the remainder of the vesting period and remain proportion of the subject to the relevant performance conditions.
performance period that However in the case of the death of an executive, has expired the Committee will determine the extent to which the unvested options may be exercised within 12 months of the date of death Performance Unvested performance shares will lapse Subject to the discretion of the Committee, shares unvested performance shares will normally be retained by the individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions but may be subject to time proration.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine theextent to which the unvested performance shares may be exercised within 12 months of thedate of death Options under As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations Sharesave Other None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees Note The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e. g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
81 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Discretions retained by the Committee in operating the incentive plans The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans: determining the timing of grants and or payments: determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans: determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation ofcapital and special dividends : and under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
2018 Remuneration overview The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits and performance based variable elements cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP.
The Committee has set a guideline that for on-target performance approximately half of the remuneration package should be performance related.
The structure of the remuneration packages for on-target and stretch performance for each of the executive directors for 2018, in line with the remuneration policy, is illustrated in the bar charts below.
Frank van Zanten 86% 14% Below threshold performance Total 1,429,769 42% 7% 26% 25% Target performance Total 2,903,924 28% 5% 34% 33% Stretch performance Total 4,378,079 Brian May 75% 25% Below threshold performance Total 766,151 35% 12% 25% 28% Target performance Total 1,630,391 23% 8% 33% 36% Stretch performance Total 2,494,631 Patrick Larmon 98% 2% Below threshold performance Total 872,987 1% 40% 28% 31% Target performance Total 2,147,333 25% 1% 36% 38% Stretch performance Total 3,421,680 Salary and benefits Pension Bonus Cash DASBS LTIP Notes a Salary represents annual salary for 2018.
Benefits such as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance have been included based on 2017 figures.
In the case of Frank van Zanten, benefits also include the international relocation package including accommodation, which are gross amounts before taxes, referred to on page 85.
Patrick Larmons salary is paid in US dollars and has been translated at the 2017 year end closing exchange rate of 1: US$1.35.
b Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2017 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance forFrank van Zanten and Brian May and the total of the Companys contributions to Patrick Larmons 401K Plan and Retirement Savings Benefit the RSB.
No further contributions were made for Patrick Larmon through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA, further details of which are shown on page88.
c Below threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
82 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED d Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level i. e. for 2018 an on-target bonus of 90% of base salary for Frank van Zanten and 75% of base salary for Brian May and Patrick Larmon comprised of half cash and half deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level i. e for 2018, the maximum annual bonus will be 180% of base salary for Frank van Zanten and 150% of base salary for Brian May and Patrick Larmon comprised of half cash and half deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest delivering 100% of their face value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
Legacy arrangements The directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM gave authority to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports or internally promoted future directors in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the remuneration report as they arise.
Policy of executive directors external appointments With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Non-executive directors terms of appointment On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below: Date of last Length of Date of re-appointment service as at appointment at AGM 2018 AGM Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 19 April 2017 8 years 3 months David Sleath 1 September 2007 n a n a Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 19 April 2017 7 years Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 19 April 2017 5 years 3 months Vanda Murray 1 February 2015 19 April 2017 3 years 2 months Lloyd Pitchford 1 March 2017 19 April 2017 1 year 1 month Stephan Nanninga 1 May 2017 n a 11 months David Sleath retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM held on 19 April 2017 and Lloyd Pitchford was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 1 March 2017 and assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee upon David Sleaths retirement.
At the same time Vanda Murray assumed the role of Senior Independent Director.
Stephan Nanninga was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 1 May 2017.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid directors fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees policy for Chairman and non-executive directors the NEDs p rovision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the Purpose implementation of the Companys strategy d etermined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated with Operation the roles annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year t he Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to reflect their additional responsibilities t he NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans.
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed t he NEDs fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairmans fee is reviewed biennially, the latest review being with effect from January 2018 t he Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration: the Chairmans fees are set by the Committee d etermined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the Maximum potentialvalue Companys Articles of Association n ot eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration Performance metrics 83 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to its policy.
The Committee consulted with major shareholders and proxy voting groups on the remuneration policy that was approved at the 2017 AGM and the performance measures for the annual bonus plan for executive directors in 2018.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR 2017 Committee remit and membership The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2017: Date of appointment to Meetings eligible Meetings the Committee to attend attendance David Sleath 5 December 2007 1 1 Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 4 4 Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 4 4 Vanda Murray 1 February 2015 4 4 Lloyd Pitchford 1 March 2017 3 3 Stephan Nanninga 1 May 2017 3 3 Notes a David Sleath retired from the Board on 19 April 2017. b Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 March 2017. c Stephan Nanninga was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company and as a member of the Committee with effect from 1 May 2017.
The Secretary to the Committee is Julie Welch, Director of Group Human Resources.
No director plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section of the Companys website, www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group: determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Companys long term incentive plans: ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Companys strategy and performance, having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking: and communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Companys stakeholders as and when appropriate.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee In carrying out their responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary.
During the year the Committee received advice from Willis Towers Watson WTW and Aon Hewitt.
WTW provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels.
Aon Hewitt provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to existing share option and performance share awards under the LTIP had been satisfied and in addition advised the Committee on the changes to the remuneration policy.
The fees payable to each adviser, based on hourly rates, were: 15,288 WTW and 31,203 Aon Hewitt respectively for such work undertaken in 2017.
Statement of voting at the 2017 AGM for the remuneration report and the remuneration policy The remuneration report and remuneration policy received the following shareholder votes in 2017, being the years that they were last voted on by shareholders: Votes Votes % of shares Votes % of shares Votes cast For voted Against voted Withheld Remuneration report 2017 AGM 268,619,208 262,640,824 97.77 5,978,384 2.23 2,461,315 Remuneration policy 2017 AGM 259,865,084 239,494,126 92.16 20,370,958 7.84 11,215,438 Notes a The votes For include votes given at the Company Chairmans discretion.
b A vote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of the votes cast.
The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of the DASBS.
Shares relating to the 2016 deferred bonus were awarded in 2017 as shown in the table on page 93 and the shares relating to the 2017 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2018. c Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families.
In addition to these, Frank van Zantens benefits include an international relocation package from Amsterdam to London following his appointment as Chief Executive in April 2016, together with any associated tax liability relating to such package.
This includes assistance with accommodation, removal costs and school fees.
In addition Patrick Larmons club fees are paid by the Company.
d The long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in April 2014 and under the 2014 LTIP granted in October 2014 and February and August 2015.
Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon through the ESPP described on page 78. e The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1:29 in respect of 2017 and 1: US$1:36 in respect of 2016. f The value of the LTIP award for Frank van Zanten for 2016 relates to vesting of awards that were granted prior to him becoming Chief Executive.
g The figures shown in relation to 2016 for the LTIP have been restated from those figures shown in the 2016 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the relevant grant price and the value of the LTIP share option awards on the actual date of vesting on 27 February 2017 and 29 August 2017 at the closing mid-market share price of 2,245p and 2,283p respectively.
b Vanda Murray became Senior Independent Director on 19 April 2017. c Lloyd Pitchford and Stephan Nanninga joined the Board on 1 March 2017 and 1 May 2017 respectively.
d In addition to the remuneration paid to the directors in 2016 shown above, Meinie Oldersma, who resigned as a non-executive director on 22 August 2016, received remuneration of 43,800 in respect of the period 1 January 2016 to 22 August 2016. e In addition to payment of the fees shown in the table above, the Company also incurs the travel and subsistence expenses of the Chairman and the non-executive directors relating to their attendance at Board and Committee meetings, together with any associated tax liability relating to such expenses.
No payments were or are to be made to former directors in respect of loss of office.
No other payments were made to former directors during the year, with the exception of the amounts paid to Michael Roney in respect of the exercise of executive share options, performance share awards and deferred annual share bonus awards granted prior to his retirement as referred to in the Directors remuneration report for 2016.
Executive directors annual salary audited information Executive directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2017 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary Salary Increase from from in salary 1 January 1 January 2016 to 2017 2016 2017 Frank van Zanten 816,000 800,000 2.0% Brian May 540,600 530,000 2.0% Patrick Larmon US$1,081,200 US$1,060,000 2.0% Note Frank van Zantens base salary was 800,000 from 20 April 2016 upon his appointment as Chief Executive.
Executive directors salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2018 and the increases awarded are shown on page 92.
85 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive directors external appointments Frank van Zanten served as a non-executive director of Grafton Group plc in 2017 and during the year retained fees of 70,000.
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC in 2017 and during the year retained fees of 79,867.
Patrick Larmon servedas a non-executive director of Bodycote plc in 2017 and retained fees of 54,372.
In addition, he served as a non-executive directorofHuttig Building Products, Inc. in 2017 and retained fees of US$146,025 which included US$77,025 worth of deferred shares whichvested in 2017.
Non-executive directors fees audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years and, as a result, no review took place during 2017.
The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2017 in accordance with the normal fees policy.
With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees January 2017 in 2016 2016 to 2017 Chairmans fee 340,000 340,000 Non-executive director fee 68,850 67,500 2.0% Supplements: Senior Independent Director 17,000 16,000 6.25% Audit Committee Chairman 17,000 16,000 6.25% Remuneration Committee Chairman 17,000 16,000 6.25% The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2018 and the increases awarded are shown on page 93.
Performance against annual bonus targets audited information The annual bonus plan and DASBS currently operate as set out in the policy section on pages 75 and 76.
All of Frank van Zantens and Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus potential in 2017 related to growth in the Companys constant exchange rate eps relative to budget which was modified by the achievement of the Groups RAOC relative to budget.
For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus potential related to the PBITA performance of North America NA which was modified by the achievement of NAs RAOC relative to the target set and measured on a constant exchange rate basis.
The results for 2017 against the targets set were as follows: Performance against targets Primary Modifier On-target % actual constant 2017 bonus as % of RAOC for the 2017 bonus bonus opportunity Threshold Target Stretch exchange rate eps salary before Group relative award as % Group performance as % salary eps eps eps relative to target modifier applied to target 53.4% of salary 104.5% of target Frank van Zanten 75% 114.4 116.8 127.8 110.5 0.989 109.2 performance 104.5% of target Brian May 70% 114.4 116.8 127.8 96.0 0.989 94.9 performance 104.5% of target Patrick Larmon 17.5% 114.4 116.8 127.8 24.0 0.989 23.7 performance Target NA PBITA On-target constant % PBITA of Bonus as % RAOC for the 2017 bonus NA bonus opportunity exchange NA businesses of salary before NA businesses award as % performance as % of salary rate US$ relative to target modifier applied relative to target of salary 102% of target Patrick Larmon 52.5% US$402.4m performance 63.7 0.949 60.5 Notes a For the Group performance table above the annual on-target bonus opportunity for Frank van Zanten is 75% of salary with a threshold award of 49% of salary and a maximum award of 150%.
For Brian May and Patrick Larmon the annual on-target bonus opportunity is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 49% of salary for Brian May and 31% of salary for Patrick Larmon and a maximum award of 125 % of salary for both Brian May and Patrick Larmon.
For Group performance, threshold performance was 97.9% of target and the maximum bonus award would have been paid out at 109.4% of target.
For NA performance, threshold performance was 95% of target and the maximum bonus award would have been paid out at 107.5% of target.
b The bonuses derived from the primary measures shown above are increased, decreased or remain unchanged according to the RAOC modifier, being the actual RAOC achieved relative to target RAOC.
The RAOC modifier is unlikely to change the bonus determined by the primary measure by more than 5% up or down.
c At target exchange rates the adjusted eps for 2017 was 122.0p.
86 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plans were: Total bonus payment cash and deferred shares as a % of salary 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 % % % % % Frank van Zanten 109.2 75.3 Brian May 94.9 76.6 73.8 98.0 104.2 Patrick Larmon 84.2 65.7 54.5 69.7 85.3 The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2017 and 2016 are included in the table on page 85.
LTIP grants awards with performance periods ending in 2017 audited information Executive share option awards LTIP Part A Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 26 February 2018 and 27 August 2018.
The Committee assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance condition: LTIP Part A 26 February 2015 and 27 August 2015 awards Performance Vesting Threshold target Maximum target Actual eps % vesting Measure schedule 5% p. a.
8% p. a. growth max 100% 25% vesting for Eps growth target performance, over three year period 100% vesting for 15.8% 26.0% 38.5% 100% to 31 December 2017 maximum performance Estimated Date of Number of Vesting value of grant shares granted outcome award vesting Frank van Zanten 26 February 2015 15,300 100% 40,086 27 August 2015 17,396 100% 86,110 Brian May 26 February 2015 25,500 100% 66,810 27 August 2015 29,001 100% 143,555 Patrick Larmon 26 February 2015 33,300 100% 87,246 27 August 2015 37,639 100% 186,313 Note Included in the single total remuneration table on page 85 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the exercise price and the average of the Companys closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2017 2,182p.
Performance shares LTIP Part B Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 4 April 2014 under the 2004 LTIP and 6 October 2014 under the 2014 LTIP and vested during 2017.
The Committee assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance conditions: LTIP Part B 4 April 2014 award RPI growth Threshold target Maximum target Performance Vesting Dec 2013 4% p. a. above 10% p. a. above Actual eps % vesting Measure schedule to Dec 2016 RPI growth RPI growth growth max 50% 25% vesting for Eps growth relative threshold to RPI over performance, 5.4% 17.9% 38.5% 28.8% 32.3% three year period to 100% vesting for 31 December 2016 maximum performance Performance Performance Vesting Threshold target Maximum target % vesting Measure period schedule median upper quartile Actual TSR max 50% 25% vesting TSR relative for threshold to comparator 1 April 2014 to performance, 35.1% 55.5% 55.5% group 50.0% 31 March 2017 100% vesting 19.5th out of 38 10th out of 38 10th out of 38 of bespoke for maximum peer companies performance 87 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP Part B 6 October 2014 Threshold target Maximum target Performance Vesting 6% p. a.
Actual eps % vesting measure schedule compounded compounded growth max 50% 25% vesting fortarget EPS growth over performance, three year period to 19.1% 40.5% 28.8% 29.4% 100% vesting for 31 December 2016 maximum performance Performance Performance Vesting Threshold target Maximum target % vesting Measure period schedule median upper quartile Actual TSR max 50% 25% vesting TSR relative for threshold to comparator 1 October 2014 to performance, 30.7% 86.7% 48.2% group 26.4% 30 September 2017 100% vesting 16.5th out of 32 8.5th out of 32 13.5th out of 32 of bespoke for maximum peer companies performance Date of Number of Vesting Vesting Value of grant shares granted outcome eps outcome TSR award vesting Frank van Zanten 4 April 2014 12,150 32.3% 50.0% 232,877 6 October 2014 12,300 29.4% 26.4% 158,398 Brian May 4 April 2014 16,500 32.3% 50.0% 316,255 6 October 2014 16,500 29.4% 26.4% 212,498 4 April 2014 18,500 32.3% 50.0% 354,590 Patrick Larmon 6 October 2014 20,900 29.4% 26.4% 269,136 Note Included in the single total figure of remuneration on page 85 is the value of these vested awards at the closing mid-market share price on the dates of vesting, 4 April 2017 and 6 October 2017, which were 2,329p and 2,308p respectively.
Total pension entitlements audited information Value of cash allowance Additional Pension including Pension plans value value in any company DC normal of pension the year and or 401k Total retirement on early from DB contributions pension age retirement scheme in 2017 2017 Frank van Zanten 204,000 204,000 Brian May 60 78,838 116,190 195,028 Patrick Larmon 65 17,171 17,171 Notes a As Chief Executive Frank van Zanten receives a pension allowance of 25% of base salary.
b Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit DB sections of the Bunzl Pension Plan BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP.
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap.
The pensionable salary cap is notionally 154,200 for tax year 2017 18 and 150,600 for tax year 2016 17.
The employee contribution rate is currently 10% of pensionable salary.
c In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, ofhis own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
d Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued.
Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution DC plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2017 of 7,752 2016: 7,352. e In addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Patrick Larmons SERA, which became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
No further SERA payments were made in 2017 and 2016. f Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, LLC Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2017 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to 9,419 2016: 8,768.
88 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP grant policy Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior executives.
Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of announcement of the Companys results.
Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year.
Executive share options were granted in March and September 2017 and performance share awards were granted in April and October 2017 under the 2014 LTIP in accordance with the policy and performance conditions as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Options were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part A on 2 March 2017 and on 1 September 2017 at a value of 2,335p and 2,310p per share respectively.
Performance shares were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part B on 10 April 2017 and on 9 October 2017 at a value of 2,346p and 2,308p per share respectively.
Performance conditions for 2017 awards The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2014 LTIP to the Companys executive directors, Executive Committee members and selected key employees in 2017 were as detailed below.
Executive share option awards LTIP Part A Executive share options may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable Below 5% Nil 5% 25% Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%100% 8% or above 100% Performance share awards LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 6% Nil 6% 25% Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%100% 12% or above 100% 89 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
These performance share awards may vest based on the following sliding scale: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% The applicable comparator group for the 2017 awards were those companies in the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors.
Shareholder dilution In accordance with The Investment Association Principles of Remuneration, the Company can satisfy awards to employees under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in a rolling 10 year period.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury, 5% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation to satisfy awards under executive discretionary plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 78.
Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and the International and Irish Sharesave Plans.
Awards under the LTIP ofexecutive options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which buys shares on the market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Cumulative options and performance shares granted as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards as at 31 December 2017 10% in any rolling 10 year period 2.1% 5% in any rolling 10 year period executive discretionary plans 1.2% Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information As at 31 December 2017, all executive directors and their connected persons have a shareholding as follows: Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2017 at the closing mid-market price 2,072p Frank van Zanten 207% Brian May 403% Patrick Larmon 324% Note Under the terms of the Companys remuneration policy applicable on his appointment as Chief Executive, Frank van Zanten has a period of up to three years to build up his shareholding requirement of not less than 200% of his base salary.
This requirement has increased to 250% under the new remuneration policy approved at the 2017 AGM.
In his previous role, he was not required to meet a shareholding requirement.
90 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Interests in shares and share options The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Companys ordinary shares and share options to 31 December 2017 were: Total Shares Options LTIP Part A and Sharesave interests held Unvested Unvested and subject and subject to Unvested Unvested to holding performance and subject to subject to Vested Owned period conditions performance continued but not outright DASBS LTIP Part B conditions employment exercised Frank van Zanten 81,478 27,670 94,036 161,737 1,642 18,800 385,363 Brian May 105,240 31,753 79,615 146,167 2,173 76,000 440,948 Patrick Larmon 130,896 34,954 116,766 210,385 155,000 648,001 Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000 David Sleath 4,000 4,000 Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000 Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500 Vanda Murray 3,000 3,000 Lloyd Pitchford 4,000 4,000 Stephan Nanninga As David Sleath retired from the Board on 19 April 2017, the above reflects his holding at that date.
500 Bunzl Performance graph and table FTSE 350 Support Services 450 Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Companies and Groups Accounts and 400 Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the 350 Company must provide a graph comparing 300 the TSR performance of a hypothetical 250 holding of shares in the Company with a 200 broad equity market index over a nine year period.
The Companys TSR performance 150 against the FTSE 350 Support Services 100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sector over a nine year period commencing on 1January 2009 is shown to the right.
This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in the ordinary shares of Bunzl plc on 1 January 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Support Services on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Chief Executives pay in last nine years audited information The table below summarises the Chief Executives single total figure of remuneration, annual bonus and long term incentive pay out as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2017 and the previous eight years.
There was no bonus award for Michael Roney in relation to 2016. b The data for 2016 also includes the amounts relating to Frank van Zanten from 20 April to 31 December 2016 including the bonus award for that period and the international relocation package with accommodation benefit support, but excludes the LTIP awards made to him in his previous role that vested during the period from 20 April to 31December 2016. c All years prior to 2016 relate to Michael Roney.
d No LTIP awards that were granted to Frank van Zanten since he became Chief Executive on 20 April 2016 vested during 2016. e The single total figure of remuneration in relation to 2016 has been restated from the figure shown in the 2016 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the grant price and the value of the relevant LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting as detailed in Note f to the table of the single total figure of remuneration 2017 on page 85.
91 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 Value rebased STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management population.
This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries have theGroups largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package.
Employees from businesses acquired byBunzl in 2017 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
UK and US management Chief Executive population Percentage Percentage change change 2017 vs 2016 2017 vs 2016 Salary 2% 7% Benefits 1% 9% Bonus 45% -14% Notes a The 2016 bonus for the Chief Executive is based on the annualised bonus for Frank van Zanten in his role as Chief Executive.
b Benefits are annualised and exclude the international relocation package benefit for Frank van Zanten of 372,245. c US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year.
d Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2017 and 2016 as stated in Note 21 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 136 and 131 respectively.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2017 2016 change Overall expenditure on pay 725.8 647.3 12.1% Dividend paid in the year 138.2 125.4 10.2% Notes a Overall expenditure on pay excludes employers social security costs.
b Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial years interim and final dividends.
c The percentage change in overall expenditure on pay includes the impact of changes in exchange rates from 2016 to 2017, the background to which is referred to in the ChiefExecutives review on page 6 and in the Financial review on page 25.
2018 Remuneration audited information The current remuneration policy was implemented with effect from the 2017 AGM and continues to apply for 2018.
Salary The salary increases for the executive directors for 2018, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees in the Group as discussed on page 80, are as follows: Salary from Salary from Increase in 1 January 1 January salary 2018 2017 2017 to 2018 Frank van Zanten 836,400 816,000 2.5% Brian May 554,000 540,600 2.5% Patrick Larmon US$1,102,800 US$1,081,200 2.0% Note The average sterling: dollar exchange rate for 2017 was 1: $1.29.
92 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2018 bonus targets The structure for Frank van Zantens, Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons annual bonus for 2018 is described on pages 75 and 76.
For 2018, a balanced scorecard of performance measures is being introduced, based on eps, RAOC, operating cash flow and specified strategic goals and with an eps underpin.
If eps performance falls below the threshold level there will be no bonus paid.
The Committee has also introduced increased stretch into the eps metric.
The level of outperformance required for a maximum bonus has been increased to 112% of target.
At the same time, the threshold is only 7% below target maintaining an asymmetric range.
For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of PBITA performance of North America relative to budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of North Americas RAOC relative to the target set.
The relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
These performance points are determined at the start of the year by reference to the annual budget.
As in previous years, the specific performance points are not disclosed while still commercially sensitive, but are disclosed the following year.
Performance measures for long term incentives to be awarded in 2018 Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in 2018 will be subject to the same performance conditions as those executive share options and performance share awards granted in 2017 as detailed on pages 89 and 90.
Chairmans and non-executive directors fees for 2018 audited information The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2018.
The Chairman's fee is reviewed every two years with the previous review in January 2016.
The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually.
The current fee structure for the Chairman and the non-executive directors is shown below: With effect Increase from 1 January Fees paid in fees 2018 in 2017 2017 to 2018 Chairmans fee 357,000 340,000 5.0% Non-executive director basic fee 70,400 68,850 2.25% Supplements: Senior Independent Director 18,000 17,000 5.88% Audit Committee Chairman 18,000 17,000 5.88% Remuneration Committee Chairman 18,000 17,000 5.88% Additional information on directors interests Details of the executive directors interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are set out below.
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2017 The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company and any director with an interest in the Company during 2017 under theDASBS are set out in the table below.
Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 75.
No shares lapsed during the year.
93 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP during 2017.
c Executive share options granted in February 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A.
Executive share options granted since then have been granted under the 2014 LTIP Part A. d The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A.
Details of the Sharesave Schemes are set out on page 78.
