66 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement from the Chair of the Committee Changes to remuneration policy Dear Shareholder The review of the remuneration policy was principally focused on how the business and the environment in which it operates has progressed since our current policy It was with great sadness we announced that was approved by shareholders in 2015.
The review focused on the following areas: the Chair of the Committee, Bob Stack passed away in December 2017.
After serving on the The alignment of remuneration with IMIs strategic objectives: Committee for 5 years I assumed the role of Chair, and on behalf of the Committee I would The relationship between pay and performance: like to take the opportunity to acknowledge Pay design trends, governance developments and Bob Stacks contribution in the 8 years he investor views: and served as Chair during which time he received The market competitiveness of the current policy strong shareholder support for our remuneration compared to peers.
Consensus amongst the Committee was that as IMI is in the midst of a five-year strategic plan, radical change to the existing policy is not desired, It is testament to my former colleagues nor necessary.
Further, our current policy has maintained a strong pay-forcharacter that despite his illness he did during performance relationship during its period of implementation and provides 2017 lead the Committee in its review of IMIs executives with a competitive but not excessive opportunity for reward.
executive remuneration policy, with the That said, the Committee is mindful of the current developments surrounding objective of ensuring that it continues to executive pay and alignment with pay of the wider workforce.
The new policy support the delivery of our strategic growth will therefore: plan and that there remains a strong pay for performance relationship.
Following this Reduce the pension allowance for new hires review, we are proposing no major changes, Reduce the current maximum pension allowance for new hires from 30% to but some adaptations to the existing executive 25% of base salary for a Chief Executive and 20% for any other executive remuneration arrangements to further align director.
The Committee considers this to be a more equitable ratio with the executive and shareholder long-term interests.
wider employee pension provision at management level whilst balancing We will be seeking your approval of this new legacy commitments to incumbents.
This follows a previous reduction in the remuneration policy at the upcoming Annual maximum from 35% to 30% when the current policy was introduced in 2015.
Adopt a two year post-vesting holding period for shares arising from long-term incentive awards As part of the policy review process, both The Committee discussed at length the appropriateness of introducing other Bob Stack and I had the opportunity to new features into the new remuneration policy.
Having given due regard to the consult with a number of our shareholders feedback from our shareholders on proposals put to them, it concluded that it and shareholder representative bodies who is appropriate to adopt a two year post-vesting holding period for any awards have helped shape our policy decisions.
made after the new policy is approved.
This new feature is in addition to the existing share ownership guidelines, which require executive directors to build Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 67 and then maintain a shareholding in IMI worth at least 250% of salary for Annual incentives paid to executive directors in respect of performance in the Chief Executive, Mark Selway, 150% of salary for the Finance Director, 2017 continued to be based on a combination of Group adjusted profit before Dan Shook and 200% of salary for Executive Director, Roy Twite.
tax, organic revenue growth, cash conversion and strategic and personal objectives.
2017 saw strong financial performance with high achievement Continue to enforce mandatory annual bonus deferral against targets set 12 months ago and in the context of the continued under current share ownership guidelines challenging environment in which the business operates, targets set in respect The new policy will continue to require retention in shares of 50% of of financial metrics for the annual incentive scheme and in terms of the any annual bonus earned and of any vested long-term incentive until strategic and personal objectives.
The Committee is confident that the annual the minimum share ownership guideline is achieved.
incentive outcomes ranging between 77.9% and 96.8% of maximum for the executive directors represent a fair reflection of the business and individual Enhance disclosures performance in the context of the continued challenging environment in In addition to the policy revisions disclosed above, the Committee has which the business has been operating.
made further disclosure enhancements to the Annual Remuneration 2018 marks the first year of potential vesting under the IMI Incentive Plan Report in areas including: IIP, approved by shareholders in 2015.
Mark Selway, Roy Twite and Dan Long-term incentive award performance conditions: Shook were granted a performance share award under the IIP in 2015 and the awards will vest at 6.55% in May 2018.
Annual incentive targets in respect of IMI Critical Engineering as they relate to Roy Twite: Base salaries in 2018 Personal objectives element of annual bonus The Committee reviewed the base salary levels for the Chief Executive, performance measures: and Mark Selway and Executive Director, Roy Twite in light of the 2017 business Share ownership guidelines.
performance and concluded that an increase of 2.6% effective 1 January 2018, was appropriate and in line with the wider employee workforce.
The Committee strongly believes that these new policy features, together The Committee agreed to increase the base salary level for Daniel Shook, with the enhancements to annual disclosures, will further strengthen Finance Director by 5% to reflect the excellent progress made during shareholder alignment and transparency.
his three year tenure with the Company and taking into account he was appointed on a base salary lower than his predecessor and his remuneration Pay for performance in 2017 when compared to Chief Financial Officers in similar size businesses.
Our focus this year has been twofold: to ensure consistent application of our outgoing policy and to ensure remuneration arrangements remain The fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors were also reviewed appropriate in light of the continuing tough economic and market conditions.
and were increased by 2.6%, effective 1 January 2018, in line with the executive directors and the wider employee workforce, for which the 2017 has been a year of good progress for IMI even against continued average increase awarded for 2018 is around 3%.
mixed economic and market conditions.
Group adjusted profit before tax has increased by 7.7% to 224.1m while organic revenue growth remained flat Looking forward with revenue at 1,751m on a constant currency basis.
Cash conversion My predecessor and the Committee have devoted a considerable amount remained strong at 92% in 2017 and shareholders will receive a dividend of time to reviewing the executive remuneration framework over the year.
of 39.4p an increase of 2% from last year assuming the final dividend Subject to shareholder approval, it is our intention that the new policy will recommendation is approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
operate for the next three years, as the Executive team continues to focus on Our various initiatives to harness the Groups potential continue to progress delivering long-term value to you, our shareholders.
On behalf of Bob Stack well.
We remain committed to investment in new product development to fuel and myself I would like to personally thank those investors that took the time growth, improving operational performance to enhance our competitiveness to participate in our consultation exercise and engage with us in developing and investing to modernise our IT infrastructure.
The business continues to our proposed policy.
We hope that the new policy will meet with your support successfully implement cost-reduction activities on time and on budget that at the upcoming 2018 Annual General Meeting.
support near term financial results, and also through acquisitions including Bimba Manufacturing which support our long-term strategic agenda.
Birgit Nrgaard The Committee monitors and takes into account the financial and strategic Chair of the Remuneration Committee on benefits of such initiatives when making pay decisions.
behalf of the Board How were pay outcomes linked to performance 1 March 2018 in 2017?
Remuneration for the executive directors is closely tied to business performance with a high proportion of total remuneration delivered through variable pay linked to our strategic plan and budget.
68 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy M W Selway The Remuneration Committee the Committee presents the Directors Remuneration Policy Long-term incentives Bonus Report, which will be put to shareholders for Fixed pay a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 3 May 2018.
Subject to 000 5,000 4,831 shareholder approval, the effective date of this policy will be 3 May 2018.
The intention of the 4,000 Committee is that the policy will normally 43% remain in place for three years.
3,000 2,467 21% Illustrations of the application of 2,000 34% IMIs remuneration policy 33% 1,132 To illustrate the opportunity available to our executive directors, and the 1,000 46% 23% sensitivity of pay to performance, the graphs on this page set out pay 100% outcomes under three performance scenarios: Minimum On-target Maximum minimum, where pay is limited to fixed, non-performance components based on 2018 salaries, the corresponding pension allowance and Salary 822 822 822 other benefits : Pension 30% 30% 30% on-target, where annual bonus and long-term incentives vest at Benefits 63 63 63 on-target levels: and: Annual Incentive Bonus 0% 100% 200% maximum, where all variable pay components vest in full.
IIP 0% 62.5% 250% The charts are based on proposed IMI Incentive Plan awards for 2018.
No share price growth or dividend assumptions are made and all-employee share plans are excluded.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 69 Future policy table executive directors Fixed elements of executive remuneration Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Performance Salary Reviewed annually with changes normally Normally any salary increase for an N A effective from January.
executive director will be in line with Reflects individual those of the wider workforce.
Increases performance and The Committee takes into account the beyond this may be awarded in certain personal contribution to level of increase for the wider executive circumstances, such as a change in delivering strategy.
Set population, market data, business responsibility or development in role, in the context of total performance, external economic factors, after taking into account the factors pay levels.
the complexity of the business and noted opposite.
the role, cost, and the incumbents experience and performance.
Pension A cash allowance in lieu of pension is Up to 25% of salary for any new hire N A paid monthly.
To the extent required by who becomes Chief Executive and Provides for retirement law, part of this allowance will be paid 20% of salary for any other new and supports succession into a defined contribution pension executive director.
With the Committees This represents a reduction in approval the executive directors may maximum contributions compared redirect all or part of the balance of this to the current policy.
allowance into a defined contribution Legacy obligations will continue to be pension arrangement.
honoured in respect of serving executive directors Chief Executive 30% and Roy Twite 35%.
Benefits The policy provides a normal range of The value of benefits vary year-on-year N A benefits to executive directors.
These depending on the age and health of the Protects the well-being include but are not limited to: individual, the cost of providing them and of executives and the geography in which the executive is provides fair and Non-cash: private healthcare for based.
However, the range of benefits is reasonable market themselves and their family, life insurance, not expected to change from year to year.
and other ancillary benefits including the use of a company driver.
Should it be appropriate to relocate an executive director or to recruit an Cash and taxable allowances: car and executive director from overseas, fuel allowance, personal tax advice and flexibility is reserved to provide benefits four annual round trips for the Chief that ensure that the individual and IMI Executive or his family between work can both achieve the commercial and home locations.
Relocation costs: where it is in IMIs interests to request that executives work in a different country or region then we may pay relocation and provide benefits and allowances in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
Expenses: expenses that are incurred by an executive director in undertaking their role are reimbursed together with any tax arising on such benefits where the Company considers it fair and reasonable to do so.
Typically these might include business travel, meals and client entertainment, and are provided in the form of an allowance or reimbursement.
70 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy Variable components of executive remuneration Component & purpose Operation Annual opportunity Performance 1 Annual Incentive Based on annual performance relative Up to a maximum of 200% of salary In 2018 the performance measures will Bonus to set targets.
be Group adjusted profit before tax 40%, Percentage of award payable organic revenue growth 20%, cash Drives and rewards If the executive has not achieved their straight-line between points : conversion 20%, strategic and personal performance against share ownership guideline, up to half Threshold 0% objectives 20% with a health and safety annual financial, strategic of any bonus must be invested into underpin.
Target 50% and operational goals, IMI shares for at least three years.
Once which are consistent the share ownership guidelines is met, Maximum 100% The Committee has the discretion to with the medium to longan executive can elect to receive their determine the appropriate measures term strategic goals of bonus in cash and or shares.
Dividends and targets annually to ensure alignment IMI.
Takes into account or equivalent value payments accrue with strategy.
Normally these will be a individual behaviours and are payable in cash or shares combination of measures linked to the and contributions.
financial and non-financial performance of IMI.
Recovery provisions are included in the plan rules allowing for malus and clawback.
IMI Incentive Plan The Committee can make annual shareNormal award: Up to 250% of salary In 2018 the performance measures IIP based awards.
Dividends or equivalent will be Group adjusted profit before tax Maximum award: 400% of salary to be value payments accrue and are payable in growth 50%, ROCE 25% and relative Incentivises longused in exceptional circumstances only cash or shares in respect of vested awards.
2 term value creation, e. g. upon recruitment aligning the interests If the executive has not achieved their share The Committee has discretion to determine If an award above the normal maximum of executives and ownership guideline, 50% of vested share appropriate measures, targets and ranges is made, full details will be provided in shareholders through awards must be retained.
Notwithstanding in respect of each award when made.
the following years Annual Report on share awards.
this requirement, any vested share awards remuneration.
Performance metrics will be subject to a sale restriction for a Percentage of award payable support the long-term period of 2 years from the date of vesting, straight-line between points : strategy of IMI and the subject to the executive being permitted vehicle and time horizon to sell such number of shares as may be Threshold 25% provides a retention tool required to settle tax liabilities as they Maximum 100% for key executives.
Other executive director remuneration policies Share Ownership Guidelines It is a requirement of the remuneration policy that executive directors are subject to guidelines which require them to build a shareholding in IMI worth at least 250% of salary for M W Selway, 150% of salary for D J Shook and 200% of salary for R M Twite.
Policy permits the Committee to determine that 50% of any annual bonus earned is deferred into shares until the share ownership guideline is achieved together with 50% of any vested share awards.
Each executive is then required to maintain at least this share ownership guideline level subject to allowances for share price fluctuations and changes in base salary thereafter.
When assessing compliance with this guideline the Committee reviews both the level of beneficial share ownership and vested but unexercised share incentive awards on a post-tax basis.
1 These are the same performance measures as 2017.
2 Refer to page 72 for further details.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 71 Additional notes to the future policy table All-Employee Share Plans IMI operates an HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme Setting of performance measures and targets which is open to all of the Groups UK employees, including the UK-based The Committee reviews and selects performance measures, targets and executive directors.
The scheme seeks to encourage share ownership ranges annually, which take account of the economic conditions and amongst the broader employee population in a tax efficient manner and the priorities of IMI at the time.
Details of the performance measures operates subject to statutory requirements including a limit on the level of are included in the Annual Report each year.
At the time of selecting savings that can be used to acquire shares.
The Group also has a global performance measures, the Committee determines the performance targets share plan, the operation of which varies by geography, which executive that will apply in respect of each measure.
Factors that the Committee directors can participate in on the same terms as other employees.
may consider include the strategic plan, the annual budget, analysts forecasts, economic conditions, individuals areas of responsibilities and Differences in the remuneration policy for executives the Committees expectations over the relevant period.
Depending on the relative to the broader employee population nature of the measure e. g. health and safety, the Committee may exercise The remuneration framework in place for the executive directors is informed judgement in assessing performance and determining the level of vesting.
by the remuneration structure that applies to the broader employee population.
While absolute levels and the provision of certain components, Principles for the impact of corporate transactions benefits and allowances vary by geography and level, the overarching The Committee has established principles that determine the way in themes are consistent: which corporate transactions will impact remuneration.
It is clear that any corporate transaction, which is in the best interests of IMI and its we aim to offer competitive remuneration at all levels of the organisation shareholders, should not have an adverse impact on remuneration.
to attract and retain highly qualified employees: The principles include the need for management to be treated in a salaries are reviewed annually with any increases made on a discretionary manner consistent with shareholders in respect to the rights to equity, basis and informed by factors such as those set out in the policy table: that performance should be measured on a like-for-like basis, that there should be no compensation for adverse or favourable tax consequences consistent with executive directors, the leadership group participates in and that any changes to performance computations will be reviewed by annual bonus plans with measures linked to corporate, divisional and or the Companys auditors.
local performance depending on seniority: a wider executive population can be considered for awards under the IIP.
Recovery provisions At lower levels, employees can also be considered for discretionary share The Committee has the power to operate malus and or clawback provisions awards with a pre-grant performance test.
IMIs share plans are intended in the event that the Company misstated financial results and if there was to encourage share ownership at all levels of the Group.
The all-employee an error or miscalculation in determining the size of the award and or gross plans described above are offered on consistent terms to all employees misconduct.
The provisions enable the Committee to reduce future annual in the geographies where the plans operate: and bonus payments, reduce the number of shares under any form of share award, and or require the individual to make a payment to the Company eligibility for and provision of benefits and allowances varies by level and on terms deemed to be fair and reasonable by the Committee.
For senior managers, it is standard to receive a company car allowance.
Pension contributions below the Board are set at a lower rate, and can take the form of a cash allowance.
72 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy Service contracts Other executive director remuneration policies Appointments to the Board From September 2013 Base salary will be set taking into account factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
The Committee may determine that Notice period 12 months notice by either party an initial positioning below market is appropriate and in those circumstances, Payment in lieu As determined by the Committee, but restricted to salary, realign base salary in the years following appointment, which may result in an of notice benefits and pension.
Directors have a duty to mitigate exceptional rate of increase in the short-term.
Any reliance on this principle will be noted at the time of appointment.
The theoretical maximum variable Prior to September 2013 Roy Twite pay opportunity that can be awarded in one year will be up to 200% in annual bonus and up to 400% in an IIP award.
Notice period 12 months notice by either party Payment in lieu At the Committees discretion As part of the appointments policy the Committee may also: of notice continue with the provision of existing legacy remuneration components relating to pension, benefits and allowances for internal appointments: provide benefits, allowances and or payments related to relocation: and or make a long-term incentive award on appointment, outside of the annual cycle, under the existing shareholder approved share plan to provide an immediate interest in company performance.
The Committee will determine the level of any award, performance conditions and time horizon informed by the business circumstances at the time.
The maximum value of such an award will be 400% of salary and will only be used in exceptional circumstances e. g. upon recruitment.
The Committee may consider buyingout incentive awards, up to an equivalent value, that an individual forfeits in accepting the appointment.
To achieve this, the Committee will use the shareholder approved plan.
When making their decision, the Committee will be informed by the vehicles, time horizons, value and performance targets associated with any forfeited awards.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms summarised in the service contract policy see adjacent table.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 73 Termination and loss of office The primary principle underpinning the determination of any payments on loss of office is that payments for failure will not be made.
Service contracts and plan rules have been drafted in such a way that the Committee has the necessary powers to ensure this.
On departure, the Committee will take into account factors including the reason for the executive leaving, performance during the time served in the year and contractual obligations when approving any payments.
When an executive is terminated for cause there is no entitlement to salary, pension, benefits or an annual bonus and unvested share awards lapse.
The following table provides a summary of the treatment of each component of pay applicable for the current executive directors.
It should be noted that the Committee applies judgement in determining whether an individual is classed as a good leaver or otherwise under the share plans and is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives.
Agreed departure can include death, ill health, redundancy or retirement.
Payment Agreed departure Differences in a change in control situation Salary, pension The Committee may make payment in lieu of notice.
and benefits Annual bonus Individuals can be considered for a bonus: factors such as time Performance to the date of the event taking place will be considered in served during the performance period and performance can be determining whether any bonus should be payable, subject to the overall taken into account.
maximum applicable to the relevant individual.
For directors appointed prior to September 2013, there remains a bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken place within the 24 months prior to termination.
In this scenario, the director is entitled to bonus, or compensation in lieu of bonus, in respect of the relevant calendar year.
IIP Performance measured at the end of the performance period, Similar to agreed departure with the following differences: performance or at the date of cessation of employment.
A reduction in the exercise period for vested but unexercised awards.
share awards Pro-rating for time elapsed at cessation of employment will be and legacy Performance and time elapsed will be taken into account, but the considered by the Committee.
Performance Committee may enable awards to vest in full.
Share Plan The Committee can reduce or increase the exercise period for In certain situations as defined in the plan rules rollover awards of PSP unvested and vested but unexercised awards legacy PSP only.
a broadly equivalent nature can be offered.
Vested awards which are subject to a holding period will not normally be forfeited on a termination and the holding period will continue to apply to such awards although the Committee may release awards early from the holding period in appropriate cases.
If the reason for termination is misconduct, vested awards which are subject to a holding period may be forfeited in whole or in part.
Other The Committee may approve other limited payments which may Similar to agreed departure.
include legal fees connected to the departure, untaken holiday, out-placement and repatriation.
74 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy Considerations taken into account when setting our Chairman and non-executive directors directors remuneration policy Letters of appointment Employment conditions at IMI The letters of appointment set out key duties, including appropriate time When setting the salaries for executive directors the Committee takes into commitments, provisions for induction and familiarisation with the businesses account a number of factors as noted in the future policy table on pages and wider senior management team and require approval for other 69 to 70 and these include the broader employment conditions within IMI.
directorships and potential conflicts of interest.
More specifically: There are no provisions for the Company to give notice, but the Chairman is the Committee reviews budgeted salary increases across the Group on required to give three months notice to the Company and non-executives one a country-by-country basis when assessing the appropriateness of any month.
Subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting, the initial increases for the executive directors: and period to first renewal is three years.
After six years, renewal is considered on an annual basis.
in making decisions the Committee also takes account of the internal relativities against the reference group and within the wider leadership The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Annual General group and general employee population.
Meeting and the Companys registered office.
Details of the dates and unexpired terms are included in the Corporate Governance report on page 55.
Details of these comparison metrics will be included every year in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Appointments to the board Any contractual terms will be consistent with those currently adopted for Shareholder views existing non-executive directors updated as necessary for legal reasons and The Committee has a standard annual agenda item whereby the feedback to reflect best practice.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not from shareholders and investor advisory bodies is presented and discussed eligible to receive any variable pay.
On appointment, fees for non-executive following the Annual General Meeting.
The feedback that the Committee directors will be consistent with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
receives informs discussions for the formulation of future policy and If necessary, to secure the appointment of a new Chairman who is not based subsequent remuneration decisions.
A formal shareholder consultation in the UK, payments relating to relocation and or housing may be provided.
process was undertaken in the Autumn of 2017 to gather investor feedback on the proposed remuneration policy as set out herein.
Shareholders were Chairman and non-executive directors generally supportive of the proposals and their feedback has been taken The table over the page summarises the policy with respect to the into account during the development of the new remuneration policy remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors.
No component set out here.
of remuneration is linked to performance, there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payments and there are no provisions for the Company to pay compensation on early termination.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 75 Future policy table Chairman and non-executive directors Component Purpose Operation Annual Opportunity Base Fees To attract and retain high-calibre individuals Fees are reviewed annually and can be paid As of 1 January 2017, the Chairmans by offering market-competitive fees, in cash and or shares.
Fees can commensurate to the time commitment be paid in a combination of cash and or Benchmarked against companies of a similar and experience that is required.
At 31 December 2017 base fees for the When setting fees, factors considered include non-executive directors were 62,424 the level of increase for employees more paid in cash.
generally, market data, business performance, external economic factors, the skills required, The fees were reviewed at the end of time requirements and cost.
2017 and increased by 2.6% with effect 1 January 2018.
In respect of the Chairman, IMI also considers the individuals profile and experience.
Additional To reflect the additional time required Fees are reviewed annually and can be Fee levels in place at 31 December 2017: Fees when an individual chairs a committee, paid in cash and or shares.
Committee Chairman: 15,606 is appointed as senior independent The Chairman is not eligible to receive director, or is otherwise required to Senior independent director: 10,404 additional fees for his chairmanship of assume additional duties.
The above fees were reviewed at the end of 2017 and increased by 2.6% with effect Fees are benchmarked where appropriate 1 January 2018. and set in a manner consistent with base fees see above.
Benefits To reimburse reasonable business expenses.
Reimbursement in cash on production All reasonable travel and other expenses of receipts or other proof of payment of incurred by the Chairman and non-executive business expense.
directors in carrying out their duties together with any tax arising on such benefits, are reimbursed where the Company considers it fair and reasonable to do so.
Typically these might include business travel, meals and entertainment, and are provided in the form of an allowance or reimbursement.
76 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee the Committee presents the Annual Remuneration Report, which will be put to shareholders for an advisory non-binding vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 May 2018.
The report includes details of the Committee, the pay received during the year in accordance with our current remuneration policy approved on 7 May 2015 and comparative internal and external data.
The Committee A summary of the Committees activities during 2017 Composition The members of the Committee throughout the year were Bob Stack Chair The Committee had three formal meetings during the year: attendance can until his sad death on 7 December 2017, Carl-Peter Forster and Birgit be viewed in the table below.
The principal agenda items were as follows: Nrgaard Chair from 11 December 2017.
In accordance with the 2016 UK a review of IMIs executive remuneration practices and subsequent Corporate Governance Code, all of the non-executive directors were regarded preparation of the proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy to be by the Board as independent.
presented for shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting in May 2018: Responsibility The Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards for the a review of total compensation packages of the executive directors and executive directors and, in his absence, the Chairman.
The Committee also the most senior management of the Group to ensure alignment with reviews the remuneration packages of those at the next most senior level IMIs strategic growth plan: of management and has considered the levels of pay across the Group.
approval of achievements and outcomes under the incentive plans: A copy of the Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, is included in the IMI Corporate Governance Framework and available in consideration of the fees for the Chairman: the Corporate Governance section of the IMI website.
setting the framework and target levels for the 2017 incentive cycle including review of the performance targets attaching to the 2018 Internal advisers to the Committee long-term incentive plan awards: During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, regarding the packages of the other executive directors and senior managers.
It also approval of the granting of share awards to executive directors and certain received support from the Finance Director, the Group Human Resources other levels of management including a review of the Total Shareholder Director, the Head of Group Reward and the Company Secretary, who is Return comparator group to ensure it remains appropriate: also secretary to the Committee.
None of these individuals were involved a review of IMIs gender pay gap results for the year ended 5 April 2017: in determining their own remuneration.
a review of the UK corporate governance environment relative to External advisers to the Committee remuneration: Independent remuneration consultant, Willis Towers Watson, is formally a review of the engagement of the independent remuneration consultants appointed by the Committee and provided advice on executive directors to the Committee: and remuneration to the Committee in 2017.
The Committee noted that the firm are actuaries and administrators for the IMI Pension Fund.
The Committee is a review of the Committees own performance, constitution and terms of comfortable that these activities do not represent a conflict of interest and that reference, including an externally facilitated evaluation with Egon Zehnder objective and independent advice continues to be received by the Committee which was extremely positive.
from the dedicated team servicing it at Willis Towers Watson.
Attendance During 2017, Willis Towers Watson has also supported management on some broader reward and human resource matters.
The fees charged by Director Remuneration Committee % attended where meetings eligible Willis Towers Watson in respect of advice and services to the Committee R J Stack 2 100 totalled 141,725 in 2017.
Willis Towers Watson are signatories to the C P Forster 3 100 Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct in the UK.
B Nrgaard 3 100 Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 77 Annual General Meeting voting outcomes Voting outcome Votes for Votes against Votes withheld The following table summarises the details of votes cast for and against the Directors 96.55% 3.45% 3,352,149 2015 Directors Remuneration Policy, and the 2016 Annual Remuneration Remuneration Report resolution along with the number of votes withheld.
The Committee Policy 2015 was pleased with the level of support from shareholders and will continue Annual 95.52% 4.48% 2,201,997 Remuneration to consider the views of, and feedback from, shareholders when determining Report 2016 and reporting on remuneration arrangements.
Executive single figure table audited Annual Other items in the nature Fixed pay variable pay Long-term variable pay of remuneration 000 000 000 000 Subtotal Annual IMI Performance long-term AllDividend Taxable incentive Incentive Share variable employee equivalent Total 1 Director Base salary Pension benefits bonus Plan IIP Plan PSP pay share plans payments 000 Pages See page Page 78 Page 78 Page 78 78 to 80 Page 81 Page 82 2017 801 240 63 1,525 138 - 138 5 1 2,773 M W Selway 2016 785 236 57 781 - 38 38 4 - 1,901 2017 463 162 27 541 64 - 64 4 - 1,261 R M Twite 2016 454 159 27 311 - - - 4 - 955 2017 418 84 39 506 43 - 43 3 - 1,093 D J Shook 2016 410 82 45 252 - - - 4 - 793 1 An adjustment has been made to the 2016 reported taxable benefits for M W Selway, R M Twite and D J Shook.
This relates to non-cash benefits including the personal use of company drivers and company entertainment, plus associated tax costs.
R M Twite served on the Board of Halma plc during the year and received fees of 52,000 in respect of this appointment which he retained.
These figures have been calculated as follows: All-employee share plans: the value of fr ee shares at award and dividends under the Employee Share Ownership Plan in the relevant Base salary: the actual salary receivable for the year.
financial year and the intrinsic value of Save As You Earn share options on the date of grant in the relevant Pension: the cash allowance paid in lieu of pension.
financial year applying a 10% discount as permitted Taxable benefits: the gr oss value of all taxable benefits or benefits under the Save As You Earn Share Plan.
that would be taxable for a person tax resident in Dividend equivalent for the IIP an additional number of shares the UK received in the year.
payments: proportional to the dividends paid between the date Annual incentive bonus: the value of the annual incentive payable for of the award and the date of vesting are delivered on performance in respect of the relevant financial year the vesting date no further dividends are accrued half of this is automatically delivered in the form of after the vesting date.
This applies to both the deferred bonus share awards when the executive performance share awards and deferred bonus does not meet the share ownership requirement.
share awards under the IIP.
Under the legacy PSP IMI Incentive Plan IIP : the value on vesting of the nil cost options that wer e dividend equivalent payments are made on vested subject to performance over the three-year period but unexercised share awards, which take the form of ending on 31 December in the relevant financial nil-cost options.
Dividend equivalents, while notionally tracked by IMI from grant to exercise, are not paid year see share price assumptions below.
or transferred to the participant until the point of Performance on appointment 1 October 2013 M W Selway was exercise.
These have been included in the single Share Plan PSP : made an awar d under the PSP which vested on figure based on the number of dividend equivalents 30 September 2016.
Full details are included in the notionally accrued in the financial year, valued at the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
No other such price on the dividend payment date.
Any residual awards to directors are outstanding.
cash is rolled over and applied to the subsequent Share price assumptions: for shar es vesting in 2018, that related to dividend equivalent purchase.
performance in the three years to 31 December 2017, the average share price over the final three months of 2017 1,257.05 pence is used to estimate the value of shares on vesting.
78 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Executive remuneration received in respect of 2017 Benefits During the year the executive directors received a number of benefits.
These Base salary are summarised below and amounts less than 10,000 p. a. are combined.
Salaries effective January 2017 were agreed taking into account a range of factors including the prevailing economic conditions, the financial performance of the Group and salary increases for other employees.
The average increase M W Selway R M Twite D J Shook for employees was 2.6%, compared to 2.0% for the executive directors.
benefits 000 Company 20 20 17 17 14 14 Pension car and fuel Executive directors received a taxable cash allowance instead of pension allowance 000 benefits.
M W Selway receives a cash allowance of 30% of salary and D J Allowances and 29 21 - - 4 5 Shook receives a cash allowance of 20% of salary.
R M Twite receives a cash reimbursement allowance of 35% of salary as a legacy obligation from his appointment as 000 an executive director in 2007 which continues to be honoured.
Total 63 57 27 27 39 45 Pension benefits for past service 1 An adjustment has been made to the 2016 reported taxable benefits for M W Selway, R R M Twite was previously an active member of the defined benefit IMI Pension M Twite and D J Shook.
This relates to non-cash benefits including the personal use of Fund.
He opted out with effect from 1 February 2007, before he became an company drivers and company entertainment, plus associated tax costs.
executive director and as a result, he retains past pensionable service up to that date in the IMI 2014 Deferred Fund the Fund.
In addition to the above benefits and allowances that are included in the The key elements of the benefits in the Fund are summarised below: single figure table refer to table on page 77, the executive directors are also beneficiaries of company policies that have no taxable value, including the normal retirement age under the Fund is 62 and R M Twite may retire directors and officers insurance, death in service cover, travel insurance from employment with IMI any time after age 60 without actuarial discount.
on death after retirement, a dependants pension is provided equal to 50% of the members pension.
Annual incentive bonus The 2017 bonus plan focused on the financial performance of IMI during the should he die within the first five years of retirement, the dependants year, including Group adjusted profit before tax 40%, organic revenue growth pension is increased to 100% of the members pension for the remainder 20%, cash conversion 20% and strategic and personal objectives 20%.
There was a health and safety underpin to ensure bonuses are only paid out pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum pension, are when minimum standards are achieved.
increased each year in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5% in 2017 has been a year of good progress for IMI even against continued mixed respect of pension built up before 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect economic and market conditions: of pension built up after 1 January 2006.
Group adjusted profit before tax increased to 224.1m in 2017 from 208m in 2016, representing a 7.7% increase: Accrued pension Accrued pension in the Fund as at in the Fund as at Group revenue remained flat with revenue at 1,751m compared to 2016: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 000pa 000pa cash conversion remained strong at 92% in 2017, compared with 95% in 2016: R M Twite 71 70 the total dividend for the year increased by 2% compared to 2016: and good health and safety performance and delivery of measurable benefits from Lean and other health, safety and environmental initiatives.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 79 Summarised in the table below is the achievement against Group targets for M W Selway and D J Shook and a combination of Group profit before tax and Divisional targets for R M Twite.
Director Measure Maximum Performance Targets Actual Actual 1 opportunity % performance performance Threshold Target Maximum of salary as % of salary 2 M W Selway Group profit before tax 80% 151.6m 178.3m 196.1m 201.8m 80.0% 3 Group organic revenue growth 40% 1,428m 1,487m 1,546m 1,608m 40.0% 4 Group cash conversion 40% 69% 81% 89% 92% 40.0% Strategic personal objectives 40% See table on page 80 76% 30.4% 200% 190.4% 2 D J Shook Group profit before tax 50% 151.6m 178.3m 196.1m 201.8m 50.0% 3 Group organic revenue growth 25% 1,428m 1,487m 1,546m 1,608m 25.0% 4 Group cash conversion 25% 69% 81% 89% 92% 25.0% Strategic personal objectives 25% See table on page 80 84% 21.0% 125% 121.0% 2 R M Twite Group profit before tax 52.5% 151.6m 178.3m 196.1m 201.8m 52.5% 5 Divisional operating profit 22.5% 69.2m 81.4m 89.5m 75.0m 5.4% 6 Divisional organic revenue 22.5% 547.2m 572.4m 597.8m 596.0m 21.7% 4 Divisional cash conversion 22.5% 82% 97% 107% 90% 11.4% Strategic personal objectives 30.0% See table on page 80 86% 25.8% 150% 116.8% Actual performance is stated at the exchange rates used in the targets.
Adjusted Group profit before tax, as set out in Section 2.1.
1 page 99, adjusted for the impact of foreign exchange and disposals.
Growth of organic revenue, as set out in Section 2.1.
4 This is calculated as management operating cash flow divided by management operating profit.
5 Management divisional operating profit adjusted for the impact of foreign exchange and disposals.
6 This is as set out in Section 2.1.
80 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Strategic personal objectives As part of the strategic growth plan, the Committee sets each executive director a number of strategic personal objectives each year.
Performance against these objectives is assessed using a combination of quantitative and qualitative reference points to ensure a robust assessment process.
Mid-way through the year the executive is reviewed against their progress towards achieving the strategic personal objectives with a full review taking place by the Committee at the end of the performance period.
As well as performance against strategic personal objectives, the Committee considers the wider performance of the Group.
A summary of the strategic personal objectives set for 2017 and the performance commentary against them is provided in the table below.
Director Strategic personal objectives Performance commentary M W Selway Strengthen organisation: complete the final phases of restructuring Excellent progress achieved in the Lean and customer performance across the divisions: continue to improve operational performance metrics: and increased diversity through hires to senior roles.
through Lean: and actively sponsor and support the Groups diversity agenda.
Strategic growth: refine acquisition targets against clearly defined Acquisition of Bimba Manufacturing which supports our longand disciplined criteria whilst enhancing integration process readiness: term strategic agenda.
Good progress with defining and building build strong relationships with acquisition targets: continue to build relationships with key targets in all three divisions.
Organic growth strong relationships with investors: and ensure successful execution outstrips key peers in IMI Critical Engineering and IMI Precision of 2017 divisional growth strategies.
Deliver projects: strengthen IMI capabilities through enhanced IT New IT systems now live in all three divisions on time and on budget.
improvement plans: revised go-to-market strategies: new product New products and Value Engineering success totalled 139m in portfolios: and compelling customer solutions.
IMI Critical Engineering, new platform products in IMI Precision Engineering and further extensions to IMI Hydronic Engineering.
D J Shook Strengthen finance organisation: execute the plan to broaden the New Group Controller, employees and graduates added to expand finance organisations skill set and bench strength during the year: finance team opportunities.
Tax, Treasury and IT personnel are apply Lean principles to back office process: deliver robust training strengthened.
Procure to pay program launched in IMI Precision to new divisional audit teams: and deliver agreed outcomes for Engineering and results exceeded expectations.
Divisional audit Group Control, Treasury and Tax.
process fully developed and delivering benefits.
Deliver projects: strengthen IMI capabilities through enhanced IT ERP successfully rolled-out across all three divisions with security improvement plans e. g. ERP: disruptive technologies analysis: desktop firewalls and monitoring now in place across the whole of IMI.
collaboration standards: and security enhancement program.
R M Twite Strengthen division: deliver rationalisation projects in line with the All rationalisation delivered on-time and on-budget with 2017 savings approved business cases: further enhance team diversity when exceeding plan.
Numerous executive and management positions filled opportunities arise: improve Lean scores by the end of the year: with diverse range of individuals.
IMI Critical Engineering Lean scores collaborate with other Divisional Managing Directors to drive growth and achieve year-end target of 70% with customer facing KPIs progressing.
technology agenda: build strong relationships with acquisition targets: Technology reviews undertaken and future plans defined.
Work continues and reposition IMI Critical Engineering geographic footprint into higher with acquisition targets.
Geographic footprint realigned, 16% increase in growth markets.
employee population in Asia with equivalent reduction in Europe.
Deliver projects: continue to improve the efficiency of IMIs New Product New products delivered in 2017 and Value Engineering has secured Development process: deliver 2017 ERP milestones: and implement 139m in new orders.
Six new ERP installations on-time and onpolicy deployment through an Obeya room.
Obeya room fully deployed and delivering results.
Based on the performance described above, the annual incentive bonus outcomes for 2017 are set out below: 2017 maximum Total bonus Total bonus Achievement of share Bonus delivered Bonus delivered bonus opportunity awarded 000 awarded ownership guidelines in form of cash in form of share 1 % of salary % of salary at 31 Dec 2017 000 awards 000 M W Selway 200% 1,525 190.4% 37% 762.5 762.5 R M Twite 150% 541 116.8% 176% 541 - D J Shook 125% 506 121.0% 31% 253 253 1 Details of the share ownership guidelines for M W Selway, R M Twite and D J Shook can be found on page 81.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 81 Awards vesting under the IIP In May 2015, performance share awards were made to the executive directors under the IIP.
The vesting of the awards was subject to the achievement of three independent performance conditions as described below, measured over the three-years ending 31 December 2017.
The 2015 IIP award will vest at 6.55% in May 2018.
Initial award Value on date of Number of initial Additional dividend Total shares Value of shares on award 000 shares vesting equivalent shares vesting vesting 000 M W Selway 154,041 1,925 10,089 897 10,986 138 R M Twite 71,218 890 4,664 415 5,079 64 D J Shook 48,012 600 3,144 279 3,423 43 The three day average mid-market price on the date of award was 1,249.67 pence.
Owing to the vesting date occurring in May 2018, this award will attract an additional dividend, the value of which is unknown at this time and hence has been excluded from this table.
The price on vesting is unknown at this time and so the total number of shares vesting is valued at the average price over the last quarter of 2017 1,257.05 pence.
Adjusted profit before tax growth is a key measure for IMI as it gives an Return on capital employed ROCE indication of the strength of the Companys financial performance and shows the 25% of the award was subject to the achievement of ROCE.
This measure is amount available to reinvest into the business, and pay a return to shareholders defined as segmental operating profit as a percentage of the capital employed through dividends.
For growth of less than 2.5% per annum, no award under excluding goodwill and acquired intangibles during the financial year ended this element will vest.
25% of the award will vest for growth of 2.5% per annum 31 December 2017.
It compares the earnings of the Company with the capital rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for growth of 7.5% per annum.
ROCE was chosen as a measure as it represents how well the Company has used its investment made by shareholders and capital Over the three-year performance period ending 31 December 2017 IMI delivered from creditors to generate a profit.
Group profit before tax growth of -6.9%.
The resultant vesting outcome for this The portion of the share award that will vest related to ROCE depends on ROCE element of the award is nil.
in the final year of the performance period.
For ROCE of less than 40% no Deferred bonus share awards award under this element will vest.
25% of the award will vest for ROCE of 40%, In May 2015, deferred bonus share awards were also made under the IIP which rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for ROCE of 50%.
At the end of the vest in May 2018.
These are the form of share award used for mandatory bonus performance period return on capital employed was 40.16% resulting in this deferral into shares of up to 50% of annual bonus payable where the executive element vesting at 6.55%.
director is yet to reach their shareholding guideline.
Total Shareholder Return TSR 25% of the award was subject to the achievement of a relative TSR performance Share ownership guideline measure against a defined group of companies as disclosed in the Notice of It is a requirement of the remuneration policy that executive directors are subject Annual General Meeting 2015 adjusted during the performance period to take to guidelines which require them to build a shareholding in IMI worth at least account of merger and acquisition activity during the performance period in line 250% of salary for M W Selway, 150% of salary for D J Shook and 200% of with the Committees established guidelines.
TSR is defined as the movement salary for R M Twite.
The Policy permits the Committee discretion to determine in share price during the performance period, measured in local currency, with that 50% of any annual bonus earned is deferred into shares until the share adjustment to take account of changes in capital structure and dividends, which ownership guideline is achieved together with 50% of any vested share awards.
are assumed to be reinvested in shares on the ex-dividend date.
TSR was Each executive is then required to maintain this share ownership guideline chosen as a measure as it is an external, relative benchmark for performance subject to allowances for share price fluctuations and changes in base salary that aligns executives rewards with the creation of shareholder value.
When assessing compliance with this guideline the Committee The portion of the award that will vest related to TSR depends on where IMI reviews both the level of beneficial share ownership and vested but unexercised ranks in the comparator group.
For a TSR rank that is below median, no award share incentive awards on a post-tax basis.
Although M W Selway and D J Shook under this element will vest.
25% of the award will vest for median TSR, rising continue to make progress towards this guideline, and have a material interest on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile TSR.
At the end of the in the Companys shares, the Committee has determined that half of the annual three-year performance period, the Company ranked 20th out of 28 companies bonus payable to M W Selway and D J Shook as outlined above will be delivered in the peer group.
The resultant vesting outcome for this element of the award in the form of deferred bonus share awards which must be held for a period of is nil.
The Committee agreed that the outcome under the TSR measure was at least three years and until the share ownership guideline has been met.
reflective of the general underlying financial performance of the Company.
Further, the Committee has determined that half of the performance share awards made to M W Selway and D J Shook in May 2015 and due to vest in Group adjusted profit before tax growth May 2018 must also be retained until such time as the share ownership Half of each award was subject to the achievement of the Group adjusted profit requirement is met.
At the end of the year R M Twite significantly exceeded before tax growth measure.
This measure is defined as the profit before tax the share ownership guideline.
before adjusted items as shown in the audited accounts of the Group, adjusted to reflect changes in the Companys capital structure and any adjusted items, at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
82 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Share interests granted to executive directors during 2017 audited The following performance share award grants were approved and Grants made under the IIP made in 2017: Performance share award grants under the IIP were made on 9 March 2017 in the form of nil-cost options.
Awards are due to vest on 9 March 2020, subject to IIP shares Value on date of Award as a performance in three core areas aligned to our longer-term strategic priorities: 1 awarded award percentage of ROCE 25%, relative TSR 25% and Group adjusted profit before tax 50%.
000 salary M W Selway 156,323 2,003 250% The performance targets and vesting scale that apply to the 2017 IIP awards R M Twite 72,287 926 200% are as follows: D J Shook 48,946 627 150% ROCE Relative TSR Group Level of 1 adjusted vesting The three day average mid-market price on the date of award was 1,281.00 pence.
profit before tax growth The IIP is also used to grant deferred bonus awards exercisable after three Threshold 40% Median 2.5% 25% years to satisfy bonuses delivered in the form of shares.
Details of these Maximum 50% Upper quartile 7.5% 100% additional IIP awards made in 2017 are shown in the table on page 83 under the without performance conditions column.
No performance conditions Weighting 25% 25% 50% - apply to these awards.
Further details of the above performance targets can be found in the awards vesting under the IIP section on page 81.
For share awards granted in 2017 the TSR group was reduced from 27 to 18 peers to ensure complete alignment with our peers and comparison to companies with similar products, customers and global spread.
The 2017 peer group includes the following companies and these will be adjusted to take into account merger and acquisition activity during the performance period in line with the Committes guidelines: TSR comparator group companies 1.
Weir All-employee share plans Executive directors are eligible to participate in the all-employee share plans on the same terms as other eligible employees at IMI.
In 2017, M W Selway, R M Twite and D J Shook received free share awards under the All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
M W Selway received Save As You Earn SAYE awards in 2017 of 813 shares.
All Employee Share Ownership Plan SAYE Number of shares Value of free Number of options Value of SAYE Total value under the 1 2 awarded share award awarded options Dividends all-employee share 000 000 000 plans 000 2017 278 4 813 1 - 5 M W Selway 2016 363 4 - - - 4 2017 278 4 - - - 4 R M Twite 2016 363 4 - - - 4 2017 235 3 - - - 3 D J Shook 2016 242 2 2,129 2 - 4 1 In 2017 free shares were awarded at a share price of 1,292.00 pence 990.71 pence in 2016.
2 In 2017 SAYE awards were made at a 10% discount and the value shown is the intrinsic gain at the date of the grant, calculated in accordance with the single figure requirements on page 77.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 83 Payments to past directors audited It is the Committees intention to disclose any payments to past directors, including the vesting of share-based awards post departure on a basis consistent with the executive directors.
There were no payments to past directors during the year.
Dividend equivalent payments for vested but unexercised nil option awards will continue to be made to past directors under the terms of the original grant.
Chairmans and non-executive directors single figure table audited The following table summarises the total fees and benefits paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the financial years ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
2017 000 2016 000 Director Base fees Additional Taxable Total Base fees Additional Taxable Total 6 fees benefits fees benefits Lord Smith of Kelvin 312 - 5 317 306 - 5 311 4 C P Forster 62 1 3 66 61 - 3 64 5 B Nrgaard 62 1 8 71 61 - 5 66 1 R J Stack 62 26 3 91 61 26 10 97 3 2 R McInnes 47 12 5 64 61 16 7 84 I Sharp 62 4 2 68 61 - 2 63 1 Includes fees for being Chair of the Remuneration Committee and senior independent director.
2 Includes fees for being Chair of the Audit Committee.
3 Resigned as director effective September 2017.
4 Includes fee for senior independent director effective from 11 December 2017.
5 Includes fee for being Chair of the Remuneration Committee effective from 11 December 2017.
6 The table includes benefits for non-executive directors in 2016 that were not previously reported.
This includes travel and hotel expenses plus tax costs associated with board meetings held at IMI HQ.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The following table summarises the share interests of any director who served during the year as at 31 December 2017 or at the date of leaving from the Board.
During the period 31 December 2017 to 23 February 2018 there were no changes in the interests of any current director from those shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 9 January of 9 shares on behalf of each of M W Selway, R M Twite and D J Shook at 1,398.00 pence per share and 13 February 2018 of 10 shares on behalf of each of M W Selway, R M Twite and D J Shook at 1,249.00 pence per share.
2 Vesting dates of share awards are shown on page 81.
84 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Relative importance of spend on pay Historical performance and remuneration The following information is intended to provide additional context regarding In addition to considering executive remuneration in the context of internal the total remuneration for executive directors.
comparisons, the Committee reviews historical outcomes under the variable pay plans.
2017 2016 Change The graph below compares IMIs total shareholder return TSR to the m m FTSE100 and FTSE250 over the last nine years.
We compare performance Dividends 105.5 104.2 1% to the FTSE100 as IMI has been included in the index in the past and it is a Total employment costs for Group 578.7 566.6 2% position where IMI aspires to be.
TSR measures the returns that a company see Section 2.1.
3.1 on page 103 has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends source: DataStream, with data averaged In 2017, the total dividend for the year of 39.4 pence represented an increase over the final 30 days of each financial year.
As the graph below illustrates, of 2% over last years 38.7 pence.
IMIs absolute and relative TSR performance has been strong over the last nine years.
Relative percentage change in remuneration for Chief Executive Value of a hypothetical 100 investment The Committee actively considers any increases in base pay for the Chief 800 Executive relative to the broader IMI employee population.
However, benefits and bonus payments are not typically compared given they are driven by 700 a far broader range of factors, such as local practices, eligibility, individual 600 circumstances and role.
This comparison excludes our international workforce which we believe would not provide a true comparison given differing local market factors.
The following table summarises the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the last nine years, and the outcomes of short and long-term incentive plans as a % of maximum.
2 Represents remuneration for M W Selway who was appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2014.
Adjusted for revised taxable benefits figure for M W Selway see page 78.
Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 85 Application of the IMI Directors Remuneration Performance share awards under the IIP Policy in 2018 In accordance with the current and proposed new remuneration policy, the IIP will be operated as follows in 2018: Executive director fixed pay Salaries effective January 2018 were agreed taking into account a range 2018 awards are set at 250% of salary for M W Selway, 200% for of factors including the prevailing economic conditions, the financial R M Twite and 150% for D J Shook.
performance of the Group and salary increases for other employees.
Awards will vest subject to performance in three core areas aligned to The average increase for 2018 awarded to employees was 3.0%, compared our longer-term strategic priorities: ROCE 25%, relative TSR 25% and to 2.6% for the Chief Executive and Executive Director R M Twite.
Their base Group adjusted profit before tax growth 50%.
salaries were increased by 2.6% to 822,000 and 475,000 respectively.
The performance targets that will apply to the 2018 IIP awards are as follows: The Committee agreed to increase the base salary level for D J Shook, Finance Director by 5% to reflect the excellent progress made during his three year tenure with the Company and taking into account he was ROCE Relative Group Level of TSR adjusted vesting appointed on a base salary lower than his predecessor and his remuneration profit before when compared to Chief Financial Officers in similar size businesses.
tax growth The base salary for D J Shook for 2018 is 439,000.
Threshold 40% Median 2.5% 25% Other elements of fixed pay benefits and pension will remain unchanged, Maximum 50% Upper 7.5% 100% although pension allowances are a fixed percentage of salary.
quartile Weighting 25% 25% 50% - Incentive pay Annual bonus However, in line with the proposed new policy if approved at the Annual In accordance with the current and proposed new remuneration policy, General Meeting on 3 May 2018, awards to be made after that date to the annual bonus plan will be operated as follows in 2018: executive directors will be subject to a two year post-vesting holding period.
As in 2017, the 2018 maximum bonus opportunity is set at 200% of salary for M W Selway, 150% for R M Twite and 125% for D J Shook.
Service contracts The unexpired terms of the non-executive directors service contracts can As in 2017, the annual bonus for M W Selway and D J Shook will be be reviewed in the Boards Corporate Governance Report on page 55. subject to performance in Group adjusted profit before tax 40%, organic revenue growth 20%, cash conversion 20% and strategic and personal Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors objectives 20%.
Health and safety will serve as an underpin to ensure The Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration increased by bonuses are only paid out when minimum standards are achieved.
This is in line with the executive As in 2017, the annual bonus for R M Twite in 2018 will be subject directors and the wider employee workforce.
to performance in Group adjusted profit before tax 35%, IMI Critical Engineering operating profit 15%, IMI Critical Engineering organic Share ownership for the Chairman and non-executive directors revenue growth 15%, IMI Critical Engineering cash conversion 15% The Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged to hold some and strategic and personal objectives 20%.
shares in IMI within a reasonable period after their appointment.
As at The Committee has determined that the targets associated with the 31 December 2017, the Chairman and non-executive directors hold performance measures will be disclosed retrospectively on the same IMI shares as set out in the table on page 83. basis and to the same extent as for 2017 targets see annual bonus metrics table on page 79.
Birgit Nrgaard Chair of the Remuneration Committee for and on behalf of the Board 1 March 2018 86 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial Statements 88 Finance Directors introduction 90 Primary statements 99 Results for the year 110 Operating assets 146 Directors report 168 Five year summary Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 87 The production test rig in IMI Hydronic Engineerings factory in Dallas, USA.
