Remuneration report Paying for performance in a simple and transparent way Structure of the Remuneration report Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee pages 62 and 63 Remuneration at a glance pages 64 and 65 Remuneration governance pages 66 and 67 Remuneration principles page 68 Directors remuneration policy summary pages 69 to 75 Annual report on remuneration pages 76 to 90 As UCITS funds and funds subject to AIFMD represent a significant part of the Group, we have included the executive Directors as MRTs under these rules UCITS AIF MRTs.
Our remuneration philosophy remains unchanged, supporting our long-term approach by deferring a significant part of annual variable remuneration into fund and share awards.
This provides clear alignment with the long-term interests of clients and shareholders, alongside awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and requiring executives to acquire and maintain significant shareholdings in the Group.
We continue to operate the executive Directors bonuses in line with our shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy but to meet our regulatory obligations we made the following changes to how we implement the policy: Previous approach Performance-year 2017 The proportion of We have increased the proportion of executive Directors executive Directors bonuses deferred to bonuses that was approximately 60%, in line with the new Committee membership meeting attendance is on page 49 deferred was Directors remuneration policy approved approximately 50%.
Lord Howard of Penrith Robin Buchanan Chairman The upfront portion of We pay only half of the upfront portion of the bonus i. e. that the bonus in cash.
The other half will be Ian King Nichola Pease part that is not granted as a fund award, at the same deferred was paid in time as deferred bonus awards.
This We pay for performance in a simple and transparent way, clearly cash, in February upfront fund award cannot be exercised aligned to client and shareholder interests.
We believe this philosophy following the end of for six months from the date of grant.
It is a key driver of the Groups success over the long term.
This view is the financial year.
is subject to malus terms from the date shared by our shareholders, who overwhelmingly voted in favour of of grant to the date of exercise and then our Directors remuneration policy at our 2017 AGM, recognising the clawback terms for 12 months from important changes we had made to strengthen the alignment of exercise.
Unlike the deferred portion of executive pay to the financial performance of the Group and the any bonus, the upfront fund award is not interests of clients and shareholders.
normally at risk of forfeiture if the holder During 2017, we saw another year of strong investment performance leaves the Group.
for our clients, which has again translated into success for our The deferred portion We have extended the overall deferral shareholders.
2017 was a record year for our financial performance, of the bonus was split period for deferred fund awards by six with net income, profit and dividends at an all-time high.
The Board equally between fund months.
These awards will be available to approved a total compensation ratio of 43% 2016: 44%.
On an awards and share exercise in three equal instalments after underlying basis the total compensation ratio is unchanged year on awards, both of which 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years from the date of year, as there is a reduction of around one percentage point due to were released three grant.
The overall deferral period for higher levels of bonus deferral for some employees, as described years from the date of share awards will remain three years and below.
This benefit will largely unwind over the next two years.
these awards will be available to exercise kept the underlying total compensation ratio below our target range in three equal instalments after 1, 2 and 3 of 45% to 49%, as we remain mindful of ensuring compensation costs years from the grant date.
are appropriate, given the significant challenges our industry faces over the long term.
The Committee could We have adopted a broader description apply malus terms in of the circumstances in which malus and Regulatory changes the event of individual clawback terms could be applied, aligned I highlighted last year that we face continued regulatory uncertainty misconduct or a to the UCITS Directive and AIFMD that could affect our remuneration approach.
In 2017 we made material misstatement requirements, via a malus and clawback changes to our remuneration approach for employees deemed to be of the Groups results: policy.
These revised terms apply to all material risk takers MRTs under the UCITS Directive or AIFMD, clawback terms could deferred remuneration awards granted increasing bonus deferral levels to create further alignment with apply in the event of from March 2018 and are explained in clients and shareholders, and to meet the requirements of those individual misconduct.
62 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance We grant deferred bonuses and upfront fund awards for UCITS AIF The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have seen MRTs, including the executive Directors, under a new deferred increases in annual bonus awards of 18% and 12% respectively, remuneration plan, the Deferred Award Plan DAP.
The DAP was compared with a median bonus increase of 14% for employees who designed specifically for this new bonus structure for relevant MRTs.
worked in the Group for all of 2016 and 2017.
The higher year on year Other employees continue to be granted deferred bonuses under our increase for Peter Harrison in part reflects his only being Group Chief Equity Compensation Plan ECP.
The operation of deferred bonus Executive for part of the prior year, following his appointment to the awards granted under the DAP is substantively the same as awards role on 3 April 2016.
More information on the annual bonus awards for that could have been granted under the ECP, other than the the executive Directors is outlined on pages 81 to 83.
Philip differences described on the previous page, and is consistent with the Mallinckrodt was not eligible for an annual bonus for 2017, after he requirements of the Directors remuneration policy.
relinquished his executive responsibilities see page 85.
2017 performance and pay outcomes The LTIP performance conditions remain highly demanding and, in Profit before tax and exceptional items was up 24% to 800.3 million.
March 2018, we expect LTIP awards granted in 2014 to vest at 50%, The Board has recommended a 22% increase in the total dividend per based on net new business.
The earnings per share target will again share for the year.
not be met, despite EPS growth of 57% over this period see page 84.
Peter Harrison did not receive an LTIP award in 2014, as awards were Our approach to determine the annual bonus awards for the executive granted only to the executive Directors that year and he joined the Directors is consistent with that for the rest of our employees, taking Board after awards had been granted.
into account a balanced approach to growing the business profitably and sustainably, encouraging the longevity of client relationships, The Group Chief Executives pay is 35 times the employee mean while retaining and developing our talented people who are key to 2016: 33 times and 64 times the employee median 2016: 60 times, organisational stability and long-term success.
The year on year increase in these ratios reflects a range of factors.
In particular, this was Peter Harrisons first full year We strongly believe that formulaic pay can often drive the wrong as Group Chief Executive.
In addition, 2017 has seen significant behaviours and the wrong long-term outcomes for clients and investment to support future growth, and the resulting recruitment shareholders.
We look to reward appropriately all employees who was skewed towards employees paid less than the firm-wide average.
adhere to the firms values excellence, innovation, teamwork, passion Diversity and gender pay gap and integrity and who demonstrate the behaviours we expect in a client-centric culture.
Our discretionary approach also ensures we can We are committed to employee diversity.
This year we have continued working to increase the representation of women in senior reflect performance on management of risks and adherence to compliance controls in pay outcomes page 89. management roles, having been one of the first signatories of the Women in Finance Charter in the UK.
We achieved our initial target of For 2017, we have awarded Peter Harrison, our Group Chief Executive, 30% women within senior management during the first quarter of a bonus of 6.5 million, reflecting the exceptional strength of the 2017, though at year end the figure had fallen back to 29% as a result Groups performance this year across both financial and non-financial of minor restructurings within the firm.
We are now targeting 33% by metrics.
Ensuring we deliver for our clients is one of the most the end of 2019.
We have published more information on diversity and important components of this and client investment performance is a gender pay in a separate report on our website, at schroders.
com key measure of success.
We remain significantly ahead of target, with inclusion.
74% of assets outperforming their stated comparator over three years Our analysis of comparable roles continues to show that we reward and 84% over five years.
More information on this is set out in the men and women fairly for similar work.
Our gender pay gap reflects business and financial review on pages 20 to 27.
Peter has focused on the lower representation of women at senior levels within the our strategic priorities see pages 14 and 15 and delivered a range of organisation.
Our work to promote senior management diversity is important initiatives that will reinforce our future growth potential, reflected in an improvement in our gender pay gap, which we have particularly around product strategy, regional growth and building on disclosed for the second year page 78.
The gap for median salaries our existing capabilities in Private Assets and Alternatives.
and cash allowances narrowed to 31% 2016: 33%, while the gap for Management team stability has been good and Peters attention to the mean narrowed to 30% 2016: 31%.
The gap for the median bonus succession planning is building strength and depth for the future.
narrowed to 50% 2016: 59% and the gap for the mean bonus narrowed to 49% 2016: 66%.
As part of the year end compensation We have awarded Richard Keers, our Chief Financial Officer, a bonus of review, we consider bonus outcomes through both a gender and 2.75 million, reflecting his significant contribution to the Groups ethnicity lens to ensure that recommendations are appropriate and performance during 2017 and delivery against his personal objectives.
help identify any unconscious bias.
There remains more to do and we His leadership of the Global Operations, Risk and Capital Committees are actively identifying additional steps to address this.
and contribution on cost control and efficiency were strong.
He drove important revenue reporting enhancements and improvements in Lord Howard of Penrith management reporting via digital dashboards.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Remuneration report continued Remuneration at a glance 1.
How we performed The charts below provide an overview of Schroders performance.
Pages 14 and 15 provide information on our strategy for 2017 and beyond and pages 16 and 17 give more information on our key performance indicators.
Pages 82 to 84 outline the basis for determining annual bonus awards for the executive Directors and the expected vesting of LTIP awards granted in March 2014.
Performance of Schroders shares against the FTSE-100 Index and the relative spend on pay The left-hand chart below compares the performance of Schroders shares with that of the FTSE-100 over nine years to 31 December 2017.
Overthis period the index has returned 143%, compared to a 425% return on Schroders ordinary shares.
The right-hand chart shows how net income has been utilised over the same period, comparing remuneration costs before exceptional items and shareholder distributions to taxes arising and earnings retained.
Distributions to shareholders in respect of 2017 formed a slightly larger proportion of the total than for 2016.
Net income 2017, 2,069 million up 154% since 2009 Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 millions 600 2,500 500 2,000 22% 400 1,500 17% 300 19% 1,000 200 12% 15% 500 100 15% 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FTSE-100 Index Schroders ordinary shares Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Schroders non-voting ordinary shares Other operating expenses Corporate tax and social security Retained earnings Interim and final dividend Other key factors in assessing the performance of the Group see pages 82 to 83 The following key performance indicators were amongst those that formed part of the Committees determination of the executive Directors pay.
Client investment Net new business bn Assets under management performance over 3 years % and administration bn 2016 2016 2016 74 1.1 395.3 2017 2017 2017 74 9.6 447.0 Target: positive NNB Target: AUMA growth in excess of market growth Target 60% Retention of key talent % Ratio of total costs Basic earnings per share p to net income % 2016 2016 2016 95 64 186.3 2017 2017 2017 94 61 226.9 Target 90% Target 65% Target: grow consistently recognising potential impact of market volatility Before exceptional items.
Determining the vesting of LTIP awards granted in March 2014 see page 84 LTIP awards granted in March 2014 are expected to vest on 1 March 2018, based on two metrics as set out below.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Vesting % of award 20% 20% Growth in composite index 54.4% Earnings per share EPS Target Schroders EPS growth 57.4% range 0% bn 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Target Net new range business NNB Schroders cumulative NNB 48.5bn 50% Total expected to vest in relation to 2014 to 2017 performance 50% Criteria met Partially met Not met 64 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 2.
Executive Directors remuneration and shareholdings The left-hand chart below compares the single total remuneration figures for 2017 and 2016 for each executive Director role.
The right-hand chart compares each executive Directors shareholdings with that required under the personal shareholding policy.
Value of shareholding Executive Director Single total remuneration gure 000 vs shareholding policy % of salary 1 Group Chief Executive 2016 8% 45% 21% 21% 5% 6,311 Policy 500 Peter Harrison 2017 7,059 Actual 847 8% 19% 19% 27% 27% Chief Financial Ocer 2016 Policy 15% 43% 21% 21% 2,878 300 Richard Keers 2017 Actual 13% 16% 16% 23% 23% 9% 3,501 541 2 Fixed pay Upfront bonus cash Upfront bonus fund award Deferred bonus fund award Deferred bonus share award LTIP vesting 1.
Peter Harrison was appointed Group Chief Executive on 3 April 2016, prior to which he was an executive Director as Head of Investment.
The bar representing 2016 remuneration in the left-hand chart above reects his full-year remuneration in respect of 2016.
LTIP vesting represents the estimated value at vesting from awards granted under the LTIP on 10 March 2014, which are expected to vest on 1 March 2018 based onperformance against the performance conditions over the four financial years ended 31 December 2017.
For more information on the single total remuneration figures see pages 79 to 84 and on the personal shareholding policy see page 87.
Executive Directors remuneration policy overview Components of executive Directors remuneration: Component Policy overview Fixed pay Base salary Group Chief Executive: 500,000 Other executive Directors: 375,000 These rates were last increased on 1 March 2014.
Benefits and allowances Executive Directors receive benefits on the same basis as other UK employees.
Retirement benefits Executive Directors may participate in UK pension arrangements or receive cash in lieu of pension on the same basis asother employees, 16% of base salary up to a maximum pensionable salary of 250,000, plus a match on employee contributions up to a further 2% of pensionable salary.
Upfront Annual bonus awards incentivise the achievement of business priorities for the financial year, to align pay with performance annual bonus and promote the long-term success of the Company.
As the executive Directors are deemed to be MRTs under the UCITS award Directive and AIFMD, half of the upfront portion of any annual bonus award i. e. that part that is not deferred is paid in cash and half granted as an upfront fund award, which cannot be exercised for six months from the date of grant.
Deferred Approximately 60% of any annual bonus award is deferred, to align Directors interests with those of clients and annual bonus shareholders.
The deferred portion is split equally intofund awards, available to exercise in equal instalments after 1.5, 2.5 award and 3.5 years, and share awards, available to exercise in equal instalments after 1, 2 and 3 years.
LTIP LTIP awards incentivise long-term performance and the achievement of strategic priorities to ensure the sustainable growth of the Group.
The performance hurdles are highly demanding, based on earnings per share and net new business performance over a four-year period.
The Committee may reduce the extent to which awards vest if the Group has suffered a material failure of risk management or if the Committee considers that the outcome from the performance conditions does not appropriately reflect underlying performance.
A 12-month holding period applies from the date of vesting for LTIP awards granted from 2018, during which they cannot be exercised and malus conditions continue to apply.
Malus and Malus terms allow awards to be reduced or lapsed: clawback terms require amounts to be repaid.
Under the Groups malus clawback and clawback policy, these terms can be used to risk-adjust deferred remuneration awards in a range of circumstances, policy asdescribed on page 71.
Personal To align their interests with those of shareholders, the executive Directors are required to acquire and retain a holding shareholding ofSchroders shares or rights to shares equivalent to 300% of base salary, or 500% of base salary for the Group Chief policy Executive.
Onstepping down as an executive Director, half that level of shareholding must be maintained for two years.
For more information on the policy see pages 69 to 75 and for more information on implementation of the policy during 2018 see page 90.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Remuneration report continued Remuneration governance Responsibilities of the Committee The responsibilities of the Committee include: Key areas of focus during the year Reviewing the Groups remuneration strategy and recommending The table below summarises the key issues that the the Directors remuneration policy to the Board Committee considered at each of its meetings during 2017.
Determining the remuneration of executive Directors within the Remuneration packages for new hires or severance arrangements for roles subject to the Committees oversight policy approved by shareholders were reviewed ateach meeting asrequired.
In addition, the Determining the remuneration of the Group Company Secretary, Board as a whole reviewed the remuneration strategy in July reviewing the remuneration of the Heads of Compliance, Risk, see page 51.
Internal Audit and the General Counsel, monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for other senior employees and material Meeting risk takers and overseeing remuneration more broadly across the date Key issues considered Group Recommending to the Board the annual spend on fixed and variable January Compensation review 2016 remuneration Remuneration disclosures Reviewing the design and operation of share-based remuneration Material risk taker populations and other deferred remuneration plans Internal audit of remuneration compliance Overseeing any major change in the employee benefits structure Forecast vesting of LTIP awards granted throughout the Group in 2013 Reviewing the remuneration disclosures required and ensuring Performance conditions for LTIP awards compliance with those requirements to be granted in 2017 Receiving and considering feedback from shareholders and Corporate governance developments representative shareholder bodies Minor changes to deferred compensation plan rules The Committees terms of reference are available on our website.
February Compensation review 2016 All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Biographical details and the experience of Committee May Shareholder and voting agency feedback members are set out on pages 44 and 45. on remuneration Review of advisers to the Committee At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Group Chairman and Alignment of remuneration to client and Group Chief Executive attended five meetings, the Chief Financial shareholder interests Officer attended four meetings and Bruno Schroder attended two.
No Annual performance objectives of the Director or employee participates in decisions determining his or her Group Chief Executive own remuneration.
Remuneration disclosures The Group Head of Risk, the General Counsel and the Global Head of Remuneration arrangements Compliance also advised the Committee on matters that could inparticular business areas influence remuneration decisions and attended meetings if required.
Regulatory developments The Global Head of Equities attended one meeting to advise the Committee on remuneration arrangements within her area.
PwC July Directors remuneration policy attended one meeting to advise the Committee on market practice Board Remuneration philosophy for other and conditions for directors remuneration and compliance with meeting employees remuneration regulations.
The Global Head of Human Resources and UCITS Directive and AIFMD the Head of Compensation and Benefits attended meetings to provide remuneration structure advice and support the Committee with secretarial services.
October UCITS Directive and AIFMD remuneration structure Approval of Equity Incentive Plan awards Compensation review 2017 Gender pay gap Remuneration disclosures Regulatory developments December Material risk taker population UCITS Directive and AIFMD remuneration structure Compensation review 2017 Sustainability of earnings Risk, legal and compliance matters Forecast vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2014 Remuneration benchmarking for key leadership roles Regulatory developments 66 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Shareholder voting on remuneration At the 2017 AGM, shareholders approved the Directors remuneration policy, which applies for three years from the date of approval.
Shareholders also approved the Remuneration report that was published in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The results of these votes are shown below: To approve the Directors remuneration policy To approve the remuneration report at the 2017 AGM at the 2017 AGM 6% 5% 94% 95% 2017 AGM voting 2017 AGM voting Votes for 181,963,125 Votes for 184,444,561 Votes against 12,623,229 Votes against 10,235,976 Votes withheld 461,454 Votes withheld 367,271 To approve the relevant Directors remuneration policy Votes for Votes against To approve the relevant remuneration report Votes for Votes against 2014 AGM 92% 8% 2014 AGM 94% 6% 2017 AGM 94% 6% 2015 AGM 97% 3% 2016 AGM 96% 4% 2017 AGM 95% 5% External advisers The Committee appointed or received advice from the advisers shown in the table below.
Advisers were selected on the recommendation of the Global Head of Human Resources and the Head of Compensation and Benefits.
Other services Fees paid for services Services provided to provided to the tothe Committee Appointed by theCommittee Group during 2017 000 McLagan Aon The Committee Information on market conditions and Information on market 15 Limited competitive rates of pay.
conditions and McLagan competitive rates of pay.
PwC The Company The Committee did not independently Advice to management 30 engage PwC to provide any services.
on market practice and However, advice to management on conditions for directors market practice and conditions for remuneration and on directors remuneration and compliance compliance with with remuneration regulations was remuneration discussed at Committee meetings.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from McLagan was Evaluating the performance of the Committee independent and objective as it was factual and not judgemental.
The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was McLagan is part of Aon plc, which also provides advice and services to undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process by the Company in relation to pension benefit valuations and pension Independent Board Evaluation.
The findings relating to the Committee actuarial advice.
McLagans fees were charged on the basis of a fixed were discussed with the Chairman.
The Board felt the Committee had fee for the preparation of reports setting out the delivered a Directors remuneration policy review with full shareholder information requested.
The opportunity for the Board to discuss remuneration strategy was seen as a major positive.
In terms of areas for possible PwC is the Groups external auditor.
Any non-audit services provided improvement, the burden of paperwork on the Committee had by PwC are subject to review in accordance with arrangements for the increased over the past year, which could lead to a level of detail which provision of such services, as described in the Audit and Risk was too granular.
The Committee did not independently engage PwC to provide any services but is satisfied that the advice received from PwC was independent and objective as it was factual and not judgemental.
PwCs fees for services provided to the Company were charged on the basis of time spent.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Remuneration report continued Remuneration principles The overall remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term successoftheGroup.
The Committee has developed the remuneration policy with the following principles in mind: Aligned with A significant proportion of higher-earning employees and material risk takers variable remuneration is clients granted as fund awards, which are notional investments in funds managed by the Group, thereby aligning the interests of employees and clients.
This includes the executive Directors, other members of the GMC and other key employees such as senior fund managers.
Aligned with A significant proportion of variable remuneration is granted in the form of deferred awards over shareholders Schroders shares, thereby aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
Executive Directors and other members of the GMC are required, over time, to acquire and retain a significant holding of Schroders shares or rights to shares.
On stepping down, the executive Directors are required to maintain a level of shareholding for two years.
Aligned with The total spend on remuneration is managed as a percentage of net income, the total compensation financial ratio.
This ratio is determined by the Committee and recommended to the Board.
This approach aligns performance remuneration with financial performance.
Competitive Employees receive a competitive remuneration package, which is reviewed annually and benchmarked by reference to the external market.
This allows us to attract and retain the best talent, who know that good performance will be rewarded.
Deferred variable remuneration does not give rise to any immediate entitlement.
Awards normally Designed to encourage require the participant to be employed continuously by the Group until at least the third anniversary of retention grant in order to vest in full.
68 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Directors remuneration policysummary The Directors remuneration policy is summarised on pages 69 to 75.
Shareholders approved the policy at the 2017 AGM on 27 April 2017 and itisexpected to apply for three years from that date.
We are required to bring the policy for shareholder approval no later than the 2020 AGM.
The full Directors remuneration policy can be found on pages 75 to 81 of our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, which is available on our website at schroders.
Summary of the remuneration policy for the executive Directors The table below summarises how the remuneration policy is implemented for the key components of remuneration for the executive Directors.
The remuneration policy for non-executive Directors is summarised on page 74.
Component, purpose andlinkto strategy Operation Base salary Base salary is paid in cash via payroll.
We review base salaries annually but for the executive Directors and other higher-paid employees we adjust base salaries infrequently.
We last increased the level of To help recruit, reward and base salary for the executive Directors on 1 March 2014. retain talent.
Reflects a market competitive rate of We aim to pay executive Directors base salaries that are competitive with other large international pay taking account of the asset management firms.
As a result, it is likely that salaries will be relatively low when compared to employees role and other listed financial services firms and FTSE-100 companies.
responsibilities, skills and experience, and ongoing contribution.
Benefits and allowances Executive Directors receive the same benefits in kind as other UK employees.
A cash allowance is used to fund benefit options under a flexible benefits plan.
Available benefits include private healthcare, life To help recruit, reward and assurance, accidental death, injury or sickness insurances and tax-efficient charitable donations which retain talent.
Reflects local are matched by the Company see page 30. market practice and aims tosupport employee health Directors are also covered by the Groups Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
Directors may also benefit from private use of a car and driver.
SIP Like other employees in the UK, executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Participating employees use their own funds to acquire Schroders shares partnership To help increase the number shares and in return receive awards of shares from Schroders matching shares of up to 100 per of employee shareholders month based on the market value of the shares.
The value of any SIP matching shares awarded to the and increase their executive Directors during the year is included within the value reported for benefits and allowances.
Provides To qualify for maximum tax benefits these shares must be left in the SIP for five years.
Participants are potential UK tax benefits.
free to withdraw their partnership shares at any time but forfeit the corresponding matching shares if they do so or cease to be in employment within one year of acquiring the relevant partnership shares, except in certain circumstances as set out in the rules of the SIP.
79% of UK employees participated in the SIP as at 31 December 2017 2016: 77%.
Retirement benefits Executive Directors may participate in pension arrangements, or receive cash in lieu of pension, on the same basis as other UK employees.
Base salary is the only pensionable component of remuneration, To help recruit, reward and up to a maximum pensionable salary of 250,000.
The Groups contributions are currently 16% of retain talent.
Reflects local pensionable salary, plus a contribution to match employee contributions up to a further 2% of market practice and enables pensionable salary.
Employees have flexibility and choice over the balance between employer pension and encourages provision contributions and cash in lieu, with options to take as cash some or all of the amount the Company for retirement.
would otherwise contribute to the pension plan.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Fixed pay Remuneration report continued Component, purpose andlinkto strategy Operation Annual bonus award Executive Directors are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus award.
Awards in respect of each financial year are discretionary and non-pensionable.
To motivate employees to achieve financial, nonThe Committee determines the amount, if any, that is awarded based on a combination of financial financial and personal and non-financial factors, including individual performance objectives, that may vary from year to year objectives for the financial to ensure alignment with the Groups strategic goals.
The Committee assesses the overall year, which are consistent performance of the business and of each executive Director and applies its judgement to determine with the Groups strategy.
an award, taking account of the recommendation of the Chairman in respect of the Group Chief Helps reward talent for their Executive and of the Group Chief Executive in respect of other executive Directors.
For on the factors considered by the Committee in determining the annual bonus awards for executive executive Directors, awards Directors in respect of performance in 2017 can be found on pages 82 and 83. reflect annual performance Initially we defer 60% of any annual bonus awarded to the executive Directors.
Where an LTIP award along with performance over has been granted during the year, we reduce the deferral in respect of that year by 25% of the grant a longer timeframe for some value of the LTIP award.
Of the upfront portion i. e. that part that is not deferred, we pay 50% in cash metrics.
in February following the end of the financial year and grant the other 50% as an upfront fund award under the DAP.
We grant the deferred portion as a combination of fund and share awards, also under the DAP.
In 2017, we granted deferrals equally between fund and share awards, subject to a minimum fund award of 10,000.
These DAP awards are explained below.
This structure for the executive Directors annual bonus awards is the same as for other UCITS AIF MRTs, save that the executive Directors deferral is fixed at 60% and is then subject to the LTIP adjustment, while for most other MRTs the proportion of bonus deferred varies from 40% to 60%.
DAP We grant DAP awards to the executive Directors on the same basis as those granted to other UCITS AIF MRTs.
Fund awards are conditional rights to receive a cash sum based on the value of a notional The Groups main deferral investment in a range of Schroders funds.
Share awards are conditional rights to acquire shares in the arrangement for annual Company at nil cost.
Additional shares equivalent to dividends accrue until the award is exercised.
bonus awards to employees deemed to be material risk An upfront fund award cannot be exercised for six months from the date of grant.
It is not normally takers under the UCITS subject to forfeiture if the holder leaves the Group but is subject to malus terms from the date of Directive or AIFMD.
Aligns grant to the date of settlement and then clawback terms for 12 months from the date of settlement.
the interests of employees Deferred fund awards normally require the participant to be employed continuously by the Group with those of clients and until 3.5 years from grant to vest in full.
These awards are available to exercise in three equal shareholders, provides an instalments after 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years from the grant date.
If an MRT resigns prior to the final vesting incentive for the employee date then they normally forfeit part of these awards, as follows: to stay at Schroders and makes it more expensive for Years since grant date: Less than 1.5 1.5 to 2.5 2.5 to 3.5 competitors to recruit talent % lost for fund awards 100% 66.7% 33.3% from Schroders.
Deferred share awards operate on similar terms but the deferral period is three years, rather than 3.5.
These awards are available to exercise in three equal instalments after 1, 2 and 3 years from the grant date.
If an MRT resigns prior to the third anniversary of grant the forfeiture terms are as follows: Years since grant date: Less than 1 1 to 2 2 to 3 % lost for share awards 100% 66.7% 33.3% LTIP Executive Directors typically receive an LTIP award in March each year.
LTIP awards are conditional rights to acquire shares in the Company at nil cost.
From 2018, awards granted to executive Directors To incentivise executive are subject to a 12-month holding period from when they vest, during which they cannot be exercised, Directors to deliver after which they may then be exercised within a 12-month period.
long-term performance and the achievement of strategic The Committee sets performance conditions for each award.
As for previous awards, the performance priorities, while maximising targets for awards to be granted in 2018 relate to EPS growth, in respect of 50% of each award, and alignment with shareholder NNB in respect of the other 50% see pages 84 and 90. interests.
LTIP awards do not give rise to any immediate entitlement and normally require the participant to be employed continuously by the Group until the awards vest, following the end of the four-year performance period.
At that time, the Committee will determine the extent to which the performance conditions have been achieved and the extent to which the awards may be exercised.
For LTIP awards granted from 2018 onwards, when determining vesting the Committee has the discretion to reduce the extent to which awards vest if the Group has suffered a material failure of risk management or if the Committee judges that the unadjusted outcome from the performance conditions does not reflect underlying performance.
70 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Pay for performance LTIP Pay for performance annual bonus award deferred Pay for performance annual bonus award upfront Governance Component, purpose andlinkto strategy Operation Malus and clawbackpolicy Under malus terms, deferred remuneration awards granted under the DAP, ECP, Equity Incentive Plan EIP or LTIP may be reduced or lapsed, at the Committees discretion.
Under clawback terms, To allow variable remuneration amounts paid or released from such awards may be recovered for a period of 12 months from the awards to be risk-adjusted in date of payment or release, at the Committees discretion.
The circumstances in which malus and certain circumstances.
clawback could be applied include a material mistatement of the Groups financial results, individual misconduct or negligence.
Malus and clawback terms apply to awards granted to the executive Directors, on the same basis as for other employees.
In addition, executive Directors contracts extend clawback terms to the upfront cash portion of any annual bonus awards, in the event of individual misconduct.
Malus terms apply to ECP awards granted since May 2011, to EIP awards granted since July 2013 and to DAP and LTIP awards granted at any time.
Clawback applies to ECP, EIP and LTIP awards granted since October 2013 and to DAP awards granted at any time.
For awards granted prior to 2018 the circumstances in which malus and clawback terms could be applied were more narrowly described.
Personal shareholding policy The executive Directors are required, over time, to acquire and retain a holding of Schroders shares or rights to shares equivalent to 300% of base salary, or 500% of base salary for the Group Chief To align the interests of senior Executive.
On stepping down as an executive Director, a level of shareholding must be maintained for management with those of two years.
The level of shareholding that must be maintained is half the level of shareholding required shareholders.
while an executive Director or, if lower, the actual level of shareholding on stepping down.
Each executive Director undertakes not to sell or transfer any Schroders shares until their share ownership target has been reached and to ensure that the required shareholding is maintained when selling or transferring shares, except that shares may be sold to satisfy tax and social security liabilities arising when an award vests or is exercised.
For these purposes, rights to shares includes the estimated after-tax value of DAP, ECP and EIP share awards but does not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under the LTIP, as these are subject to performance conditions.
Shareholder dilution Deferred remuneration plans involving Schroders shares are non-dilutive to shareholders, as shares to satisfy awards are purchased in the market.
Details of our other deferred remuneration plans, the ECP and the EIP, are on page 75.
The expectation is that the DAP will be used in place of the ECP for future deferred bonus awards to the executive Directors.
ECP awards granted to the executive Directors during 2017 are shown on page 86.
Directors are not eligible to be granted awards under the EIP.
Considerations when determining the remuneration approach for UCITS AIF MRTs As set out in the Committee Chairmans statement on page 62, from 2017 we have changed the remuneration approach for employees deemed to be MRTs under the UCITS Directive or AIFMD, to meet the requirements of those Directives.
The executive Directors bonuses continue to operate in line with the Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders in April 2017.
However, as UCITS funds and funds subject to AIFMD represent asignificant part of the Group, we have included the executive Directors as MRTs under these rules.
For the executive Directors, as UCITS AIF MRTs, we have adjusted our remuneration policy implementation for performance-year 2017 and for future years as follows: We have increased the proportion of executive Directors annual bonus awards that is deferred, from approximately 50% to approximately 60%.
We continue to split the executive Directors deferred annual bonus awards equally between fund awards and share awards, creating alignment with clients and shareholders.
Previously all of the upfront portion of any annual bonus award i. e. that part that is not deferred was paid in cash.
This year we paid only half of the upfront bonus in cash and granted the other half as an upfront fund award.
Upfront fund awards are granted at the same time as deferred bonus awards and cannot be exercised for six months from grant.
This further aligns the interests of the executive Directors with our clients.
Unlike the deferred portion of any bonus, an upfront fund award is not normally at risk of forfeiture if the holder leaves the Group.
We also extended the overall deferral period for deferred fund awards by six months.
These awards will be available to exercise in three equal instalments after 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years from the date of grant.
The overall deferral period for share awards remains three years and these awards will be available to exercise in three equal instalments after 1, 2 and 3 years from the grant date.
We created a new deferred remuneration plan, the DAP, and used this to grant deferred bonuses and upfront fund awards for MRTs, including the executive Directors.
The plan we previously used to grant deferred bonuses, the ECP, is sufficiently flexible for us to grant awards under this new approach but we designed the DAP specifically with the new approach in mind.
Prior shareholder approval of the DAP is not required as any awards to the executive Directors under this plan will only be in respect of the deferral of bonus.
Employees who are not deemed to be UCITS AIF MRTs continue to be granted deferred bonuses under the ECP.
We adopted a broader description of the circumstances in which malus and clawback terms could be applied, which include a material mistatement of the Groups financial results, individual misconduct or negligence.
These changes in approach are reflected in the remuneration policy summary for the executive Directors on pages 69 to 71.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Remuneration report continued Executive Directors remuneration policy illustrations The diagram below illustrates the structure of the executive Directors remuneration, including the timing of when they receive each component of their total remuneration, across the following: Fixed components of pay, for salary, benefits and allowances based on when they are paid or enjoyed, and for retirement benefits on when contributions are made or cash in lieu paid: The different components of any annual bonus award, showing for each portion when it will be paid or available to exercise: and The LTIP performance and holding periods, based on the LTIP awards to be granted following the financial year end.
Compensation value LTIP 4-year deferral, subject to performance conditions, followed by a 1-year holding period Holding period Shares 3.5-year deferaral Funds Deferred portion of any annual bonus 3-year deferral Shares award granted half as a deferred fund award, available to exercise in equal 2.5-year deferral Funds instalments after 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years DAP awards from grant, and half as a deferred share 2-year deferral Shares award, available to exercise in equal 80% of total instalments after 1, 2 and3 years 1.5-year deferral Funds annual from grant.
bonus award 1-year deferral Shares 6-month Upfront holding fund Upfront portion of any annual bonus period award award paid half in cash in February after year end and half granted as an upfront fund award that is subject to a six-month Cash 20% of totalannual Cash holding period.
bonus award Fixed pay 2017 Feb Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Sep Mar Time 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 The table below provides more information on each of the components of pay illustrated above.
Component of Malus applies until Clawback pay Deferral and holdingperiods paid settled applies LTIP Vests after the 4-year performance period, May be exercised from when For 12 months from settlement.
followed bya 1-year holding period theholding period ends for This period may be extended a12-month period incertain circumstances Deferred bonus Deferred for 1.5, 2.5 or 3.5 years, May be exercised from when For 12 months from settlement.
fund award sonormally available to exercise from thedeferral period ends to This period may be extended th September of years 1, 2 or 3 following grant the 5 anniversary of grant incertain circumstances Deferred bonus Deferred for 1, 2 or 3 years, May be exercised from when For 12 months from settlement.
share award so normally available to exercise from thedeferral period ends to This period may be extended th March of years 1, 2 or 3 following grant the 10 anniversary of grant incertain circumstances Upfront bonus Six-month holding period, so normally May be exercised from when For 12 months from settlement.
fund award available to exercise from September theholding period ends to This period may be extended in th following the year end the 5 anniversary of grant certain circumstances Upfront bonus Paid in February following Conditions comparable with For 12 months from the payment cash the year end malus terms apply until the date.
This period may be dateof payment extended in certain circumstances Fixed pay Paid during the Not applicable Not applicable performance-year 72 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Remuneration policy scenarios The potential value of each component of remuneration for the executive Directors is illustrated below.
These scenario charts show, for each of the executive Director roles, the relative split of fixed components of remuneration, annual bonus awards and LTIP awards, in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy.
The lowest, average and highest remuneration over the nine years ended 31 December 2017 has been used as an indication of the earnings potential for each role.
Over the same period, profit before tax and exceptional items has ranged from 137.5 million to 800.3 million.
Future remuneration will be determined based on performance, as described elsewhere in this report.
Group Chief Executive 000 Peter Harrison Fixed pay 100% 559 9-year lowest 20% 17% 17% 23% 23% 2,867 9-year average 9% 18% 18% 25% 25% 5% 6,467 9-year highest 6% 18% 18% 26% 26% 6% 9,073 Chief Financial Ocer 000 Richard Keers Fixed pay 100% 429 9-year lowest 30% 16% 16% 19% 19% 1,377 9-year average 16% 16% 16% 22% 22% 8% 2,627 9-year highest 12% 16% 16% 22% 22% 12% 3,579 Fixed pay Upfront bonus fund award Deferred bonus share award Upfront bonus cash Deferred bonus fund award LTIP The remuneration policy illustrations above are based on actual fixed pay and annual bonus awards for each role over the nine years ended 31 December 2017 and the LTIP awards due to be granted in March 2018 see page 90, as follows: Fixed pay In these scenarios, fixed pay consists of base salary, benefits and allowances and retirement benefits.
Salary is the annual salary effective from 1 March 2018.
Benefits and allowances and retirement benefits are the anticipated annualised amounts from 1 March 2018.
Benefits and Retirement 000 Base salary allowances benefits Total fixed pay Group Chief Executive 500 14 45 559 Chief Financial Officer 375 9 45 429 Lowest Average Highest Annual bonus award Being the lowest over the last Being the mean over the last Being the highest over the last nine years of the sum of actual nine years of the sum of actual nine years of the sum of actual annual bonus award and actual annual bonus award and actual annual bonus award and actual fixed pay each year, less the fixed pay each year, less the fixed pay each year, less the fixed pay value shown above.
fixed pay value shown above.
In all three scenarios the annual bonus award is then partly paid in cash, part granted as an upfront fund award and part subject to deferral into fund and share awards, asoutlined in the policy.
Being the face value of the Being the face value of award award to be granted in March tobe granted in March 2018, 2018, assuming 50% vesting.
The total remuneration values used in these scenarios for the Group Chief Executive reflect the remuneration awarded to Peter Harrison inrespect of 2016 and 2017 performance and to Michael Dobson in respect of performance in 2009 to 2015.
For the Chief Financial Officer theyreflect the remuneration awarded to Richard Keers for performance in 2013 to 2017 and to his predecessor Kevin Parry for performance in2009 to 2012.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Remuneration report continued Summary of the remuneration policy for the non-executive Directors The table below sets out the remuneration policy for non-executive Directors, who only receive fixed pay and benefits.
Component Operation Further information Fees Fees for the Chairman and other non-executive Although Directors fees are reviewed biennially the Directors see page 86 are determined by the Board Board membership fee had not increased since 2011.
To reflect the skills, based on market information for comparable asset It was decided that this fee should be increased to experience and time managers and other financial services groups and the 80,000 with effect from 1 July 2017.
This equates required to undertake constituent companies of the FTSE-100 Index.
toan annualised increase of 2.3%, compared to an the role.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in decisions average annualised salary increase for employees concerning their fees.
The fee for the Senior Independent Director was increased to 20,000, not having been adjusted since it was introduced in 2011.
The Chairmans fee, and the fees for Committee Chairmanship and membership, were unchanged.
Benefits Non-executive Directors benefits are principally Schroders does not pay retirement or expenses incurred in connection with the Groups post-employment benefits to non-executive Directors.
To enable the nonbusiness and reflect business needs.
Non-executive They do not participate in any of the Groups incentive executive Directors to Directors may receive private use of a driver, car arrangements.
Michael Dobson, Philip Mallinckrodt undertake their roles.
parking, meals, travel costs, tax on reimbursed and Bruno Schroder have accrued pension benefits, benefits and, in the case of Bruno Schroder, private asformer executives.
Michael Dobson and Bruno health care and medical benefits.
Michael Dobson Schroder have been in receipt of a pension since May receives life insurance benefits on the same terms 2012 and April 2007 respectively.
All three have ceased asUK employees and private health care and medical accruing any further entitlement.
benefits for him and his family.
Recruitment of new Directors Directors service contracts On appointment, the Committee aims to pay executive Directors  remuneration that is appropriate in level and structure to attract, Each of the executive Directors has a rolling service contract with motivate, retain and reward Directors of the quality required to run amutual notice period of six months.
Each of the non-executive theGroup successfully, while avoiding paying more than is necessary.
Directors has a letter of appointment with a mutual notice period of sixmonths, with the exception of Bruno Schroder who does not have The level of base salary is likely to be set at the same level as for other anotice period.
Directors, provided this is justifiable by reference to the candidates skills and experience, and taking into account remuneration in their Letters of appointment and service contracts are available for most recent role, internal relativities and external market rates for shareholders to view at the Companys registered office on business roles with similar responsibilities.
Benefits and allowances, retirement days between the hours of 9 a. m. and 5 p. m. and will be available benefits and SIP participation will be provided to new executive atthe AGM.
Directors on a similar basis as to other employees.
If the Group hires a new executive Director internationally then relocation support may be offered, onasimilar basis to that which would be offered for other Summary of the policy on employees.
 New executive Directors would be eligible to be considered for annual When an executive Director leaves the Group, the Committee will bonus awards and LTIP awards in the same way as existing Directors.
review the circumstances and apply the treatment that it believes is The Group does not award guaranteed annual bonuses to executive appropriate.
Any payments will be determined in accordance with the Directors.
terms of the service contract between the Group and the employee, New non-executive Directors receive fees and benefits in line with the aswell as the rules of any deferred remuneration plans and the Directors remuneration policy.
There are no contractual provisions for policy for other non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment.
They do not have service non-executive Directors to receive compensation upon termination.
When recruiting new non-executive Directors, the Boards Base salary, benefits and allowances, and retirement benefits for policy is that letters of appointment will have a mutual notice period executive Directors will continue to be paid through the notice period, ofsix months.
as will fees for non-executive Directors.
The Committee also has the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice to executive Directors, normally based on salary only.
The treatment of shares acquired orawarded under the SIP will be in accordance with the plan rules.
74 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Departing executive Directors do not have a contractual entitlement Equity Compensation Plan ECP toan annual bonus award.
If a departing Director works during the notice period to achieve the Groups goals and supports an effective The ECP is one of the Groups main deferral arrangements for transition of responsibilities, the Committee may recommend to the annual bonus awards, alongside the DAP.
ECP awards relate to Board that a discretionary payment be made to reflect the Directors thepast years performance and are not subject to any further contribution during the proportion of the financial year worked.
ECP awards do not give rise to any Anysuch payment will normally be subject to the same deferral immediate entitlement and normally require the participant to arrangements as an annual bonus award, provided this is permitted beemployed until the third anniversary of grant in order to vest under applicable law and regulations and except in the case of death, infull, except in certain circumstances such as death, ill health ill health or injury when payment may be fully in cash, at the orotherwise at the Committees discretion.
Deferred bonuses for employees who are not UCITS AIF MRTs The treatment of awards under the DAP, ECP and EIP held by are delivered as a combination of ECP fund awards and ECP share departing executive Directors will be in accordance with the relevant awards.
ECP fund awards areconditional rights to receive a cash plan rules.
In certain circumstances, those rules permit participants to sum based on the value ofanotional investment in a range of retain some or all of their unvested awards following the termination Schroders funds.
ECP share awards are conditional rights to of their employment, for example if the employee is leaving due to ill acquire shares in the Company at nil cost.
Additional shares health or injury, or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee.
Any equivalent to dividends accrue until the award is exercised.
unvested awards that are retained will vest on their normal vesting date except in the case of death, and ill health at the Committees discretion, when they vest immediately.
The treatment of LTIP awards is similar except that in all cases any vesting remains subject to Equity Incentive Plan EIP satisfaction of the associated performance conditions and will be The EIP is an additional deferred remuneration plan, used reduced pro-rata for the proportion of the performance period toreward exceptional performance and potential.
EIP awards worked, and that the Committee does not have the discretion to donotgive rise to any immediate entitlement and normally accelerate vesting for those leaving due to ill health.
require the participant to be employed continuously by the Group until the fifth anniversary of grant.
If a participant resigns before On stepping down, executive Directors are required to maintain for the fifth anniversary of grant, awards are normally forfeited in full.
aperiod of two years a holding of shares or interests in shares equal Malus and clawback terms apply.
Executive Directors are not innumber to half that which applied under the personal shareholding eligible to be granted new EIP awards.
policy prior to stepping down, or the number actually held on stepping down if lower.
EIP fund awards are conditional rights to receive a cash sum based on the value ofanotional investment in a range of Schroders funds.
EIP share awards are conditional rights to acquire shares in Other deferred remuneration plans the Company at nil cost.
Additional shares equivalent to dividends The DAP and LTIP are explained in the executive Directors accrue until the award is exercised.
remuneration policy summary, on page 70.
The boxes on the right provide more information on our other deferred remuneration plans, the ECP and the EIP.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Governance Directors report The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report and At the 2017 AGM shareholders renewed the Directors authority to Accounts identified below forms part of this Directors report: issue 5,000,000 non-voting ordinary shares in order to provide the Directors with the flexibility to issue non-voting ordinary shares or to Strategic report grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting Board of Directors ordinary shares.
Shareholders also gave approval for the Company to buy back up to 14,100,000 non-voting ordinary shares, which will Corporate governance report, including the Nominations expire at the 2018 AGM.
Renewal of these authorities will be sought at Committee report and the Audit and Risk Committee report the 2018 AGM which will be held at 11.30 a. m. on 26 April 2018.
The Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Share capital Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust, ordinary and non-voting Schroders has developed under stable ownership for more than 200 ordinary shares are held on trust on behalf of employee share plan years and has been a public company whose ordinary shares have participants.
The trustees of these trusts may exercise the voting rights been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1959.
The Companys in any way they think fit.
In doing so, they may consider the financial share capital is comprised of ordinary shares of 1 each and nonand non-financial interests of the beneficiaries and their dependents.
voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
The ordinary shares have a As at 27 February 2018, being the latest practicable date before the premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and the non-voting publication of this Annual Report and Accounts, the Schroders ordinary shares have a standard listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust together held 8,748,057 ordinary shares and 319,317 non-voting 226,022,400 ordinary shares 80% of the total issued share capital ordinary shares.
were in issue throughout the year.
The Company has no authority to issue or buy back any ordinary shares.
Each ordinary share carries the Under the terms of the Share Incentive Plan, as at 27 February 2018, right to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
616,602 ordinary shares were held in trust on behalf of plan 56,739,223 non-voting ordinary shares 20% of the total issued share participants.
At the participants direction, the trustees can exercise the capital were in issue at the beginning of 2017.
No shares were held voting rights over ordinary shares in respect of participant in treasury.
The non-voting ordinary shares were created in 1986 to facilitate the There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares operation of an employee share plan without diluting the voting rights save for: of ordinary shareholders.
The non-voting ordinary shares carry the Restrictions imposed by laws and regulations: same rights as ordinary shares except that they do not provide the right to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company and that, Restrictions on the transfer of shares imposed under the Companys on a capitalisation issue, they carry the right to receive non-voting Articles of Association or under Part 22 of the UK Companies Act ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
2006, in either case after a failure to supply information required to be disclosed following service of a request under section 793 of the When the non-voting ordinary shares were created the ratio of UK Companies Act 2006: and ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares was 4:1.
The Company Restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee has at times issued non-voting ordinary shares, principally in share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
connection with the Groups employee share plans or as consideration for an acquisition.
The Company has not intended and does not intend The Company is not aware of any agreement between shareholders to increase the issued non-voting ordinary share capital over the that may restrict the transfer of securities or voting rights.
medium term and therefore has, at times, bought back non-voting ordinary shares.
Following the acquisition of Benchmark Capital in December 2016 for which Schroders plc issued 233,623 non-voting ordinary shares in part consideration, the Company entered into a share buy-back programme during 2017 to repurchase 233,623 non-voting ordinary shares.
The Company completed the share buy-back programme in March 2017, purchasing 233,623 shares, at a cost of 5.4 million, representing 0.4% of the issued non-voting ordinary share capital.
Of the shares repurchased, all were cancelled immediately, restoring the initial ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares to 4:1.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Directors report Member Class of shares No.
of voting rights held % of voting rights held 1 Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,724,609 26.87 1 Ordinary 36,795,041 16.28 Veritas Limited 2 Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 2 Fervida Limited Ordinary 39,724,396 17.58 3 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 11,443,978 5.06 3 Lindsell Train Limited Ordinary 11,312,070 5.01 1.
Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are trustee companies which act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are party to the Relationship Agreement.
The interests of Flavida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited is interested as trustee.
Flavida Limited is party to the Relationship Agreement.
The interests of Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Veritas Limited is interested as trustee.
Fervida Limited is party to the Relationship Agreement.
Harris Associates L. P. and Lindsell Train Limited are not party to the Relationship Agreement.
Substantial shareholdings Dividends As at 31 December 2017, the Company had received notifications, in The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 79 pence per accordance with rule 5.1.
2R of the Disclosure Guidance and share which, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, will be paid on Transparency Rules, of interests in 3% or more of the voting rights 3 May 2018 to shareholders on the register of members at close of attaching to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in the table business on 23 March 2018.
Details on the Companys dividend policy above.
There had been no changes to these notifications or additional are set out on page 27.
Dividends payable in respect of the year, notifications as at the date of this report.
subject to this approval, along with prior year payments, are set out below.
Relationship Agreement 2017 2016 The Schroder family interests are in shares owned directly or indirectly Ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares pence m pence m by trustee companies which act as trustees of various trusts settled by family individuals, in shares owned by family individuals, and in shares Interim 34.0 92.9 29.0 78.9 owned by a family charity.
The trustee holdings include the interests Final 79.0 217.0 64.0 174.7 43.15% held by Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited, as disclosed in the table above, and further interests 1.6% held by two other trustee Total 113.0 309.9 93.0 253.6 companies which are not required to be disclosed under the Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Schroders Employee Benefit Trust and the Schroder US Holdings If aggregated, the total interests covered by the Relationship Inc. Grantor Trust have waived their rights to dividends paid on both Agreement including shares held by the trustee companies, individuals the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in respect of 2017 and and the family charity amount to 108,323,711 of the Companys future periods.
See notes 8 and 22 to the financial statements.
Corporate Responsibility Following changes made to the UK Listing Rules in May 2014, Details of the Companys employment practices, including diversity companies with a shareholder or shareholders who could, when acting and employee involvement can be found in the Strategic report from in concert, exercise 30% or more of the voting rights of a company at a page 28. general meeting, are required to enter into a binding agreement with that shareholder or shareholders.
This is intended to ensure that the We are committed to minimising the environmental impact of our parties to the agreement comply with certain independence provisions operations and to delivering continuous improvement in our as set out in the Listing Rules.
Accordingly, on 14 November 2014, the environmental performance.
See page 32 for more details on our total Company entered into such an agreement the Relationship CO e emissions data.
2 Agreement with a number of shareholders who own or control the ordinary shares and associated voting rights referred to above.
Indemnities and Insurance At the 2007 AGM, shareholders authorised the Company to provide In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Board confirms that for indemnities to, and to fund defence costs for, Directors in certain the year ended 31 December 2017: circumstances.
All Directors at the time shareholder approval was the Company has complied with the independence provisions received were granted specific deeds of indemnity and any Director included in the Relationship Agreement: and appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity.
This means that, on their appointment, new Directors are granted an so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions indemnity as defined in the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any third included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by party liabilities that they may incur as a result of their service on the the other parties to the Relationship Agreement and their Board.
All Directors indemnities were in place during the year and associates.
92 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR compliance Company for all Directors.
4C The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are not As part of the integration of Cazenove Capital, the Cazenove Capital applicable to Schroders.
The table below sets out the location of the Management Limited Pension Scheme was merged with the Schroders disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: Retirement Benefits Scheme with effect from 31 December 2014.
Pursuant to that merger, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity as Disclosure defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 provided by Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 provided Schroders plc for the benefit of the Directors of Cazenove Capital 12 Details of any arrangements under which a See page 92 Management Pension Trustee Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any was put in place at that time and remains in force.
This indemnity provision covers, to the extent permitted by law, certain 13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive See pages losses or liabilities incurred by the Directors of Cazenove Capital future dividends, details of such waiver together 92, 107 and Management Pension Trustee Limited in connection with that with those relating to dividends which are payable 129 companys activities as trustee of the Cazenove Capital Management during the period under review.
14 A statement made by the Board that the See page 92 Directors conflicts of interest Company has entered into an agreement under LR The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and 9.2.
2A, that the Company has, and, as far as it is manage conflicts of interest, including of Directors of the Company, aware, the other parties to the agreement have, and they have operated effectively during the year.
In circumstances complied with the provisions in the agreement.
where a potential conflict arises, the Board excluding the Director concerned will consider the situation and either authorise the Going concern arrangement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Companys Articles of Association or take other appropriate action.
its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic report.
In addition, the financial statements include All potential conflicts authorised by the Board are recorded in a information on the Groups approach to managing its capital and conflicts register which is maintained by the Company Secretary and financial risk: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Directors have a continuing and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
duty to update the Board with any changes to their conflicts of interest.
The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of products and a geographically diversified business.
As a consequence, Change of control the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally business risks in the context of the current economic outlook.
provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the of a change of control.
However, the provisions of the Companys employee share schemes may cause awards granted to employees Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore under such schemes to vest on a change of control.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would Report and Accounts.
take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
In addition, the Directors have assessed the Companys viability over a Political donations period of five years.
The results of this assessment are set out on No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure page 36. incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2016: nil By Order of the Board.
and there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
Graham Staples Company Secretary 28 February 2018 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the In addition, each of the Directors considers that this Annual Report Consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and regulations.
and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess theCompanys performance, business model and strategy.
The Companies Act 2006, being the applicable law in the UK, requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The Directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial theaudited financial information on the website at schroders.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
The financial financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Forward-looking statements Group for that period.
This Annual Report and Accounts and the Schroders website may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: condition, performance and position, strategy, results of operations Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
and businesses of the Company and the Group.
Such statements and Make estimates and judgements that are reasonable and prudent.
forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they are based on current expectations and assumptions but relate to events and State that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by depend upon circumstances in the future and you should not place the EU, subject to any material departure disclosed and explained reliance on them.
Without limitation, any statements preceded or inthe financial statements.
followed by or that include the words targets, plans, believes, Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless expects, confident, aims, will have, will be, will ensure, estimates itis inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in or anticipates or the negative of these terms or other similar terms business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
There are orqualifications as necessary.
anumber of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency statements and forecasts.
Forward-looking statements and forecasts Rules of the FCA to include a management report containing a fair are based on the Directors current view and information known to review of the business and a description of the principal risks and them at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors uncertainties facing the Company and the Group.
donot make any undertaking to update or revise any forward-looking The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting statements, whether as a result of new information, future events records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys orotherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the construed as a forecast, estimate or projection of future financial financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them performance.
to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors statement Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed in the Board of Directors section of this Annual Report and Accounts, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: The consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the Group.
The Directors report contained in this Annual Report and Accounts which comprises the sections described on page 91, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
94 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Pages 76 to 90 constitute the Annual report on remuneration.
This section also sets out the context for the Directors remuneration, Shareholders will have an advisory vote on this, together with pages including the main performance metrics that the Committee 62 to 67, at the AGM.
Where required, this information has been considered when setting the overall annual bonus pool and audited by PwC.
information on how annual bonus awards were allocated across the Group, along with details of the key performance criteria considered This section sets out remuneration disclosures for 2017, across when determining executive Directors annual bonus awards.
Returns Schroders as a whole and specifically for the executive and nonto shareholders over the last nine years are compared with the total executive Directors, and compares this to remuneration for 2016.
The remuneration of the Group Chief Executive over the same period.
Directors remuneration was compliant with the policy approved by Directors rights under fund and share awards and the share interests shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
of Directors and their connected persons are also detailed.
Aligning pay and performance acrossSchroders Group performance audited Aligning remuneration costs with financial Net income excluding exceptional items increased 15% in 2017 performance reflecting continued net new business wins and positive investment The total spend on remuneration is derived from the total returns for clients.
The Group saw record profit before tax and compensation ratio, measuring total remuneration expense against exceptional items of 800.3 million, up 24%, and basic earnings per net income.
This ensures that the interests of employees are aligned share before exceptional items of 226.9 pence, up 22%.
The Board is with the Groups financial performance.
recommending a final dividend of 79.0 pence, bringing the total The Committee received a report on the underlying strength and dividend for the year to 113.0 pence, an increase of 22%.
sustainability of the business and reports on risk, legal and compliance Net new business was 9.6 billion 2016: 1.1 billion, with net inflows matters from the heads of those areas.
These were considered as part across all channels.
AUMA ended the year at a record high of of the 2017 compensation review.
447.0 billion 2016: 395.3 billion and 74% 2016: 74% of our AUM The Committee determined the annual bonus pool for the year ended outperformed their stated comparator in the three years to 31 December 2017 based on a total compensation ratio of 43% 31 December 2017.
On an underlying basis the total compensation ratio is Further information on the Groups operating and financial unchanged year on year, as we have around a 1% benefit from higher performance can be found in the Strategic report, beginning on levels of bonus deferral for our UCITS AIF MRTs.
Within the Strategic report, the table on pages 14 and 15 compensation ratio is below our target range of 45% to 49%, as the outlines the Groups strategy and how our objectives are aligned with Committee and the Board as a whole remain mindful of the significant those of our clients.
Pages 16 and 17 show our performance against challenges the asset management industry faces.
From 2016 to 2017, our key performance indicators over the five years to headcount is up 11% and fixed remuneration costs are up 15%.
The 31 December 2017. annual bonus pool was up 12%, assuming constant currency rates.
Key performance metrics Key remuneration metrics Net income Headcount 8% 10% 15% 11% profit before tax Fixed remuneration costs 6% 16% 24% 15% Earnings per share Annual bonus pool 5% -7% 22% 12% Dividend per share Total remuneration costs 7% 8% 22% 11% 2016 vs 2015 2016 vs 2015 2017 vs 2016 2017 vs 2016 Before exceptional items.
76 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Relative spend on pay The charts below illustrate the relative spend on pay for 2017 compared with 2016.
The values are taken from the financial statements and show how remuneration costs before exceptional items compare with shareholder distributions, taxes arising and earnings retained, in order to illustrate how net income is utilised.
2016 % vs 2015 2017 % vs 2016 14% 15% 23% 22% Fixed remuneration 403.6m 16% Fixed remuneration 464.4m 15% Variable remuneration 234.1m 1% Variable remuneration 239.9m 2% upfront upfront 14% 15% Variable remuneration 90.2m -1% Variable remuneration 105.7m 17% 12% deferred deferred 13% Other operating expenses 356.8m 13% Other operating expenses 387.3m 9% 11% 12% Corporate tax and 196.1m 4% 5% Corporate tax and 242.9m 24% 5% social security social security 19% 20% Retained earnings 258.7m 5% Retained earnings 319.8m 24% Interim dividend paid and 253.6m 7% Interim dividend paid and 308.9m 22% final dividend recommended final dividend recommended The annual bonus pool and annual bonus award allocations across the Group The Group Chief Executive allocates the overall pool between the divisions or functions headed by GMC members, taking into consideration the objectives, both financial and non-financial, that were set at the beginning of the year.
Variable remuneration awards for individual employees, other than those determined by the Committee or the Group Chief Executive, are recommended to the Group Chief Executive by members of the GMC, taking account of individual performance against objectives, the performance of the relevant business area and the levels of reward for comparable roles in the market.
The Committee determines the remuneration for the executive Directors and Group Company Secretary, monitors and reviews remuneration for other GMC members, control function heads and other MRTs, and also provides oversight of the compensation review overall.
For 2017, the Committee was satisfied that the process was rigorous and that the allocation of the pool and the individual bonus awards took account of both financial and non-financial performance, including conduct and behaviours as described on page89.
The table below compares the annual bonus pools for 2017 and 2016, divided into amounts paid in cash, upfront fund awards and amounts deferred.
The 2016 figures are also shown after adjusting to reflect the foreign exchange rates used during the 2017 compensation review, to provide a better comparison of what was awarded to employees each year.
This year we have made changes to our remuneration approach for employees deemed to be UCITS AIF MRTs see page 62.
These include increased bonus deferral levels for these employees and the use of upfront fund awards for half of that portion of any bonus that is not deferred.
The impact of these changes is reflected in the figures shown above.
Adjusted 1 2017 2016 2016 Total compensation ratio 43% n a 44% m m m Annual bonus awards paid in cash 208.7 241.9 234.1 Annual bonus awards granted in upfront fund awards 31.2 0.0 0.0 Annual bonus awards deferred into fund awards 59.1 36.6 35.6 Annual bonus awards deferred into share awards 61.4 42.6 41.3 Bonus pool 360.4 321.1 311.0 Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred 33% 25% 25% Number of bonus-eligible employees 3,914 3,622 3,622 Mean annual bonus award per bonus-eligible employee 92,070 88,643 85,857 2 Median annual bonus award per bonus-eligible employee 20,000 18,293 18,000 Group Chief Executives bonus as a % of the bonus pool 1.8% 1.7% 1.8% Aggregate bonuses to executive Directors as a % of the bonus pool 2.6% 4.0% 4.2% 1.
Adjusted to reflect the same foreign exchange rates as those used for the 2017 figures.
Restated from 17,806 to include bonuses paid to employees who left employment prior to the bonus payment date.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Remuneration report continued Comparison of the percentage change in base salary, Gender pay Schroders was one of the first signatories of the Women in Finance benefits and annual bonus award Charter in the UK, as part of our commitment to promote diversity of The chart below compares, for each of base salary, benefits and thought and ensure Schroders is an inclusive place to work.
The focus annual bonus award, the percentage change from 2016 to 2017 for of our commitment is broader than gender and more information on the Group Chief Executive with the average year on year percentage our approach to diversity can be found on page 28. change across employees of the Group taken as a whole exceptwherenoted.
We originally committed to increase the representation of women in senior management from 25% at the end of 2015 to 30% by the end of 2019.
We made good progress and increased female representation to Comparison of the percentage change in value from more than 30% for most of 2017, though by the end of 2017 this had 2016 to 2017 fallen below 30% again as a result of minor restructurings within the firm.
As a result of the progress made, we increased this target to 33% 1 Base salary female representation in senior management by the end of 2019.
We 7% have increased female representation on the GMC from 7% to 19% since the end of 2015.
Our focus is developing the pipeline of female 3% talent immediately below the GMC, where female representation is 2 Benets currently also 19%.
18% The data below illustrates the representation issue by looking at the 13% proportion of employees by gender according to quartile pay bands.
This is based on hourly fixed pay for each employee, reflecting base 3 Bonus salary and cash allowances.
18% The proportion of female vs male employees according to quartile pay bands 11% Top quartile of employees based on hourly fixed pay 22% females, 78% males Peter Harrison Employees of the Group Second quartile 38% females, 62% males 1.
For base salary, employees of the Group are those who were in employment Third quartile 47% females, 53% males for the full year to 31 December 2017 and represents the average salary increase during 2017.
For benefits, employees of the Group are those who were in employment in Total workforce 41% females, 59% males the UK for the full year to 31 December 2017 and represents the average change in benefits value during 2017.
For bonus, employees of the Group are bonus-eligible employees who worked Our analysis of pay levels for comparable roles shows that male and in the Group for all of 2017 and 2016 see page 77. female employees are paid fairly for similar work.
However, the lower representation of women at senior levels within the Group, which is an The Group Chief Executive received no salary increase in 2017.
The issue across the financial services sector, is reflected in the gender pay salary increase shown reflects the impact of increasing Peter gap shown below.
This looks across the total workforce and sets out Harrisons salary to 500,000 partway through 2016, from his the gender pay gap for both hourly fixed pay, as described above, and appointment as Group Chief Executive on 3 April 2016.
Salary increases total variable pay, consisting of the annual bonus awarded in respect across the Group during 2017 were targeted at employees whose of 2017 plus any other deferred remuneration awards during the year.
roles had increased in scope materially during the year and those Schroders globally whose fixed pay significantly lagged behind market rates.
Particular attention was also given to those on lower salaries, for whom fixed pay Hourly fixed The amount by which the male forms a greater proportion of total remuneration.
pay median exceeds the female 31% median, as a % of the male median 2016: 33% Peter Harrisons annual bonus award for 2017 was 18% higher than for 2016, reflecting the exceptional performance during the year and that The amount by which the male he was appointed Group Chief Executive partway through 2016, mean exceeds the female mean, 30% having previously been an executive Director as Head of Investment.
as a % of the male mean 2016: 31% The mean annual bonus award increase for bonus-eligible employees Total variable The amount by which the male who worked in the Group for all of 2017 and 2016 was 11%, as shown pay median exceeds the female 50% above, and the median was 14%.
Individual annual bonus awards for median, as a % of the male median 2016: 59% 2017 compared with 2016 varied from an increase in excess of 100% to a reduction of bonus to nil, reflecting our pay for The amount by which the male performance philosophy.
mean exceeds the female mean, 49% as a % of the male mean 2016: 66% The increase in Peter Harrisons benefits reflects the cost of benefits The proportion of female and male 93% of females, linked to salary, after his salary was increased during 2016, a general employees who received variable 95% of males increase in the cost of certain benefits and slightly greater private use pay 2016: 95% 96% of a car and driver.
The increase for other UK employees reflects a range of factors, in particular a general increase in the cost of certain benefits and the cost of benefits linked to salary.
These gender pay gaps have narrowed since last year as we have increased female representation at more senior levels but there is still more work to do.
More information on our Diversity and Inclusion action plan and on gender pay at Schroders, including our UK disclosures, can be found on our website, schroders.
78 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Single total remuneration figure for each executive Director audited The total remuneration of each of the executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is set out below.
As disclosed in the 2016 Annual report on remuneration, the Committee increased Peter Harrisons salary to 500,000 with effect from his appointment as Group Chief Executive on 3 April 2016.
This salary is the same as was paid to his predecessor.
Benefits and allowances Includes one or more of: private healthcare, life assurance, permanent total disability insurance, SIP matching shares, car parking, private use of a company driver and cash in lieu of discontinued benefits.
Retirement benefits Represents the aggregate of contributions to defined contribution pension arrangements and cash in lieu see page 84 ofpension for Peter Harrison and Richard Keers and cash in lieu of pension for Philip Mallinckrodt.
The table on page 84 shows how the retirement benefits figures above are comprised for each Director.
Annual bonus award Represents the total value of the annual bonus award for performance during the relevant financial year.
see pages 81 to 83 Page81 breaks down the bonus into cash paid through the payroll, as well as the upfront fund awards, deferred fund awards and deferred share awards that will be granted in March 2018.
Pages 82 and 83 set out the basis on which annual bonus awards for 2017 were determined.
LTIP vested Represents the estimated value that is expected to vest on 1 March 2018 from LTIP awards granted on see page 84 10March 2014.
More information on the performance achieved, how vesting will be determined and the value shown is provided on page 84.
The comparative value shown for 2016 represents the actual value that vested on 1 March 2017 from LTIP awards granted on 27 March 2013.
The 2016 LTIP vested values disclosed last year were estimates, as the Annual Report and Accounts was finalised prior to the vesting date.
For Philip Mallinckrodt, the remuneration reported in the table above was paid for his contribution during 2016 and the period of 2017 that he was an executive Director.
His fees as a non-executive Director are reported in the table of non-executive Directors remuneration on page 85.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Remuneration report continued Competitive positioning Role Commentary We compete for talent in a global marketplace.
Most of our key competitors are headquartered outside the UK, particularly in the US, Group Chief Approximately half of the global asset and many are not publicly listed and are therefore subject to lower Executive manager comparator roles are from standards of transparency.
It is against this backdrop that the non-listed businesses, including firms Committee determines both our pay structures and levels of pay, to owned by a bank or insurance group and ensure that we are able to attract, motivate, reward and retain the privately owned businesses, whereas best talent.
Schroders is an independent publicly-listed company.
Schroders differs from most of Remuneration levels for employees, including the executive Directors, the global asset managers in including are reviewed annually and benchmarked by reference to the external Wealth Management within the Group market to ensure they remain appropriately competitive.
The chart Chief Executives remit, alongside Asset below illustrates the competitive positioning of pay for each executive Management.
As a result, the Schroders Director, while the table on the right provides additional commentary Group Chief Executive role sits amongst on the remuneration benchmarking approach in each case.
Total the more complex of the roles making up compensation abbreviated in the chart to total comp.
reflects base this competitive benchmark.
salary at the year end, annual bonus award for 2017 and the grantdate face value of any LTIP award granted during the year see page Chief Financial Officer The peer group for this role includes large 86, assuming 50% vesting.
The market data used in benchmarking UK-listed insurers in place of bank or these roles was provided independently by external advisors and insurance-owned asset managers where reflects competitor pay for 2016, which is the most up-to-date data asset management finance would report available, whereas the competitive position shown for Schroders in into a group finance function.
The each case reflects remuneration awarded for 2017.
Schroders Chief Financial Officer has wider responsibilities than the market norm, In considering competitiveness, the Committee focuses on levels of covering financial management, risk pay for comparable roles at other large international asset management, capital and treasury, human management firms, though the benchmark peer group is adjusted for resources, corporate communications and some roles to provide a more appropriate comparison.
This direct responsibility for a range of benchmarking is used to establish a frame of reference for what operational areas, aswell as firm-wide competitors are paying comparable roles, rather than as the start operational oversight.
point or a primary factor when remuneration decisions are made.
As outlined on pages 82 and 83, annual bonus awards are based on the Committees assessment of the overall performance of the business and of each executive Director.
The policy is to aim to pay executive Directors base salaries that are competitive with other large international asset management firms.
As a result, it is likely that salaries will be relatively low when compared to other listed financial services firms, as can be seen below for the FTSE-100 financial services firms.
Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Ocer Peter Harrison Richard Keers Global asset FTSE-100 Global asset FTSE-100 managers financial services managers financial services Top quartile 2nd quartile 3rd quartile Bottom quartile Base Total Base Total Base Total Base Total salary comp.
Positioning of remuneration at Schroders relative to the market benchmarks 80 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Performance of Schroders shares against the FTSE-100 Index and the Group Chief Executives total remuneration The graph on the right compares the total Schroders ordinary shares Group Chief Executives total remuneration shareholder return of Schroders shares with Schroders non-voting ordinary shares that of the FTSE-100, of which Schroders is a FTSE-100 Index longstanding constituent.
Over the last nine 600 10 years, the index has returned 143%, compared to a 425% return for Schroders ordinary shares and 402% for Schroders non-voting ordinary 500 8 shares.
This graph also shows theGroup Chief Executives single total remuneration figure 400 6 over the nine years ended 31 December 2017, for comparison.
The table below sets this out in 300 figures, as well as how variable pay plans have 4 paid out each year.
It also shows the ratio of 200 those single total remuneration figures to the mean and median total remuneration awarded 2 100 to employees as awhole and to other members of the GMC.
No maximum annual bonus opportunity was in place so each annual bonus award is shown as a percentage of the highest bonus award over the last nine years.
The years from 2009 to 2012 are shown as n a as the LTIP was introduced in May 2010 and the first award vested on 5 March 2014 based on the four-year performance period ending on 31 December 2013.
2017 shows as n a as Peter Harrison did not receive an LTIP award in 2014 and so has no LTIP due to vest in 2018.
The 2016 remuneration for Michael Dobson reflects the actual remuneration that he received for that part of 2016 that he served as Chief Executive.
Peter Harrison was appointed Group Chief Executive on 3 April 2016.
The 2016 remuneration value above reflects his full-year single total remuneration figure.
Restated to reflect actual single total remuneration figures see page 79.
Variable pay annual bonus award audited The table below sets out details of how the annual bonus award for each executive Director for performance during 2017 was delivered.
These values are reflected in the single total remuneration figure for each executive Director on page 79.
DAP award Upfront cash Upfront Deferred Deferred Total Total annual Percentage of 1 1 2017 000 bonus award fund award fund award share award DAP award bonusaward totalremuneration Peter Harrison 1,337 1,337 1,913 1,913 5,163 6,500 92% Richard Keers 575 575 800 800 2,175 2,750 79% 1.
Deferred DAP awards granted to each executive Director were, in aggregate, reduced by 25% of the face value at grant of any LTIP award granted in 2017 seepage84.
Upfront fund awards cannot be exercised for six months from grant but are not normally at risk of forfeiture if the holder resigns and leaves the Group.
Deferred fund awards normally require the holder to remain in employment for the 3.5 years following grant to vest in full and are available to exercise in three equal instalments after 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 years from grant.
Deferred share awards normally require the holder to remain in employment for the three years following grant to vest in full and are available to exercise in three equal instalments after 1, 2 and 3 years from grant.
Philip Mallinckrodt was not eligible for a bonus in respect of his contribution during the period of 2017 that he was Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Management see page 85.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 Group Chief Executives single total remuneration gure m Remuneration report continued Basis for determining annual bonus awards audited In determining the annual bonus award for the executive Directors, the Committee made an assessment of the overall performance of the business using our key performance indicators, which are aligned to delivering the Groups strategy, as outlined on pages 16 and 17.
An assessment of each individuals performance was also made, including business performance within each individuals responsibilities, and the extent to which they have met annual objectives.
Financial factors such as profitability, cost control and investment performance represent the significant majority of measures the Committee considers to ensure that remuneration outcomes are aligned to the value created for shareholders.
Both short-term and long-term performance are taken into account.
Non-financial factors such as risk management, conduct, employee engagement or achievement of key strategic goals in any year are also considered, although normally have less prominence in determining the annual bonus award.
Based on its assessment of performance, the Committee applied its judgement to determine annual bonus awards, without attaching a weighting to each performance factor or setting a value payable for achievement of each target.
The Group Chief Executives recommendation was taken into account for the Chief Financial Officer.
At the Group level, the executive Directors successfully met or exceeded almost all targets.
Group-wide metrics for determining the executive Directors annual bonus awards: Criteria Target Performance in 2017 Extent to which target has been met Trend in profit for Ratio of total cost to 61% 2016: 64%.
The Group has again delivered record the year and net income 65%.
financial performance in 2017 with good appropriate cost Total compensation management control of its cost base.
control ratio 45% to 49% depending on market conditions.
Investment performance remains strong performance outperformance over 3 over one, three and five years.
Net new business Achieve budgeted new 9.6bn 2016: 1.1bn.
Net new business was well ahead of budget, business flows.
with net inflows across all channels and regions, with the exception of North America, where we saw a large outflow from a single client.
Talent retention Retention of at least 94% retention 2016: Retention of key talent remains above target.
and succession 90% of key talent.
Succession plans for key employees were planning Identify and implement reviewed by the Board in September 2017. succession plans for The new Head of Private Assets was internally key employees.
Diversity and 33% female Exceeded 30% for most We exceeded our 30% target for most of inclusion representation within of 2017, though ended 2017 and have increased our target to 33%.
senior management by the year at 29% 2016: At the year end this ratio had fallen to 29%, the end of 2019 29%.
as a result of minor restructurings within the original target was firm.
Improving diversity further remains 30% representation.
Risk management Key issues considered No significant issues Regulatory change, especially MiFID II and and good conduct by Audit and Risk identified during the PRIIPS, has been successfully managed.
also the Audit and Risk Committee Report page 60 and information on conduct, compliance and risk management in remuneration page 89.
Share price Total shareholder 21%, 43% and 139% Schroders continues to create value for performance returns in excess of return on ordinary shareholders over the long term.
that of the FTSE-100 shares over one, three Index.
and five years versus FTSE-100 returns of 12%, 32% and 57% respectively.
Investment in Delivery against Good progress continues to be made.
The acquisition of Adveq, a future growth strategic priorities.
high-quality specialist private equity solutions business, accelerated the opportunities growth of our Private Assets and Alternatives business and complements existing capabilities.
Included in the key performance indicators on pages 16 and 17.
82 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance In addition to those Group-wide metrics, the performance factors outlined below, which have not been audited, were considered in determining individual Directors remuneration.
Individual performance criteria for determining the executive Directors annual bonus awards: Executive Performance in 2017 and extent to which the Committee judged Director Criteria each performance criterion hadbeen met Peter Overall performance of the Group performance is outlined on the previous page, significantly ahead of Harrison Group budget, with excellent cost control, despite an acceleration in growth initiatives.
Progress in seven identified Progress is being made across all of these growth drivers.
We have seen areas of growth: Asia, North good underlying traction in growing our business in North America, America, Fixed Income, including our partnership with Hartford funds.
In Asia Pacific we recently Multi-asset, New Products received a private fund management licence in China, alongside our existing and Solutions, Technology, relationship with the Bank of Communications.
We are using data and and Private Assets and analytics to gain unique investment insights and to enhance our interactions Alternatives with clients.
Grow our Equities business Our core Equities business has grown and we are building strong capabilities in Sustainability and Data Insights, which differentiate us from peers.
Succession for key roles has been handled well.
Grow our Wealth The acquisition and integration of the wealth management business of Management business C. Hoare & Co. was successfully completed.
The Wealth Management business returned to significant growth in 2017, including net inflows of 2.0bn.
Retain and develop key We had only a limited number of regretted leavers in 2017.
Staff turnover talent and ensure succession remains low, achieved in part through an emphasis on a socially progressive plans are in place for all key approach.
There remains further work to be done on planning senior roles management succession.
Review and strengthen Our ten strategic capabilities describe what matters most to our clients, product strategy distinct from asset class or investment team see page 13.
We launched new strategically important products see page 14.
The new Schroders brand was awarded Digital Brand of the Year at the Funds Europe Awards.
Richard Empower data-driven Revenue reporting was enhanced.
New digital business management Keers decision making dashboards have provided greater financial insight and now need increased adoption across the firm.
Accurate, appropriate, clear Positive feedback from the Audit and Risk Committee, external auditors, and timely reporting analysts, shareholders and other industry bodies.
Deliver the Global Strong leadership of the Global Operations Committee.
A clear emphasis on Operations Committee collaboration and progression, demonstrating insight and a good grasp of strategy the key issues.
The transition to a new investment technology platform is progressing well and will be completed in 2018.
Oversee a strong risk and The Group Risk and Capital Committees are operating well under his control function leadership.
No significant issues were reported in the year, with further improvements to internal risk-assessment processes.
See the Audit and Risk Committee report from page 56.
Cost control and efficiency Costs have been closely monitored and controlled.
A programme of automation and robotics was launched in Spring 2017, freeing up employee resources from straightforward tasks, and will be further developed in 2018.
Criteria met Partially met Not met The metrics and targets outlined above and on the previous page represent the most material criteria by which the Groups performance andthe performance of the executive Directors were assessed.
The other key performance indicators set out in the Strategic report on pages 16and 17 were taken into account, as these are used to measure our performance over the long term.
The Committee members and the Board asa whole also review performance across a broad range of other metrics as part of their normal course of business throughout the year andduring the year end process.
Performance against many of these metrics is disclosed in the half-year and full-year results announcements and inthe Annual Report and Accounts.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Remuneration report continued Variable pay determining vesting of prior LTIP awards audited The LTIP awards granted on 10 March 2014, covering the 2014 to 2017 performance period, are expected to vest on 1 March 2018.
The criteria for determining the extent of vesting are set out below.
The composite index against which earnings per share performance was measured for these awards was set at the time that they were granted, as 60% equities, measured by the Morgan Stanley Capital International MSCI All Country Index, and 40% fixed income, measured by the Barclays Capital Global Aggregate Index.
Despite the strong performance of Schroders since awards were granted, only 50% of awards are expected to vest as the very demanding EPS target will not be met.
Performance measure Maximum % Performance achieved Vesting % of award of award EPS 50 The four-year growth in the MSCI All Countries Index 0 If the growth of adjusted EPS in the fourth year compared to was 70.1% and in the Barclays Capital Global the year prior to grant exceeds the defined composite index by: Aggregate Index was 30.8%.
Weighting them 60% and 40% respectively, growth of the composite index was less than 20% no vesting 54.4%.
Four-year growth in adjusted EPS was 57.4%, equal to 20% 12.5% vests which exceeds the composite index by 3.0% but is between 20-40% straight-line basis insufficient to trigger any vesting.
40% or greater 50% vests NNB cumulative over the four-year performance period: 50 The four-year cumulative NNB from 2014 to 2017 was 50 48.5 billion, which is sufficient to trigger full vesting less than 15 billion no vesting of this part of the LTIP award.
equal to 15 billion 12.5% vests between 15-25 billion straight-line basis 25 billion or greater 50% vests Total expected to vest in relation to 2014 to 2017 performance 50 The Audit and Risk Committee independently reviewed key estimates made by management in respect of material provisions and contingent liabilities, to ensure these are reasonable, and this is reflected in these LTIP calculations.
Value at vesting of prior LTIP awards audited The following table shows, for each Director, the estimated value vesting from LTIP awards granted on 10 March 2014, based on the average closing mid-market share price over the three months ended 31 December 2017 and the expected vesting percentage shown above.
For each executive Director, the total value that is expected to vest is reflected in the single total remuneration figures on page 79.
Proportion expected Grant date face Estimated total value to vest in relation to Estimated valueof LTIP award Expected date of LTIP award shares 2014-2017 Number of shares valuevesting Individual Date of grant 000 ofvesting 000 performance expected to vest 000 Richard Keers 10 March 2014 500 1 March 2018 644 50% 9,293 322 Michael Dobson 10 March 2014 800 1 March 2018 1,031 28% 8,364 290 Philip Mallinckrodt 10 March 2014 500 1 March 2018 608 40% 9,683 241 The proportion expected to vest for Michael Dobson and Philip Mallinckrodt have been reduced pro-rata for the proportion of the performance period that each of them remained an employee of the Group.
Fixed pay retirement benefits audited The following table gives details of retirement benefits provided to executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
For the executive Directors, the sum of employer contributions and cash in lieu each year is reflected in the single total remuneration figures on page 79.
Employer contributions represent contributions paid into defined contribution DC pension arrangements during the year and exclude any contributions made by the Directors.
There has been no defined benefit DB pension accrual since 30 April 2011.
Accrued DB pensions are subject to actuarial reduction on early retirement so there is no enhanced benefit entitlement in these circumstances.
Accrued DB pension at Normal 2017 employer 2017 cash in lieu 2017 retirement 2016 employer 2016 cash in lieu 2016 retirement 31December retirement 1 1 2 000 contributions of pension benefits total contributions of pension benefits total 2017 age Peter Harrison 10 35 45 20 25 45 60 Richard Keers 45 45 10 35 45 60 Philip Mallinckrodt 8 8 40 40 77 60 1.
Peter Harrison and Richard Keers received a combination of employer contributions to the Groups DC pension arrangement and cash in lieu of pension contributions.
Philip Mallinckrodt received cash in lieu of pension during the period when he served as an executive Director.
Normal retirement age is the earliest age at which a Director can elect to draw their pension under the rules of the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme without the need to seek the consent of the Company or the pension scheme trustee.
84 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Fees from external appointments The executive Directors are permitted to retain for their own benefit fees they receive from any external non-executive directorships, provided the directorships do not relate to any interest held by the Group.
Richard Keers served as a non-executive member of the Franchise Board of Lloyds throughout 2017, for which he received fees of 77,500, including in respect of his membership and chairmanship of the Franchise Boards audit committee during the year.
These fees do not relate to the Group and so are not included in the single total remuneration figures on page 79.
Executive Director board changes in 2017 and treatment of remuneration audited On 1 March 2017, Philip Mallinckrodt relinquished his executive responsibilities, after more than 20 years with Schroders.
As disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, he waived his contractual notice period and was not eligible for a bonus in respect of his contribution during the period of 2017 that he was Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Management.
His annual bonus award of 1.75m in respect of his contribution during 2016 was subject to standard deferral, via the ECP awards shown on page 86, and includes malus and clawback terms.
As a member of the principal shareholder group, he continues on the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director.
Information on his fees and benefits in that role can be found below.
The Committee considered Philips long service, his contribution to the Group and the significant value created for shareholders.
In light of this, the Committee exercised its discretion under the rules of the ECP and LTIP to allow Philip to retain his unvested awards, outlined on pages 87 and 88, when his executive role with the Company came to an end.
Once vested, each award will be exercisable within a 12-month period following vesting.
These awards remain subject to malus and clawback terms.
His unvested ECP awards result from the deferral of bonuses relating to 2016 and prior years.
The vesting of LTIP awards remains subject to the satisfaction of the associated performance conditions and these awards have been reduced pro-rata for the proportion of the performance period that he remained an employee of the Group see page 88.
Non-executive Directors remuneration audited The total remuneration of each of the non-executive Directors for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is set out below.
2017 2016 Committee Committee Taxable Committee Committee Taxable 1 1 000 Basic fee chairman member SID benefits Total Basic fee chairman member SID benefits Total Michael Dobson 625 8 633 465 8 473 Robin Buchanan 75 40 115 70 40 110 Rhian Davies 75 25 20 120 70 17 20 107 Rakhi Goss-Custard 75 75 Lord Howard 75 20 40 15 150 70 20 40 10 140 Ian King 75 9 84 Philip Mallinckrodt 63 1 64 Nichola Pease 75 40 115 70 40 110 Bruno Schroder 103 3 106 98 2 100 1.
The remuneration reported for Michael Dobson for 2016 was paid for the period that he was Chairman.
Ian King and Rakhi Goss-Custard were appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2017 and on 1 March 2017 Philip Mallinckrodt relinquished his executive responsibilities and continued on the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director.
On appointment as nonexecutive Directors their fees were set at the same level as for other non-executive Directors.
The benefits for Michael Dobson are private healthcare and medical benefits for him and his family and occasional private use of a driver.
Benefits for Philip Mallinckrodt are private healthcare for part of 2017 under the transitional arrangements after he relinquished his executive responsibilities.
Benefits for Bruno Schroder are private healthcare and medical benefits.
Michael Dobson and Philip Mallinckrodt each received an LTIP award on 10 March 2014, when they were in executive roles on the Board.
These LTIP awards are expected to vest on 1 March 2018.
The estimated value expected to vest to Michael and Philip are 290,000 and 241,000 respectively see page 84.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Remuneration report continued Non-executive Directors fees are as shown below.
Board member fees were increased with effect from 1 July 2017 from 70,000 to 80,000, having last been increased in 2011.
At the same time, the Senior Independent Directors fee increased from 10,000 to 20,000, having not been increased since it was introduced in 2011.
Chairman 625,000 1 Board member 80,000 Senior Independent Director 20,000 2 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 25,000 Audit and Risk Committee member 20,000 Nominations Committee Chairman nil Nominations Committee member nil 2 Remuneration Committee Chairman 20,000 Remuneration Committee member 20,000 1.
Bruno Schroder also receives an additional annual fee of 28,000 for services to the Group.
In addition to the Committee membership fee.
ECP and LTIP awards granted during 2017 audited The following awards under the ECP were granted to Directors on 6 March 2017 in respect of deferred bonuses for performance during 2016.
Nofurther performance conditions need to be met for awards to vest but ECP awards normally require the participant to remain in employment with the Group until the third anniversary of grant in order to vest in full.
ECP fund awards are conditional rights to receive a cash sum based on the value of a notional investment in a range of Schroders funds.
ECP share awards were granted as nil-cost options.
These awards were included in 2016 in the single total remuneration figures disclosed last year and form part of the prior year value shown in this years single total remuneration figures on page 79.
They are also shown in the tables of Directors rights under fund and share awards on pages 87 and 88.
Face value at grant 000 Fund Share Total ECP Share price Number of Individual Basis of award granted awards awards award atgrant shares Performance conditions Peter Harrison 1,350 1,350 2,700 30.71 43,959 Deferral of bonus awarded for Awarded for performance in2016.
No Richard Keers 594 594 1,188 30.71 19,335 performance in2016 further performance conditions apply.
Philip Mallinckrodt 419 419 838 22.54 18,580 The following awards under the LTIP were granted to Directors on 6 March 2017 as nil-cost options.
These awards do not appear in the single total remuneration figure on page 79 as they are subject to performance conditions and will not vest until 2021.
They are shown in the table ofDirectors rights under share awards on page 88.
Basis of award % of face value that granted as % Vesting maximum would vest at Face value at grant Share price Number of End of performance 1 Individual ofsalary as % of face value threshold 000 at grant shares period Peter Harrison 120 100 25 600 30.71 19,537 31 December 2020 Richard Keers 107 100 25 400 30.71 13,025 31 December 2020 1.
Performance under both the EPS and NNB performance measures at the threshold level to achieve non-zero vesting.
All ECP share awards and LTIP awards were granted over ordinary shares, except for the award granted to Philip Mallinckrodt, which was granted over non-voting ordinary shares.
The share price used to determine the number of shares under each ECP share award and LTIP award isthe mid-market closing share price on the last trading day prior to the date of grant and this is the price used to calculate the face value shown.
The vesting of the LTIP awards is subject to the performance conditions set out on page 84.
The composite index against which EPS performance will be measured for these awards is as follows: Weighting Index % Morgan Stanley Capital International All Countries Asia Pacific 15.0 Morgan Stanley Capital International Emerging Markets 7.5 Morgan Stanley Capital International All Countries World 15.0 Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe 5.0 FTSE All Share 7.5 Barclays Capital Global Aggregate 50.0 86 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017
