GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Implementation of Remuneration Policy during 2017 and leaver arrangements for Brad Gordon Brad Gordon received a 3% increase in his salary effective 1 January 2017 bringing his salary to 489,250 per annum.
Having served in the role of Chief Executive Officer for the entire financial year, Brad Gordon was eligible for an STI award in respect of 2017 performance.
Taking into account both Company-wide and individual performance, the Committee approved a payment of 74% of salary.
Further details as regards the 2017 STI assessment are provided on pages 86 to 87.
MICHAEL KENYON On long-term incentives, the final tranche of Brads 2013 SOP awards COMPENSATION COMMITTEE CHAIR lapsed based on relative TSR performance to 20 August 2017.
No other long-term incentive awards were eligible to vest during the year.
Following Dear shareholders, shareholder approval of the revised LTIP rules at the 2017 AGM, Brad On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors received an LTIP award in the form of nil-cost options representing 400% Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017. of base salary on 26 April 2017.
These awards, along with outstanding awards made in February 2015 and February 2016, lapsed upon Brads 2017 was a challenging year for the Company following the imposition resignation from the Company.
of the concentrate export ban towards the start of the year.
Despite the challenging operating environment and variety of factors outside Mr Gordon was not eligible for any further payments following his managements control, overall performance during the year was resilient.
2017 AISC was the lowest level ever achieved by Acacia, coming in c. 9% 2015 and 2016 STI target disclosure lower than in 2016 and below full year guidance.
Gold production was In line with the commitment made last year to retrospective disclosure robust, although somewhat impacted by the transitioning to reduced of STI targets, this report contains full retrospective disclosure of targets operations at Bulyanhulu, with an outturn being c. 7% below 2016 levels, applying to the 2015 and 2016 STIs, which are no longer deemed to be whilst free cash flow fell short of the stretching targets set at the start commercially sensitive given developments over 2017. of the year.
In light of these material events, the Committee reassessed the targets around which the 2017 STI was assessed to help ensure the Remuneration Policy considerations bonus continued to reinforce the best outcome for shareholders during The Committee submitted a revised Remuneration Policy to shareholders the period.
More details around the 2017 STI outcome can be found at the 2017 AGM, receiving 88% support for the relevant resolution.
on pages 86 to 87 of this report.
Payments made during 2017 were made in accordance with this new policy which is repeated on pages 78 to 83 of this report for ease As announced to the market on 2 November 2017, Brad Gordon stepped of reference.
down from his role as Chief Executive Officer of Acacia on 31 December 2017 following four successful years with the Company.
Peter Geleta, In terms of wider remuneration practices, last year we enhanced our previously Head of People, has taken on the role of Interim Chief shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors, introduced the flexibility Executive Officer effective 1 January 2018. to grant executive long-term incentive awards in the form of nil-cost options and extended the LTIP performance period from three to five Implementation of policy for 2018 Peter Geleta years.
The Committee continues to monitor developments in the context As Interim Chief Executive Officer, with effect from 1 January 2018 of mandatory executive bonus deferral.
Again, this year the Committee Peter Geleta will receive a salary of 400,000 per annum.
Mr Geleta will has refrained from introducing mandatory bonus deferral, in light of the receive a pension contribution of 15% of salary and be entitled to receive five year horizon of the LTIP.
The Committee believes that the five year company benefits including a car allowance and medical cover.
performance period for LTIP awards continues to ensure that a significant Mr Geleta will be eligible for an STI award of up to 150% of salary based proportion of executive pay remains at risk over the longer term and that on a combination of Group and individual performance, weighted 80% executives remain sufficiently aligned with shareholders, whilst ensuring and 20% respectively.
The Committee will continue to adopt strenuous that executives remain sufficiently motivated and talent retained, performance requirements for the vesting of bonus awards to ensure that particularly given the on-going challenges faced by the Company.
vesting levels remain focused on the achievement of target and above Lastly, as required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and target performance, with further details to be provided in next years Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the Annual Report on Remuneration.
remaining content of this Remuneration Report is divided into the For 2018, Peter Geleta will be made an LTIP award over nil-cost options Directors Remuneration Policy pages 78 to 83 and the Annual Report representing 400% of salary, with vesting subject to five-year relative TSR on Remuneration for 2017 pages 84 to 91. performance against a group of listed gold miners.
Further details on this award are included later in this report.
MICHAEL KENYON CHAIR OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 77 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Policy for Executive Directors, which shareholders approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017, and which came into effect from that date.
Summary table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Fixed remuneration Base salary Pension Benefits Purpose To provide an appropriately competitive level of base To help provide To provide benefits which are competitive in the salary with due regard to the size and nature of the for an appropriate market in which the individual is employed.
responsibilities of each role, as well as an individual retirement benefit.
Operation Reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective Executive Directors Executive Directors receive benefits, which 1 January and made at the discretion of the receive contributions usually include the provision of a company car Compensation Committee.
into a personal or cash alternative, health and life insurance, pension scheme liability insurance, fitness club membership Salaries are benchmarked against international gold of their choice, or and professional membership: however, the mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies a cash supplement Compensation Committee retains discretion to of similar size and complexity.
of commensurate approve any other form of benefit that it deems The Compensation Committee also takes into value.
appropriate to award depending on individual account corporate and individual performance and circumstances.
For example, relocation allowances The Group does not experience: general market conditions: and salary and international transfer-related benefits are operate any defined increases applied within the Company as a whole.
often provided for, when required, in line with benefit schemes.
general industry practices for the recruitment of international employees.
Opportunity To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors Executive Directors The value of benefits will generally be assessed and other employees, no maximum salary is set receive pension on the basis of market norms at the relevant under the Remuneration Policy.
It is not anticipated contributions or point in time.
that salary increases for Executive Directors will an equivalent cash The Compensation Committee retains the exceed those of the wider workforce over the period supplement equal discretion to approve a higher total cost of benefits during which this Remuneration Policy is effective.
to a percentage of in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider gross base salary or in circumstances where factors outside the employee population, the Committee will provide in line with market Companys control have changed materially the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report norms at the relevant e. g. increases in medical coverage inflation.
Short-Term Incentive STI Purpose To reinforce the delivery of key short-term operational objectives on an annual basis in order to promote performance as regards business priorities for each financial year in the context of individual and Company performance.
Operation Performance measure weightings and targets are set at the start of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities.
At the end of the year, the Compensation Committee determines the extent to which targets have been achieved, taking into account Company-wide performance and the individual performance of each Executive Director.
STI payments are delivered in cash and are subject to appropriate clawback provisions, further details of which are included as a note to the policy table.
Opportunity The STI provides Executive Directors with an annual bonus opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary, with target bonus opportunity of up to 100% of base salary, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee.
Performance Bonus outcomes are assessed by the Compensation Committee on a scorecard assessment, based on the achievement measures of the targets set for each performance measure and the Committees broad assessment of Company performance.
Performance measures are based on challenging budget and stretch targets for Company-wide financial and operational performance and, where appropriate, individual performance.
Performance measures may include financial, operational, growth, production, cost and capital expenditure control and sustainability metrics.
Performance measures are selected annually to reflect key strategic initiatives and matters underpinning the key financial and non-financial performance indicators used to manage performance across the Acacia Group.
Performance measures will be weighted appropriately each year according to the business plan.
Weightings of performance measures may vary, typically up to 10% and 50%, with the range of performance required under each measure calibrated to reflect the Companys annual published guidance range, particularly as regards production, cash costs and capital expenditure.
Whilst performance measures, weightings and targets for any given year will not be disclosed on a prospective basis due to commercial sensitivities, the Compensation Committee aims to provide such details retrospectively as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration, unless on-going commercial sensitivities discourage such disclosures.
78 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Awards of conditional shares, nil-cost options or restricted stock units RSUs may be granted annually, with the maximum value that may be awarded to each Executive Director defined as a percentage of base salary at the date of grant.
Vesting is based on Acacias corporate performance over a period of not less than three years.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards will lapse.
Awards under the LTIP are subject to malus and clawback provisions, further details of which are included as a note to the policy table.
Opportunity The LTIP permits a maximum award with a value equal to 400% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
The Committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances only.
Such circumstances would include, for example, specific recruitment or retention scenarios.
The exercise of this discretion would be assessed in each case on the circumstances in question.
The level of LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors each year is determined by the Committee, within the limits set out above, with reference to a range of factors including individual performance ratings.
Dividends accrue on unvested LTIP awards over the vesting period and are released, to the extent the LTIP award vests, on the date of release.
Performance Subject to continued employment and Acacias relative TSR performance over the performance period when compared to a measures relevant listed index currently comprising the constituents of the EMIX formerly Euromoney Global Gold Index.
TSR performance must be at least equal to that of the TSR comparator group in order to receive any payment under LTIP awards, at which level 25% of the maximum award will vest.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the performance period, awards will lapse.
The Compensation Committee reviews the comparator group of international gold miners against which TSR performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains appropriate.
The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine the treatment of comparators in the event of their delisting or otherwise in any event which, in the opinion of the Committee, compromises the suitability of a company as a comparator for Acacia.
Additionally, the Committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of awards vesting in the event that the achievement against the performance condition is not a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
More generally, the performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain aligned with shareholder interests and, in this regard, the Committee retains discretion to employ performance measures other than TSR to the LTIP in order to allow for performance assessments to evolve over time.
Share Option Plan SOP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Whilst the LTIP is expected to be used as the main long-term incentive for Executive Directors going forward, the Committee retains the ability to grant stock options under the SOP where appropriate, such as in recruitment or retention scenarios.
The Compensation Committee will set a vesting period for SOP awards appropriate to the circumstances at the time of grant.
Historically, this has included vesting in equal parts over four years or vesting after three years.
All awards expire seven years from the date of grant.
There are no clawback provisions included under the SOP.
Opportunity The SOP permits a maximum share option award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
In the event that a stock option award was used for annual incentive purposes, such awards would ordinarily be granted at a target level equal to 150% of base salary at the time of grant.
In this regard, the Committee would look to use an appropriate valuation model, for example, the Black-Scholes model, for purposes of ascertaining the fair value of any award made.
Performance The Compensation Committee determines the performance metrics applying to share option awards as appropriate to the measures circumstances at the time of grant, based on the purpose of making such award, i. e. whether for recruitment, retention or as a matter of annual performance incentive.
Generally, in the event that the Committee were to grant an SOP award as an incentive, it would look to apply an appropriate performance condition.
Shareholding guidelines Purpose To align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the Company.
Operation Executive Directors are required to establish a shareholding equivalent to four times base salary by retaining 50% of vested awards net of tax until the guideline has been met.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 79 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis Use of Compensation Committee discretions The chart below provides an estimate of the potential future reward Generally, it is not possible for any remuneration policy to pre-empt opportunity for the Interim CEO, and the potential split between the every possible scenario and for this reason the Compensation different elements of remuneration under three different performance Committee has been provided with the ability to apply various discretions scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
and judgements in order to ensure the achievement of fair outcomes and to maintain the flexibility required to balance the interests of individuals Potential reward opportunities are based on the Remuneration Policy.
In and those of the Company.
For example, the Compensation Committee each scenario, the STI and LTIP are based on the maximum opportunities may be required to exercise discretion when determining whether or not in 2018 applied to the CEOs 2018 salary.
From 2017 onwards, the LTIP the outcomes of performance measures and targets applicable to awards granted in a year will not normally vest until at least the fifth incentive plans are fair in context, or if realities encourage the use of anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value excludes the upward or downward adjustments.
By means of illustration, this may be impact of share price movement.
the case as a result of the impact of wider socio-economic or political The minimum scenario reflects the 2018 base salary, pension and factors or market-wide developments that were generally unforeseeable estimated benefits i. e. fixed remuneration which are the only elements or remote at the time of setting performance measures, but nonetheless of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration package not linked occur during a performance period.
It is for such reasons that the to performance.
Compensation Committee retains a number of discretions for the operation of all incentive schemes STI, LTIP and SOP including, but not The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target limited to, the ability to determine the following: STI 75% of salary and half of the LTIP vesting 200% of salary.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum The timing of grant and size of awards.
payout under all incentives 150% of salary under the STI and full vesting of an LTIP award 400% of base salary.
Appropriate treatment of vesting of awards in the context of restructurings and or takeovers.
Peter Geleta Appropriate adjustments to awards in the event of variations to the 000 Companys share capital.
2,698 Absent specific bad leaver scenarios, the ability to determine and designate leavers as good leavers in order to determine appropriate 1,598 59% treatment of awards in exit scenarios.
50% Treatment, size and grant of awards in a recruitment context.
22% 498 19% 100% 31% 18% The application, scope, weighting and targets for applicable performance Minimum On-target Maximum measures and performance conditions from time to time, including any amendments to existing performance measures conditions and Fixed remuneration related targets.
Annual bonus Long-term incentives Whilst it may not be possible to give an exhaustive list of Compensation Committee discretions, the exercise of discretions and the rationale underpinning their use, if any, will generally be provided in context, as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Malus and clawback Awards under the STI and the LTIP are subject to clawback and, in respect of the LTIP from 2017, malus provisions which can be applied to both vested and unvested awards.
Clawback provisions will apply for a period of up to one year from the end of the performance period.
Circumstances in which malus and clawback may be applied include misconduct and misstatement.
Approach to recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director the Compensation Committee aims to offer a package that is sufficiently competitive, to attract, motivate and retain candidates of the calibre and experience required to run our business.
This will generally be determined in each case not only in the context of the skills required for a position and those of each candidate, but also on the basis of recruitment trends within the global mining industry and any additional considerations relevant to the recruitment of executives.
In addition, our approach to recruitment will also depend on whether we use external recruitment or internal promotion routes.
80 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE External recruitment In determining appropriate remuneration for an external candidate, the Compensation Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
For such purposes, the Compensation Committee may make use of all of the existing components of the Remuneration Policy as follows: Maximum annual Component Approach grant value Fixed Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, N A remuneration experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash supplement, which is N A equivalent to that received by existing executives and in line with market norms.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to the N A provision of a company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance and any necessary relocation expenses.
Variable STI The STI described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy will apply 150% of salary remuneration to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive.
1 LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other executives, 400% of salary as described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 SOP New appointees may be granted awards under the SOP, as described in the Summary Table for 200% of salary Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 A ward can be higher in circumstances deemed by the Committee to be exceptional, i. e. where it is necessary to buy out incentive arrangements or make offers equivalent to sign-on bonuses.
The Compensation Committee may also make an award under the terms Approach to Executive Director exit arrangements of one of the Companys incentive plans outlined above in respect of a Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving termination, are carefully considered by the Compensation Committee a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, quality required to manage the Company.
The Committee considers the likelihood of those conditions being met and the term remaining to appointments of an indefinite term and with a notice period of one year their vesting.
In addition, where candidates are recruited from overseas, to be appropriate.
The service contract used for the Companys current the Committee may be required to consider additional benefits received Interim CEO, being the sole Executive Director at present, provides for in the home jurisdiction or arrange for a form of substitution of such compensation of 12 months salary in the event of early termination.
benefits in addition to the payment of suitable relocation allowances.
The Company has the discretion to pay such compensation in The Compensation Committee may also consider it appropriate to grant instalments, requiring the Executive Director to mitigate loss i. e. by an award under a structure not included in the Remuneration Policy, gaining new employment over the relevant period, or in a lump sum.
exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R where In respect of the Interim CEO, this discretion is not included in his necessary.
Such an award would include, for example, a sign-on legacy contract.
The Compensation Committee confirms that any arrangement specifically established to recruit an individual would take the form of If notice to terminate is served by either the Executive Director or the performance-related variable remuneration.
On recruitment, the value Company, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, of this remuneration would be capped at the limits contained in the LTIP benefits and pension for the duration of his her notice period during and SOP or the value of awards which the individual had to surrender which the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil his her in order to be recruited, whichever is the greater.
The policy that exists current duties or may assign a period of garden leave, depending on the for current Executive Directors would then apply to the balance of the circumstances in question.
The service contract used for any new hire individuals remuneration package.
In addition, the Compensation would be based on similar terms.
The Interim CEOs service contract is Committee does not envisage that a cash payment such available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
as a golden hello would be offered.
Generally, in an exit scenario the Company will honour all contractual Internal promotion entitlements, this being a matter required by the operation of law, and In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal for individuals who relocated from overseas, reasonable relocation costs promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the policy used for will be considered as appropriate in the circumstances.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 81 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The treatment of incentive arrangements in exit scenarios are considered composition generally, as a result of operational or market on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual developments, or other developments in the business, such as entry terms of the individual, the circumstances of the exit and any applicable into new markets or a restructuring of the business.
In any event, when duty to mitigate.
Generally, the payment of incentives as part of exit exercising such discretion the Compensation Committee would always arrangements is determined on the basis of good leaver bad leaver and recognise and take into account the balance of shareholder interests change of control scenarios, subject to Committee discretions, as follows: and those of the departing individual.
STI Executive Director external appointments There is no automatic eligibility for payment under the STI.
The It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept nonCommittee may exercise discretion to award a bonus for the performance executive directorships of other quoted companies for which they would year.
Such discretion would generally only be used in good leaver normally be allowed to retain fees.
Any such directorships must be scenarios.
If an award is made, the award will be made on a pro-rata formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Currently, no such basis for the period of time served to the agreed termination date.
Any positions are held by the Companys sole Executive Director.
STI payment would be subject to applicable STI performance measure Approach to Non-Executive Director remuneration and target assessments for the year in question.
The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with LTIP pre-2017 and SOP broad commercial, international and other experience relevant to mining In the event of a Directors resignation, all outstanding awards will lapse.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the For good leavers, vesting of LTIP awards is typically calculated based on recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
performance to the end of the relevant performance period with awards Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to pro-rated to reflect time employed, although the Committee may exercise annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM in accordance with discretion to waive time pro-rating of award in certain circumstances.
the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Upon the Stock options for good leavers vest in full subject to the vesting schedule recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee, they may determined at grant.
Any stock options which remain unexercised six be re-appointed for two additional terms of three years, subject to their months following the vesting date will lapse.
continuing to satisfy requirements for continuing appointment and, again, LTIP 2017 onwards subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The terms of engagement As executive LTIP awards made from 2017 onwards have five-year of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
performance and vesting periods, the treatment of awards held by These letters do not contain any provision for compensation for early leavers will depend on the period elapsed from the date of grant.
Requirements for notice periods are reviewed on leaver conditions are drafted to ensure broad consistency of leavers with a case by case basis.
All letters of appointment for Non-Executive market norms for a more traditional LTIP with a three-year performance Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
period, and two-year holding period.
Non-Executive Director remuneration primarily focuses on the payment If a Director leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date of fees.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of grant and is a bad leaver, awards will lapse.
For good leavers within of the incentive plans available to Executive Directors.
However, the first 36 months from the date of grant, vesting of LTIP awards will Non-Executive Directors may participate in the Companys DSU Plan.
typically be calculated based on performance to the end of the relevant This plan provides Non-Executive Directors with the option to receive performance period with awards pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash first 36 months from grant elapsed at the time of leaving and released payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the at the normal date, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market value of the Companys shares at the time Awards for which more than 36 months have elapsed will lapse only in of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context the event of misconduct on the part of the Director.
In all other of the Companys share price until the time of payment.
This plan was scenarios, awards will continue in the plan with no time-based reduction, adopted by the Company in 2012 to address certain equivalent practices but with vesting based on performance to the end of the relevant and trends of North American mining companies to ensure that our performance period and released at the normal date, unless otherwise practices for Non-Executive Director compensation structures remain determined by the Committee.
flexible and competitive against our global peers.
DSUs are granted On a change of control, outstanding LTIP awards will vest according to annually, usually in April of each year.
In addition, to align Non-Executive performance up to the date of the event and be subject to a time-based Director interests with shareholders, the Company has adopted reduction if such awards are less than 36 months from the grant date, Non-Executive Director shareholding guidelines for its independent unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Alternatively, Acacia awards Non-Executive Directors, which require relevant individuals to acquire may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer where agreed.
a minimum shareholding equivalent to their annual base fee within five years from election to the Board, which may be satisfied through Summary termination, termination for misconduct or gross negligence the purchase of Acacia Ordinary Shares or by DSUs holdings.
or termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination are all examples of bad leaver scenarios.
Good leavers include Details as regards current outstanding awards under the DSU Plan and individuals who have left the Company as a result of retirement, injury, Acacia Ordinary Shares currently held by Non-Executive Directors are disability or death.
In addition, the Compensation Committee retains provided on page 90. the discretion to determine any leaver that is not a bad leaver as a good leaver.
This discretion is viewed as necessary by the Company given the vast range of scenarios in which an individual may leave the Company where conduct is not at issue.
Whilst it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of such scenarios, examples would include circumstances in which the Board determines a need to change the Companys strategic direction or focus, or is required to review Board and management 82 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Summary table for Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Fees Purpose To attract and retain candidates with the required skill and experience to form part of the Board and to ensure fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are competitive and comparable with other companies of equivalent size and complexity operating within the global mining industry.
Operation The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 April each year.
Fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Compensation Committee, while the base fee and any other fee payable to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman of the Board on behalf of the Board.
In addition to the base fee, additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and as Chair of any of the Boards Committees Audit, Compensation, EHS&S, Nomination & Governance and for individual membership of such Committees.
These additional fees are also reviewed annually, with any adjustment effective 1 April each year.
In the event that the Board requires the formation of an additional Board Committee, fees for the Chair and membership of such Committee will be determined by the Board at the time.
No base fee or fee for membership of Board Committees is payable to Non-Executive Directors appointed by Barrick pursuant to the nomination rights contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Director fee levels are benchmarked against international gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, responsibility, and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
Opportunity Non-Executive Director fee increases are set in response to the outcome of the annual fee review.
Fees for the year ending 31 December 2017 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all Directors provided in the Companys Articles of Association is 3,000,000.
Deferred Share Unit Plan DSU Plan Purpose To ensure Acacia Non-Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and competitive against global peers.
Operation Non-Executive Directors can receive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
The value of additional DSUs is credited to reflect dividends paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares over the period of participation.
Cash payments become payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Cash payments are calculated by reference to the fair market value of Acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in Acacias share price until payment.
Awards lapse in the event that an individual is summarily terminated for: i breach of contract: ii breach of Directors duties: or iii misconduct, or if an individual resigns in circumstances justifying summary termination.
Opportunity Non-Executive Directors can waive up to 100% of their annual fee.
Approach to recruitment of Non-Executive Directors In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the Board will utilise the Remuneration Policy summarised in the table entitled Summary Table for Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy, above.
A base fee which is aligned with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Director or as Chair of any of the Boards Committees and for individual membership of such Committees.
Non-Executive Directors would also be eligible to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
Approach to Non-Executive Director exit arrangements As regards Non-Executive Director resignation, retirement or termination, base fee and any additional fees would be payable to the resignation retirement termination date.
In respect of DSU awards, save in the case of summary termination, termination for gross misconduct or termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination, DSU awards vest in full on leaving office, whereby the relevant cash payment made in respect of awards is determined by reference to the fair market value of an Acacia Ordinary Share at the time of payment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 83 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report for 2017 Compensation Committee membership in 2017 Advisers As of 31 December 2017, the Compensation Committee comprised three During the year, the Committee received independent advice on Non-Executive Directors, all of whom were, and remain, independent: executive compensation matters from Mercer which forms part of the MMC group of companies.
Mercer was first appointed by the Michael Kenyon Chair Compensation Committee in 2010 and retained during the year.
Steve Lucas The Compensation Committee evaluates the support provided by its Rachel English advisers annually and is comfortable that the Mercer team provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have Peter Tomsett served on the Committee until his retirement from the any connections with the Company that may impair its independence.
Mercer is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct The following individuals also attended meetings by invitation during the for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at year and provided information to the Committee to enable it to make www.
com informed decisions: In 2017, Mercer provided independent advice on trends and Brad Gordon, former Chief Executive Officer developments and reporting regulations, and attended the Compensation Peter Geleta, Head of People Interim Chief Executive Officer Committee meetings.
Mercer does not advise the Company on any issues outside compensation and governance thereof.
Mercers total No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is being fees for the provision of remuneration services in 2017 were 104,720 determined.
The Compensation Committee met four times during the on the basis of time and materials.
Other than advice on remuneration, year and details of members attendance at meetings are provided on no other services were provided by Mercer or any other part of the MMC page 68.
An overview of Committee activities during the year is provided group of companies.
The Committee also received legal advice from as part of the Committee Chairs introduction to this report.
Travers Smith LLP as regards certain remuneration practices during the year, the total fees for which equalled 25,836.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment As at 31 December 2017, Directors current appointments were as follows: Date of current service contract Unexpired term as of letter of appointment 31 December 2017 Executive Director 1 Brad Gordon 21 August 2013 N A Non-Executive Directors Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2015 6 months Rachel English 23 October 2016 22 months Andre Falzon 18 April 2016 16 months Stephen Galbraith 18 April 2016 16 months Michael Kenyon 18 April 2016 16 months Steve Lucas 23 October 2016 22 months 1 Brad Gordon ceased to be a Director on 31 December 2017.
84 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Single total figure of remuneration for Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the financial years ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017.
An overview of fees payable for 2017 is provided on page 86.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive all or some of their annual fees in DSUs, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSU Plan.
Further details of this plan are provided on page 82.
Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to Barricks nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement Kelvin Dushnisky and Stephen Galbraith do not receive any fees in respect of their appointment.
2 A b reakdown of 2017 taxable benefits is provided below: Car allowance Medical Total Brad Gordon 36,924 5,838 42,762 3 T his represents the short-term incentive payable in cash for annual performance.
Details as regards the performance assessment applicable to the CEO 2017 STI award are provided on page 86.
4 The final quarter of the 2013 SOP award lapsed in full during the year.
5 No DSU elections were made by any Non-Executive Directors in 2017.
6 Peter Tomsett stepped down from the Board in April 2017.
7 Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu stepped down from the Board in July 2017.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 85 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Director salaries Brad Gordon received a 3% increase in his salary effective 1 January 2017 bringing his salary to 489,250 per annum.
As explained in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration, Mr Gordons base salary was re-instated to 475,000 at the end of 2016 for purposes of assessing 2017 salary increases and therefore the amount of 489,250 is a 3% increase on the re-instated 2016 salary.
Non-Executive Director fees For the year ending 31 December 2017, no fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, appointed by Barrick pursuant to its nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Director fees are assessed in April each year.
The table below reflects fees payable in respect of 2017, effective as of 1 April 2017.
Fee component Amount Base fee 85,000 Senior Independent Director fee 25,000 Chair of Audit Committee fee 20,000 Chair of Compensation Committee, EHS&S Committee, and Nomination & Governance Committee fee 15,000 Board Committee membership fee 5,000 In addition to the above fees, effective July 2017 the Acacia Board established an additional committee to deal with the on-going challenges in the Tanzanian operating environment.
Following careful consideration, the Board approved additional fees of 1,500 and 2,300 payable per meeting of this committee to each member and the Chairman respectively.
The Board believes that such fees represent reasonable fees due in connection with the assumption of additional responsibilities arising from the appointment to this committee.
Executive Directors Short-Term Incentive awards For the year ending 31 December 2017, Executive Director STI awards were earned on the basis of Company-wide performance 80%, this being representative of the overall leadership, management and performance of an individual holding this position and also include a component to assess individual performance 20%.
Company-wide performance measures continue to focus on the core metrics which we use to assess performance as regards safety, production, cost control and profit generation.
These performance metrics were assessed on the basis of individual weightings and in line with a range of performance targets to provide for threshold, target and maximum performance, as outlined in the table opposite.
The Committee has given careful consideration to the retrospective disclosure of 2017 annual bonus targets and considers that these remain commercially sensitive at this time.
It is intended that targets will be disclosed within two years of the relevant bonus year, with the Committee providing disclosure of both the 2015 and 2016 annual bonus targets at the end of this report on page 91.
Having served in the role of Chief Executive Officer for the entire financial year, the Committee determined that Brad Gordon was eligible for an STI award in respect of 2017 performance.
Despite the challenging operating environment and variety of factors outside managements control, overall performance during the year was resilient.
2017 AISC was the lowest level ever achieved by Acacia, coming in c. 9% lower than in 2016 and below full year guidance.
Gold production was robust, although somewhat impacted by the transitioning to reduced operations at Bulyanhulu, with an outturn being c. 7% below 2016 levels, whilst free cash flow fell short of the stretching targets set at the start of the year.
From a safety perspective, 2017 saw 39% improvement in our Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR, with strong performance under other safety KPIs and the roll-out of a number of important occupational health and safety initiatives.
As a Company, we continue to target zero injuries and so the improvement in safety performance shown in 2017 was particularly pleasing.
Given the impact of the Tanzanian concentrate export ban, the Committee elected to make a number of adjustments to the production, cash flow and AISC outturns to ensure the targets were of broadly equivalent difficulty to those set at the start of the year and remained motivational for participants.
Adjustments took into account Bulyanhulus move to reduced operations in September and moving Buzwagi to dor-only production for the final four months of the year.
Against these adjusted figures, Company-wide performance was assessed as 66.9% overall, equivalent to 54% of the CEOs salary following the application of the Company STI weighting.
With the on-going concentrate export ban, the Committee was unable to assess many of the individual performance objectives relating to Group strategy.
For 2017 the Committee has made a holistic assessment of Brads contribution during the year, with key achievements including his strong stakeholder management, team leadership and cost management.
Against this backdrop, the Board has assessed Brads personal performance levels as equivalent to 20% of base salary overall.
When combined with the assessment of Company-wide performance, this equates to a bonus rating of 74% of base salary, compared to a target of 100%.
86 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE 2017 Company STI scorecard assessment Overall 2017 Scorecard Strategic focus KPI Weighting Performance assessment Outcome Rating % Safety Total Reportable Injury 10% Base 50% : 2016 performance 1 Frequency Rate TRIFR Target 100% : 10% improvement on base 0.45 18.1% Stretch 150% : 20% improvement on base Wall 200% : 30% improvement on base Production Ounces of gold 30% Base 30% : 95% of target 2 produced oz Target 50% : 100% of target 775,883 12.6% Stretch 150% : 103% of target Wall 200% : 106% of target 3 Profit generation Free cash flow 40% Base 30% : 95% of target Target 50% : 100% of target 146,234 0% Stretch 150% : 110% of target Wall 200% : 120% of target Cost control All-in sustaining cost 20% Base 30% : 3% target 4 per ounce sold AISC Target 50% : Approved target AISC 887 36.2% Stretch 150% : 3% target Wall 200% : 6% target Sum of Company scorecard ratings 66.9% Notes to Company STI scorecard table: 1 Please refer to page 20 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how TRIFR is measured and its relevance to safety performance.
2 Please refer to page 20 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how gold production is measured and its relevance to our productivity levels.
3 F or STI KPI purposes, free cash flow is calculated as: gold revenue, copper revenue, silver revenue all costs including sustaining capital, corporate social responsibility costs, finance leases relating to operations and exploration dividends working capital.
4 Please refer to page 20 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how AISC is measured and its relevance to cost control achievements across the business.
Please note that 2017 outcomes for STI purposes were adjusted as explained in the accompanying narrative.
Overall outcome of CEO 2017 STI assessment Company and individual performance Element Weighting Assessment Outcome as a % of salary Company-wide performance 80% 66.9% 54% Individual performance 20% 20% Total 74% For 2018, the Interim CEO will have a target maximum STI opportunity of 75 150% of salary.
Performance measures for 2018 will continue to focus on production, costs, safety and profitability and will be assessed on the same basis as in 2017.
Company performance will continue to account for 80% of the total bonus opportunity, with individual performance accounting for the remaining 20%.
Executive Director LTIP awards vesting in 2017 audited There were no LTIP awards eligible to vest in 2017.
Executive Director LTIP awards existing as at 31 December 2017 audited As at the date of his resignation, Brad Gordon had the following outstanding awards under the LTIP.
All of these have been forfeited by him following his resignation, refer below.
Shares over which Shares over which awards held as of awards granted Market price at End of Award date Form of award 01 January 2017 during the year date of award performance period Vesting date Brad Gordon 17 February 2015 PRSU 310,383 2.77 16 February 2018 16 February 2018 16 February 2016 PRSU 418,502 2.27 15 February 2019 15 February 2019 26 April 2017 NCO 464,624 4.21 26 April 2022 26 April 2022 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Awards made on 26 April 2017 reflect the revised Remuneration Policy and LTIP rules approved at the 2017 AGM.
These awards were made in the form of nil-cost options and represent an award with a value 400% of base salary.
Like awards made in 2015 and 2016, the 2017 LTIP awards are subject to an assessment of the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the EMIX formerly Euromoney Global Gold Index.
However, unlike previous awards, the 2017 LTIP awards have a five-year performance and vesting period previously three years, with performance targets increased commensurately to reflect the extended performance period, as follows: February 2015 award and February 2016 award April 2017 award Acacias TSR % outperformance of % of target Acacias TSR % outperformance of % of target comparator group median over three years level of award comparator group median over five years level of award 35% 200% 50% 100% 12% 100% 16% 50% 0% 50% 0% 25% Below 0% 0% Below 0% 0% Following his resignation, all of Brad Gordons outstanding LTIP awards under the 2015, 2016 and 2017 cycles detailed above lapsed in full.
Executive Director LTIP awards to be granted in respect of 2017 audited On 26 February 2018 Peter Geleta received an LTIP award in the form of nil cost options over 1,077,731 Acacia shares equivalent to 400% of base salary.
The market value of an Acacia share at the time of grant was 148.46 pence per share.
The award will be subject to a five-year performance period, with the vesting date being the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
The award will be subject to the assessment of the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the EMIX formerly Euromoney Global Gold Index as follows: Acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group median over five years % of interests transferred 50% 100% 16% 50% 0% 25% Below 0% 0% Executive Directors interests under the SOP Stock Options only audited As part of his recruitment package Brad Gordon received a stock option award equal to 841,308 Acacia Ordinary Shares on 21 August 2013, representing an award with a fair market value at the time of grant equal to one year of base salary 425,000.
The fair market value of the award was ascertained using the Monte Carlo Simulation valuation 31.5% of the market value of an Acacia Ordinary Share.
The market price of Acacia Ordinary Shares at the time of this award was 1.60, assessed on the basis of the average of middle market quotations from the Daily Official List of the LSE for the day of grant and the following two dealing days.
The award vested in equal parts over four years and had an overall expiration date seven years from the date of grant.
Vesting was subject to the satisfaction of a TSR performance condition similar to that outlined above for the RSU award made to Mr Gordon in 2013.
As disclosed in previous reports, the first three tranches of Mr Gordons 2013 SOP award vested in full as at 20 August 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively, with 210,327 options having become exercisable to Mr Gordon on each of these dates.
During the year, the final tranche of Mr Gordons 2013 SOP award was tested for performance as at 20 August 2017, with Acacias TSR being below the weighted mean of comparators.
Consequently the final 210,327 options under the SOP lapsed on 20 August 2017.
Mr Gordon exercised his 630,981 vested options on 23 November 2017, as follows: Market price at Options held Exercise price Exercise date date of exercise Value at exercise 630,981 1.60 23 November 2017 1.90 191,648 Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for ELT members.
Given that the Company operates across a number of diverse economies with pay levels and structures reflecting local market conditions, the Compensation Committee believes that using the ELT as a subset for the purposes of comparing CEO remuneration provides a more meaningful comparison than using pay data for all employees.
The CEOs remuneration includes base salary, taxable benefit and STI payments.
ELT data is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2017 and 2016 populations.
CEO ELT members 2017 2016 % change 2017 2016 % change 20162017 20162017 Base salary 489,250 427,500 14% 295,405 269,227 10% Taxable benefits 42,762 38,488 11% 21,219 29,950 21% Annual bonus 362,045 449,730 -19% 156,089 195,835 -20% Total 894,057 915,718 -2% 472,713 495,012 -5% 88 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017, along with the percentage change in both.
Further details of the Companys economic contribution, including the economic value we add by paying our employees, Governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors and communities, is included in the sustainability review of this Annual Report.
2017 2016 % change 000 000 20162017 Shareholder distributions 26,450 15,101 75% Total employee expenditure 93,895 93,518 0% Comparison of Company performance The following graph shows Acacias TSR performance for the period from the IPO to 31 December 2017 calculated in accordance with the regulations against the FTSE 350 and Acacias LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 350 was chosen on the basis of it being a recognised broad equity market index, of which Acacia was a member for the reporting period.
The CEO remuneration table below details the Chief Executive Officers single figure remuneration over the same period.
Historical TSR performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding from IPO to 31 December 2017 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 18 Mar 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Acacia FTSE 350 2017 LTIP comparator group unweighted median Based on spot share prices in GBP 2017 LTIP comparator group based on an unweighted median CEO remuneration table Individual 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CEO single figure of Greg Hawkins 774 936 1,282 1,171 N A N A N A N A remuneration 000 Brad Gordon N A N A N A 317 931 919 11,650 967 STI payout as % of Greg Hawkins 60% 50% 43% 90% N A N A N A N A maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A 90% 36% 17% 63% 74% RSU vesting as % of Greg Hawkins N A N A N A 44% N A N A N A N A maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A N A N A 100% N A Option vesting as % of Greg Hawkins N A 100% 100% N A N A N A N A N A maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A 100% 100% 100% 0% Executive Director exit arrangements audited There were no payments to past Directors during 2017.
Brad Gordon stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 31 December 2017.
Details of his leaver arrangements, which are in accordance with the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, are detailed below: Mr Gordon was entitled to an annual bonus payment in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Details of the performance assessment for the bonus are included on page 86, with an overall payment of 367,045 due to be paid to Mr Gordon in February 2018.
Mr Gordons unvested awards granted under the LTIP lapsed on his stepping down from the Company on 31 December 2017.
Mr Gordon retains no further interests in Acacia LTIP awards.
No other amounts are payable to Mr Gordon in relation to his leaving employment with Acacia.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 89 Value of 100 invested at IPO REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests in Acacia Ordinary Shares and shareholding requirements audited Following approval of the 2017 Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding in Acacia Ordinary Shares equivalent to four times base salary by retaining 50% of vested awards net of tax until the guideline has been met.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding equivalent to their annual base fee within five years of election to the Board, which may be satisfied via the acquisition of Acacia Ordinary Shares or by the receipt of DSU awards under the Acacia DSU Plan.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2017 along with the form of their interests in Acacia Ordinary Shares.
Shares held Options held RSUs held DSUs held Unvested and Unvested and Vested subject to subject to Shareholding Current Owned outright but not performance performance requirement shareholding Requirement a a b c or vested exercised condition condition Unvested % salary fee % salary fee met?
Executive Director Brad Gordon N A N A N A d Non-Executive Directors Kelvin Dushnisky N A N A N A Andre Falzon 9,000 15,330 100% 152% Yes Michael Kenyon 41,067 100% 256% Yes Steve Lucas 12,384 100% 62% N A Rachel English 17,383 13,946 100% 156% Yes Stephen Galbraith N A N A N A Notes: a Options and RSUs vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
b T he Companys DSU Plan for Non-Executive Directors provides Non-Executive Directors with the option to receive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market value of Acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context of Acacias share price until the time of payment.
No DSUs were allocated for 2017. c A s regards Executive Directors this is calculated by reference to annual base salary at the time of the relevant individuals appointment against the value of relevant awards at the time of grant.
As regards existing Independent Non-Executive Directors, this is calculated by reference to either: i the annual Non-Executive Director base fee at the time of adopting the guidelines, if appointed to the Board at that time: or ii the annual Non-Executive Director base fee at the time of appointment, assessed against the higher of: i the number of shares multiplied by the mid-market price on the last trading day before the valuation date: or ii the number of shares multiplied by the share price on the date of acquisition of each relevant interest during the applicable five-year acquisition period.
d As at their respective cessation dates, Peter Tomsett and Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu had both achieved their respective shareholding guidelines.
Brad Gordon exercised his outstanding SOP options in November 2017, whilst his outstanding LTIP awards lapsed on leaving the Company.
As at the close on 31 December 2017, Mr Gordon holds no interests in Acacia shares.
Details of the LTIP Award made to Peter Geleta post year-end are provided on page 87.
There have been no other changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2017 and 6 March 2018.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2017 AGM The following table shows the results of the binding vote on the 2016 Remuneration Policy and the advisory vote on the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM: Annual Report on Remuneration Policy 2016 Remuneration 2016 Total number of votes % votes cast Total number of votes % votes cast For 333,828,526 87.69 371,674,846 97.76 Against 46,875,017 12.31 8,526,728 2.24 Votes cast excluding withheld votes 380,703,543 380,201,574 Votes withheld 1,149 503,118 Total votes cast including withheld votes 380,704,692 380,704,692 90 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE 2015 and 2016 STI target disclosure The 2015 and 2016 Company scorecard STI targets have not been provided to date as they have been considered to be commercially sensitive.
We indicated in last years report that retrospective disclosure of those targets would be given where this is no longer the case, and in any event within two years.
The 2015 and 2016 outcomes for STI payment purposes were subject to adjustments as disclosed in the 2015 and 2016 Annual Reports respectively.
Approval of Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by MICHAEL KENYON CHAIR OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 91
