Corporate governance Report of the Remuneration Committee Accordingly, the Directors remuneration policy which will I am pleased to present our Directors be submitted for approval by our shareholders at the 2018 Remuneration Report for the year AGM is largely a renewal of our existing policy, and only a limited number of changes have been proposed.
The main changes to the policy are: Company performance The previous 20% discount to market levels for base 2017 was a year of continued strong growth for Just Eat: salaries will no longer be applied.
For Peter Plumb, it was considered appropriate and necessary to provide Peter revenue grew by 45% to 546.3 million: with a market level salary of 695,000 in order to secure uEBITDA grew by 42% to 163.5 million: his appointment.
"We have also increased Paul Harrisons base salary to 450,000from September 2017 to Total Shareholder Return ""TSR"" in the year was 33.8%, position it at a level consistent with his experience and outperforming the FTSE 250 Index: and performance, as demonstrated through Paul acting up on 18 December 2017 Just Eat joined the FTSE 100 Index."
The new salary levels for our Executive Directors place them at a broadly median The 2017 Directors Annual Bonus Plan was based around level of salary for similarly sized FTSE companies.
strong financial performance reflecting growth in revenue and uEBITDA, as well as strategic Customer-focused For 2018's Annual Bonus we are introducing a deferral objectives and personal objectives.
The out-turn of the 2017 annual bonus for Peter Plumb, the The maximum participation level for our CFO in our CEO, and for Paul Harrison, the CFO, is confirmed at 80% Annual Bonus Plan will be increased to 150% of base ofthe maximum level, representing 120% and 96% of 2017 salary from 120% of base salary.
"The financial measures for our At the same time, within our existing policy limits for Annual Bonus Plan are revenue and uEBITDA and these long-term incentive plans ""LTIPs"", the CFOs annual PSP were met in full."
In line with best practice, we are committed award will be increased to 200% of base salary from 160%.
to transparency in reporting and have, therefore, provided details of the performance targets for the annual bonus' These changes for our CFO for both annual bonus and PSP financial and strategic metrics on page 69. will, from 2018, give the CFO the same participation levels as our CEO in our incentive plans annual bonus 150% of Our first post-IPO long-term incentives granted under our base salary: PSP 200% of base salary.
Performance Share Plan PSP in April 2015 will vest by reference to performance measured to the end of our 2017 As a Committee, we are confident that the changes financial year.
Whilst neither of our current Executive Directors detailed above are both necessary and appropriate in the were participants in these 2015 PSP awards, I am pleased context of the growing size and complexity of Just Eat as a to confirm that the performance criteria for full vesting of business andits strong performance.
The changes to our these awards was achieved, with an adjusted diluted EPS Directors remuneration policy which are being proposed of 16.6pence for2017 10.5 pence was required for full at the 2018 AGM are, however, limited and a fuller review vesting : and an upper quintile or better TSR ranking of our policy may be appropriate during 2018 as our new against the FTSE 250 ex IT over the period of three senior management team becomes moreestablished.
The Remuneration Committee considered that the outcomes for both annual bonus and PSP represented afairreflection of the performance of the Company and itsmanagement This has been a strong year for team and can be applied without adjustment.
JustEat, driven by disciplined Remuneration policy for 2018 implementation of the 2017 was also a year of significant change in our senior leadership team as explained earlier in this annual report Groupsstrategy.
In the context of these changes, the Remuneration Committee Gwyn Burr concluded that 2017 was not an appropriate time to undertake Chairman, Remuneration Committee any material review of our Directors remuneration policy, which, having first been approved at our 2015 AGM, must be resubmitted to our shareholders for approval at our 2018 AGM.
com 65 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Key matters considered at each main meetingof the  during the year included: 2017 February two meetings Confirmation of Executive remuneration for the June and July three meetings coming year, including proposal of remuneration Review and approval of new CEO remuneration for Interim Executive Chairman role.
Review of arrangements for David Buttress.
Mid-year review of progress on 2017 annual bonus.
Review and approval of 2016 annual bonus out-turn.
Approval of changes to CFO remuneration package inthe context of his appointment as Interim CEO.
Confirmation of Executive Director 2017 annual Update on gender pay gap analysis.
Market comparison of Group pay conditions.
Review of proposed 2017 long-term incentivegrants.
Initial review of the Groups Directors remuneration Review of Executive Team remuneration packages policy in advance of renewal at 2018 AGM.
and wider remuneration across the Group.
December one meeting Review and approval of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Update on 2017 annual bonus progress.
Review and approval of plans for Sharesave offer Review of proposals for 2018 annual bonus during the year.
Remuneration plans for role of new Chairman.
Review of proposed updated Group Directors remuneration policy.
Update on gender pay gap reporting.
Update of share award plans for GDPR implications.
Review of Committee terms of reference.
At every main meeting,  reviews: Minutes and actions from previous meetings.
One other matter to highlight for 2018 is that our annual to approve the Implementation Report sections of this grant of PSP awards is being delayed until later in the year.
Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors This additional period of time before making 2018s PSP remuneration policy : and awards will enable us to further consider the performance to approve a new Deferred Bonus Share Plan under measures for these awards, and to consult with our leading which elements of annual bonus will be deferred.
It is necessary to undertake areview of performance measures for 2018s PSP awards The vote on the Implementation Report is our normal as the Company is now a member of the FTSE 100 our annual advisory vote on such matters.
If approved by our previous TSR comparator group was the FTSE 250 ex IT, shareholders, the Directors remuneration policy will apply but delaying the grant will also enable us to fully consider for a maximum of three years from the 2018 AGM and the the views of the new CEO and, in due course, the views of policy will replace the Directors remuneration policy Mike Evans, as our new Chairman, with regards to our previously approved at the 2015 AGM.
I hope that we can continue to rely on the support of our Finally, whilst not a matter for the Remuneration Committee, shareholders for the resolutions which will be proposed at the Board raised the fee levels for Non-executive Directors the 2018 AGM.
for 2018: the new fee levels are detailed on page 77.
Shareholder approval At the AGM, to be held on 26 April 2018, shareholders will be asked to approve three resolutions related to Directors' Gwyn Burr Chairman, Remuneration Committee remuneration matters: 5 March 2018 to approve the Directors remuneration policy as set out in Part A of this Directors Remuneration Report: Annual Report & Accounts 2017 66 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration Introduction We present this Directors Remuneration Report to reflect the UKs Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the DRR regulations.
"The Directors Remuneration Report also describes how the Board has complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code ""the Code"" relating to remuneration matters."
Part A is the Directors remuneration policy, which will take effect immediately after the 2018 AGM, subject to shareholder approval.
Part B is the Implementation Report.
The Groups auditor has reported on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and stated whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of the Directors Remuneration Report that have been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
Part A: Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy as set out in this section of the Directors Remuneration Report applies tothe roles of Chairman, Executive Director and Non-executive Director.
The Directors remuneration policy has been developed mindful of the requirements of the Code and is felt to be appropriate to support the long-term success of the Company whilst ensuring that it does not promote inappropriate risk taking.
The policy is consistent with the Companys broader outlook on environmental, social and governance issues.
If approved by the shareholders in a binding vote at the 2018 AGM, the Directors remuneration policy will apply for a maximum of three years from the 2018 AGM.
It will replace the Directors remuneration policy previously approved at the 2015 AGM.
"Summary of changes from previous policy unaudited As detailed in the ""changes from previous policy"" sections in the Remuneration Policy table, the key changes to the Directors' Remuneration policy are as follows: Element Change from previous policy Base salary Base salary cap is re-expressed."
For base salaries, we are no longer applying the previous 20% discount to market data in setting the appropriate market levels for Executive Directors salaries.
Benefits Commuting cost allowances for Executive Directors are removed.
Introducing bonus deferral for any outcomes above 75% of base salary.
Deferral is made into an award of deferred Annual shares vesting over three years, with one-third of the deferred shares vesting each year.
Bonus Plan Maximum annual bonus potential for the CFO to be the same level as that of the CEO at 150% of base salary per annum previously 120% of base salary.
Confirming that no material changes will be made to the performance measures nor to the relative weightings forsuch measures for the Annual Bonus Plan without consulting major shareholders.
Long-term Confirming that no material changes will be made to the performance measures nor to the relative weightings forsuch measures for the PSP without consulting major shareholders.
incentive plan Removal of previous scope to make awards of market-priced share options not used in practice during the previous policy period.
com 67 Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration Policy table unaudited Element and purpose Base salary This is the core element of pay and reflects the individuals role and responsibilities within the Group with some adjustment to reflect their capability and contribution.
Policy and Base salaries will be reviewed each year by the Committee.
operation Salary levels are reviewed by reference to FTSE listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee generally views pan-sector data from companies 30 in market capitalisation of the Company as an appropriate reference point.
The Committee also has regard to other relevant factors including corporate and individual performance and any changes in an individuals role and responsibilities.
Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
Changes to base salaries normally take effect from 1 January.
The Remuneration Committee will apply the factors set out in the section above in considering any salary Maximum adjustments during the duration of this policy.
Increases in base salaries for Executive Directors will be generally guided by any increases for the broader employee population, but on occasion may need to recognise, for example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role.
No increase will be made if it would take an Executive Directors salary above 788,000 being the median level of salaries for CEOs in the FTSE 31100, provided that this figure will be increased in line with UK retail price index inflation for the duration of this policy.
N A Performance measures Changes from Cap for base salaries is re-expressed, and relative positioning is confirmed with removal of the application of the previous 20% discount to market data.
previous policy Benefits To provide benefits valued by recipients.
Policy and The Group provides market-competitive benefits in kind.
Details of the benefits provided in each year will be set out in the Implementation Report.
The Executive Directors receive a car allowance, private medical cover and operation insurance benefits.
The Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to introduce new benefits where it concludes that it is in the interests of Just Eat to do so, having regard to the particular circumstances and market practice.
Where appropriate, the Company may meet certain costs relating to Executive Director relocations and ifnecessary expatriate benefits.
Maximum It is not possible to prescribe the likely change in the cost of insured benefits or the cost of some of the other reported benefits year to year, but the provision of benefits will operate within an annual limit of 100,000 plus a further 100% of base salary in the case of relocations and expatriate benefits provided that relocation benefits may be paid only in the year of appointment and for a further two financial years.
The Remuneration Committee will monitor such costs in practice and ensure that the overall costs do not increase by more than the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate in all the circumstances.
N A Performance measures Changes from Commuting costs allowances for Executive Directors have been removed.
previous policy Pension To provide retirement benefits.
Policy and Executive Directors can receive pension contributions to personal pension arrangements or the equivalent amount can be paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions reduced for the impact of employers' NICs.
operation The maximum employers contribution is limited to 10% of base salary per annum, although it is not currently Maximum anticipated that contributions will increase above the current 5% level for the duration of this policy.
N A Performance measures Changes from No material changes.
previous policy Annual Report & Accounts 2017 68 Corporate governance Element and purpose Annual Bonus Plan To motivate employees and incentivise delivery of performance over a one-year operating cycle, focusing on the short medium-term elements of our strategic aims.
Policy and Annual Bonus Plan levels and the appropriateness of measures are reviewed annually at the commencement of each financial year to ensure they continue to support our strategy.
operation Annual Bonus Plan outcomes will be calculated following the determination of achievement against performance measures and targets.
For the financial year 2018 onwards, the Annual Bonus Plan outcomes will be delivered partly in cash and partly as a deferred award of Just Eat shares.
Any Annual Bonus Plan outcomes achieved above 75% of base salary will be delivered as a deferred award of shares, and with the period of deferral being three years with one-third of the amounts deferred vesting and being capable of release at each annual anniversary of the making of the deferred award.
Deferred awards will be a right to receive shares for nil cost with the shares either being delivered automatically at vesting or being delivered at a time following vesting at the individuals choice.
If appropriate, dividend entitlements for deferred shares will accrue over the deferral period and be delivered as additional vesting shares.
Malus clawback provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan, and to amounts deferred in Just Eat shares, as explained in the notes to this table.
The maximum level of Annual Bonus Plan outcome for an Executive Director is 150% of base salary per annum for Maximum the duration of this policy.
The performance measures applied may be financial or non-financial, corporate, divisional or individual and in such Performance proportions as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee would, however, measures expect to consult with its major shareholders if it proposed changing materially the current performance measures applied for the Annual Bonus Plan or the relative weightings between such measures in subsequent financial years.
Once set, performance measures and targets will generally remain unchanged for the year, except to reflect events such as corporate acquisitions or other major transactions where the Committee considers it necessary inits judgement to make appropriate adjustments.
Attaining the threshold level of performance for any measure will not produce a payout of more than 25% of the maximum portion of overall annual bonus attributable to that measure, with a sliding scale to full payout for maximum performance.
The Annual Bonus Plan remains a discretionary arrangement and the Remuneration Committee retains a standard power to apply its judgement to adjust the outcome of the Annual Bonus Plan for any performance measure from zero to any cap should it consider that to be appropriate.
Changes from Introduces a deferral of any Annual Bonus Plan outcome of over 75% of base salary into shares.
previous policy Increases the maximum annual bonus potential for the CFO to the same level as that of the CEO at 150% of base salary per annum from 120%.
Confirms that no material changes will be made to the performance measures or the relative weightings for such measures for Annual Bonus without consulting major shareholders.
com 69 Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration Policy table unaudited continued Element and purpose Long-term incentives To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance over the long-term, and to promote alignment with shareholders interests, the Group operates the PSP.
Policy and Awards under the PSP may be granted as nil-cost options, conditional awards or forfeitable shares which vest totheextent that performance conditions are satisfied over a period of at least three years.
operation Under the PSP rules, vested awards may also be settled in cash although this will typically be the case only ifrequired to comply with non-UK legal constraints.
Vested awards for Executive Directors will be subject to a further two-year holding period during which time awards may not normally be exercised or released but are no longer contingent on performance conditions norfuture employment.
If appropriate, dividend entitlements will accrue until the end of the holding period in respect of performance-vested shares and be delivered as additional vesting shares.
Malus clawback provisions apply to the PSP as explained in the notes to this table.
The formal limit under the PSP allows awards over shares worth 200% of base salary in a financial year Maximum and 300% in exceptional circumstances.
This excludes any dividend equivalent accruals.
The Remuneration Committee expressly reserves discretion to make such awards as it considers appropriate within these limits.
Performance The Remuneration Committee may set such performance measures on PSP awards as it considers appropriate whether financial or non-financial, and whether corporate, divisional or individual.
The Remuneration Committee measures would, however, expect to consult with its major shareholders if it proposed changing materially the current performance measures applied for PSP awards made to Executive Directors or the relative weightings between such measures in subsequent financial years.
Once set, performance measures and targets will generally remain unaltered unless events occur which, in the Remuneration Committees opinion, make it appropriate to alter the performance conditions in such manner as the Committee thinks fit.
Performance may be measured over such periods as the Remuneration Committee selects at grant, which will not be less than, but may be more than, three financial years.
No more than 20% of awards vest for attaining the threshold level of performance conditions.
Removes previously unused facility to grant market-priced share options to Executive Directors.
Changes from previous policy Confirms that no material changes will be made to the performance measures or the relative weightings for such measures for PSP without consulting major shareholders.
All employee share plans To encourage share ownership by employees, thereby allowing them to participate in the long-term success of the Group and align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Executive Directors are able to participate in all employee share plans on the same terms as other Group employees Policy and as required by HMRC legislation.
"operation The Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan ""SIP"" are all employee share plans established under HMRC tax-advantaged regimes and follow the usual form for such plans."
The maximum participation levels for all employee share plans will be the limits for such plans set by HMRC Maximum fromtime to time.
Consistent with normal practice, such awards are not subject to performance conditions.
Performance measures Changes from No material changes.
previous policy Annual Report & Accounts 2017 70 Corporate governance Element and purpose Shareholding guidelines To further align the interest of Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Policy and Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the shares vesting under all share plans after any disposals for the payment of applicable taxes until such time as they hold a minimum of 400% of their base salary in shares.
operation Only beneficially owned shares and performance vested share awards discounted for anticipated tax liabilities maybe counted for the purposes of the guidelines and this includes performance-vested shares subject to a continued holding period.
Share awards do not count prior to vesting.
Once shareholding guidelines have been met, individuals are expected to retain these levels as a minimum.
TheRemuneration Committee will review shareholdings annually in the context of this policy.
Maximum N A Performance N A measures No material changes.
Changes from previous policy Chairman and Non-executive Director fees To enable the Company to recruit and retain a Chairman and Non-executive Directors of the highest calibre, at the appropriate cost.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-executive Directors aim to be competitive with other Policy and listed companies of equivalent size and complexity.
operation The fees payable to the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board.
The fees payable to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
All fees will be subject to periodic review.
For Non-executive Directors, the fee structures may involve separate fees for chairing or for membership of Board Committees or for acting as Senior Independent Director.
No benefits are envisaged for the Non-executive Directors including the Chairman but the Company reserves the right to provide benefits including travel and office support within the prescribed limits.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
The aggregate fees and any benefits of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors will not exceed the limit from Maximum time to time prescribed within the Companys Articles of Association for such fees currently 2 million per annum.
Any increases actually made will be appropriately disclosed.
The Company reserves the right to vary the structure of fees within this limit including, for example, introducing time-based fees or reflecting the establishment of new Board Committees.
previous policy Notes to the Remuneration Policy table 1.
Travel and hospitality Whilst the Committee does not consider travel and hospitality to form part of benefits, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid by the Company or another and certain instances of business travel including any related tax liabilities settled by the Company or the Group for Executive Directors, Non-executive Directors andthe Chairman including their family members may technically be considered as benefits.
The Remuneration Committee expressly reserves the right to authorise such activities and reimbursement of associated expenses within its agreed policies.
Deemed benefits from JSOP participation Payments to any Director in respect of the deemed cost of interest on loans relating to participation in the JSOP and, if relevant, the writing off of any such loans are benefits within the scope of the Directors remuneration policy.
The value of any such amounts is in addition to the maximum amounts stated in the table above for benefits for Executive Directors and for Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees.
Stating maximum amounts for the remuneration policy table The DRR regulations and related investor guidance encourages companies to disclose a cap within which each element ofremuneration policy will operate.
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within the Remuneration Policy table, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative of any aspiration.
com 71 Annual report on remuneration continued Notes to the Remuneration Policy table continued 4.
Malus and clawback Malus being the forfeiture of unvested awards and clawback being the ability of the Company to claim repayment ofpaid amounts as a debt provisions apply to the PSP and Annual Bonus Plan including any future deferred amounts.
These provisions may be applied where the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate to do so following: a misstatement of accounts: a miscalculation of vesting payouts: an act omission that justifies summary dismissal for misconduct which has no time limit : and in respect of malus only, circumstances where the Committee believes there is a risk of serious reputational damage tothe Group.
Discretions reserved in operating incentive plans The Remuneration Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP according to their respective rules and the above Remuneration Policy table.
The Remuneration Committee retains certain discretions, consistent with market practice, in relation to the operation and administration of these plans including: as described in the Remuneration Policy table the determination of performance measures and targets and resultant vesting and payout levels: as described in the Remuneration Policy table the ability to adjust performance measures and targets to reflect events and or to ensure the performance measures and targets operate as originally intended: as described in the Termination Policy section below the determination of the treatment of individuals who leave employment, based on the rules of the incentive plans, and the treatment of the incentive plans on exceptional events, such as a change of control of the Company: and the ability to make adjustments to existing awards made under the incentive plans in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructurings or special dividends.
Differences between the policy on remuneration for Directors and the policy on remuneration of other employees When determining Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes into account pay throughout the Group toensure that the arrangements in place remain appropriate.
This is more fully discussed on page 74.
Commitments under previous policies Subject to the achievement of any applicable performance conditions, Directors are eligible to receive payment from any commitments or awards made prior to the approval and implementation of the Directors remuneration policy detailed in this report.
Service contracts unaudited Executive Directors The Committees policy is that each Executive Directors service agreement should be of indefinite duration, subject totermination by the Company or the individual on 12 months notice.
The service agreements of all Executive Directors comply with that policy.
The service agreements reserve the right for the Company to make a payment in lieu of notice to an Executive Director for the base salary for the duration of the notice period and for the CEO only, car allowance and pension contributions.
Contracts do not contain change of control provisions but do contain provisions allowing for summary termination.
The date of each Executive Directors contract is: Name Date of service contract Peter Plumb 6 July 2017 Paul Harrison 14 November 2017 The service agreements of the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM, including the 15 minutes preceding the meeting.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors Each Non-executive Director and the Chairman is engaged for an initial period, subject to annual renewal at the AGM.
ForNon-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, these engagements can be terminated by either party on three monthsnotice.
The Non-executive Directors are not entitled to any pension benefits and are not entitled to any payment in compensation for early termination of their appointment beyond the three months notice referred to above.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 72 Corporate governance Service contracts unaudited continued Chairman and Non-executive Directors continued For each Non-executive Director the effective date of their latest letter of appointment is: Name Date of appointment Term Frederic Coorevits 10 July 2009 Annual reappointment Andrew Griffith 12 March 2014 Annual reappointment Gwyn Burr 12 March 2014 Annual reappointment Diego Oliva 24 September 2015 Annual reappointment Roisin Donnelly 17 October 2016 Annual reappointment Alistair Cox 2 May 2017 Initial engagement first annual reappointment at 2018 AGM 1 David Buttress 9 August 2017 Retiring from the Board effective 26 April 2018 1.
David Buttress was an Executive Director from 8 April 2014 to 8th August 2017.
The letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM, including the 15 minutes preceding the meeting.
Recruitment remuneration policy unaudited The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of high calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets necessary to deliver the Groups strategic aims.
In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to apply the general policy for Executive Directors as set out on the previous pages and structure a package in accordance with that policy.
Consistent with the DRR regulations, the caps contained within the policy for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, although the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice.
The Annual Bonus Plan and PSP will operate including the maximum award levels as detailed in the remuneration policy table in relation to any newly appointed Executive Director.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses asit considers appropriate in the year of appointment and for a further two financial years.
For external candidates, it may be necessary to make additional awards in connection with the recruitment to buy out awards forfeited by the individual on leaving a previous employer.
For the avoidance of doubt, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal cap.
For any buy-outs, the Company will not pay more than is, in the view of the Committee, necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under the terms of the existing Annual Bonus Plan and PSP.
It may, however, be necessary in some cases to make buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than the existing Annual Bonus Plan and PSP for example, specific arrangements under Listing Rule 9.4.
All buy-outs, whether under the Annual Bonus Plan, PSP or otherwise, will take account of the service obligations and performance requirements for any remuneration relinquished by the individual when leaving a previous employer.
TheCommittee will seek to make buy-outs subject to what are, in its opinion, comparable requirements in respect ofservice and performance.
However, the Committee may choose to relax this requirement in certain cases such as where the service and or performance requirements are materially completed, or where such factors are, in the view of the Committee, reflected insome other way, such as a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited and where the Committee considers it to be in the interests of shareholders.
Exceptionally, where necessary, such buy-outs may include a guaranteed or non-prorated annual bonus in the year of joining.
A new Non-executive Director would be recruited on the terms explained above in respect of the main policy for suchDirectors.
Termination policy summary unaudited It is appropriate for the Committee to consider treatment on a termination having regard for all of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
"This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination see ""Service contracts"" on page 72 and any treatments that the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan, the proposed new Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the PSP."
com 73 Annual report on remuneration continued Termination policy summary unaudited continued Thepotential treatments on termination under these plans are summarised in the table below.
If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver, e. g. leaving through disability or otherwise Incentives at the discretion of the Committee If a leaver is leaving for other reasons Other exceptional cases, e. g. change in control The Committee has the discretion to No awards made.
The Committee has the discretion Annual Bonus determine the annual bonus which will to determine the annual bonus.
Plan typically be limited to the period actually worked.
Deferred Share Awards normally preserved in all Awards will lapse on termination Awards received early unless the leaver cases, but release is not for cause: otherwise awards are Committee determines otherwise.
Bonus Plan typically accelerated, except in the retained but release is not case of death in service.
The Committee has the ability to release a good leavers awards early.
Receive a prorated award subject to All awards will normally lapse.
Receive a prorated award subject PSP the application of the performance to the application of the conditions at the end of the normal performance conditions at the vesting period.
date of the event, subject to standard Committee discretions The Committee retains standard tovary time prorating.
discretions to vary time prorating, release any holding period, or accelerate vesting to the date ofcessation determining the performance conditions at that time for a good leaver.
SIP and the Sharesave Plan provide treatments for leavers in line with HMRC rules for such plans.
The Company has the power to enter into settlement agreements with Directors and to pay compensation to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of the termination of an Executive Director, the Company may pay a contribution towards that individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
External appointments The Companys policy is to permit an Executive Director to serve as a Non-executive Director elsewhere when this does not conflict with the individuals duties to the Company and, where an Executive Director takes such a role, they will be entitled toretain any fees which they earn from that appointment.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are taken into account when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee receives regular updates on overall pay and conditions in the Group.
The same reward principles guide reward decisions for all Group employees, including Executive Directors, although remuneration packages differ to take into account appropriate factors in different areas of the business: Annual bonus the majority of Group employees participate in an annual bonus plan, although the quantum and balance of corporate to individual objectives varies by level.
PSP key Group employees participate in the PSP currently based on the same performance conditions as those for Executive Directors, although the Committee reserves the discretion to vary the performance conditions for awards made to employees below Board level.
All employee share plans the Committee considers it is important for all employees to have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company.
The Company offers a Sharesave Plan across eight countries.
Reflecting standard practice, the Company did not consult with employees in preparing this Remuneration Report.
TheRemuneration Committee is cognisant of requests from, amongst others, the Investment Association for companies topublish ratios comparing CEO to employee pay.
The Remuneration Committee has not, however, published this data in theDirectors Remuneration Report given the absence of a common methodology for these comparisons: the Companys expectation is that it will publish ratios showing comparisons in future years when, as can be expected, UK regulations develop a common methodology.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 74 Corporate governance Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group continued Potential rewards under various scenarios The potential total rewards available to the Executive Directors, ignoring any change in share price and dividend equivalent accruals, are shown below: Illustrations of application of remuneration policy 3,500 3,190 3,000 2,500 43% 2,076 2,000 1,557 43% 1,500 18% 33% 1,018 33% 1,000 18% 758 33% 501 33% 500 100% 49% 24% 100% 49% 24% 25% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Total fixed remuneration Annual bonus PSP The above chart aims to show how the remuneration policy set out above for Executive Directors is applied using the following assumptions.
Minimum Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2018.
Benefits measured on the basis of assumptions regarding the cost of car allowances and insurance benefits.
Pension measured as the 5% of base salary receivable either as a pension contribution or as cash, and ignoring any reduction to payments made in cash for employer's NICs.
Base salary Benefits Pension Total fixed Name 000 000 000 000 Chief Executive Officer 695 28 35 758 Chief Financial Officer 450 28 23 501 On target Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was on target: Annual Bonus Plan: consists of the on-target annual bonus 75% of base salary, 50% of maximum.
PSP: consists of the threshold level of vesting 40% of base salary, 20% of maximum.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable: Annual Bonus Plan: consists of the maximum annual bonus 150% of base salary.
PSP: assumes maximum vesting of awards and valued as on the date of grant normal award 200% of base salary.
Consideration of shareholders views Each year the Remuneration Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration-related matters at our AGM in determining that the current Directors' remuneration policy remains appropriate for the Company, and considers any specific representations made by our shareholders on pay matters.
The Remuneration Committee also seeks to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments on the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys Executive pay arrangements in particular.
com 75 000 Annual report on remuneration continued Part B: Implementation Report Summary of implementation of Directors remuneration policy in 2018 unaudited Element of remuneration policy Detail of implementation of policy for 2018 Base salary Base salaries for Executive Directors in 2018 are as follows: with the next review envisaged in January 2019 : Peter Plumb 695,000.
Benefits Provision of car allowance and any other changes to the benefits offered to the Executive Directors in 2018 will be in line with changes for all employees, specifically non-taxable insurance coverage for all employee groups.
Pension No changes to the pension arrangements for Executive Directors are anticipated for 2018.
Pension contributions of 5% of base salary are paid into the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
If impacted by HMRC limits on contributions, amounts can be paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension contributions reduced for the impact of employer's NICs.
Annual Bonus Subject to the approval of the Directors remuneration policy at the 2018 AGM, it is proposed that the Annual Bonus Plan for 2018 will operate as described in this section.
Plan The proposed Annual Bonus Plan maximum potential levels for 2018 are to be as follows: Peter Plumb 150% of base salary.
Paul Harrison 150% of base salary.
The performance measures for the Annual Bonus Plan in 2018 will be a mix of revenue 35% weighting, uEBITDA 35% weighting and personal strategic objectives 30% weighting.
Given the competitive nature of the Companys sector, the specific performance targets for the 2018 Annual Bonus Plan are considered to be commercially sensitive and accordingly are not disclosed.
The Committee currently intends to disclose the financial performance targets for the year ended 31 December 2018 on a retrospective basis in the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report.
Additionally, so far as commercial sensitivity will allow, details of the personal strategic objectives for 2018 will also be disclosed.
Annual Bonus Plan outcomes for 2018 will be settled following the determination of achievement against performance measures and targets and will be delivered in cash for outcomes up to 75% of base salary and above this level of attainment in an award of deferred shares.
The deferred shares will vest over three years from the making of the award, with one-third of the award vesting and capable of being released at each annual anniversary of the making of the award.
Subject to the approval of the Directors remuneration policy at the 2018 AGM, it is proposed that the PSP award Long-term levels for Executive Directors for 2018 are to be as follows: incentives provided under Peter Plumb 200% of base salary.
the Just Eat Paul Harrison 200% of base salary.
Performance Share Plan A holding period applies so that any PSP awards for which the performance vesting requirements are satisfied will PSP not be released for a further two years from the third anniversary of the original award date.
The performance conditions for PSP awards to be made in 2018 remain to be finalised at the current time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to consult with its major shareholders before the performance conditions for 2018s PSP awards are settled and the awards are made.
As the Company has joined the FTSE 100 it is necessary for the Committee to revisit the performance measures for new PSP awards in 2018 the previous comparator group for the TSR performance conditions for PSP was the FTSE 250 ex IT.
All employee Executive Directors have the opportunity to participate in the Companys HMRC tax-advantaged share plans on share plans the same basis as all other UK employees.
Guideline levels are 400% of base salary level for all Executive Directors.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the Ordinary shares vesting under all share plans, after any disposals for the payment of applicable taxes, until they have achieved the required level of shareholding.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 76 Corporate governance Summary of implementation of Directors remuneration policy in 2018 unaudited continued Chairman and A breakdown of Non-executive Directors current annual fees is provided below.
Non-executive Senior Committee Directors fees Committee Independent membership Base fee Chairman fee Director fee fees Total 1 Andrew Griffith 62,500 15,000 12,500 5,000 95,000 Gwyn Burr 62,500 15,000 5,000 82,500 Diego Oliva 62,500 10,000 72,500 Roisin Donnelly 62,500 62,500 Alistair Cox 62,500 62,500 David Buttress 62,500 62,500 1.
For the period during which he is fulfilling the role of Interim Chairman, Andrew Griffith has not been paid any additional fees.
Frederic Coorevits acts as a Non-executive Director but receives no fee.
Single total figure table audited The remuneration for the Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company who performed qualifying services during the year is detailed below.
Dr. John Hughes was paid fees at his normal Chairmans fee rate of 220,000 for the period he served as Chairman.
For the period he served as Executive Chairman, hewas paid an annual rate of 465,000, on a per diem basis, being a rate equivalent to David Buttress 2016 base salary.
Peter Plumb joined on 18 September 2017 and received his salary of 695,000 per annum for the portion of the year worked.
Paul Harrison was paid a base salary of 400,000 per annum, for the period he was CFO prior to becoming Interim CEO.
As Interim CEO, he was paid an acting up allowance of 100,000 per annum on a per diem basis.
For the part of the year in which Paul Harrison was CFO after having acted as Interim CEO, Paul Harrison was paid a base salary at the rate of 450,000 per annum.
David Buttress was paid a base salary of 465,000 per annum for the period he was CEO and until the end of his notice period.
For the period he was a Nonexecutive Director he was paid a Non-executive Directors base fee of 60,000 per annum.
Untaken holiday at the end of his notice period was paid to David and is included in the salary figure.
More details regarding the annual bonus for 2017 are set out on page 69.
T he value of the PSP award for David Buttress was calculated using a three month average share price to 31 December 2017 of 765.13 pence applied to 71,658 shares.
This number of shares represented a pro rata reduction of his 2015 PSP award to which the original performance conditions were applied as set out on pages 78 and 81.
The LTIP value for Paul Harrison represents the intrinsic gain of his Sharesave option when it was granted on 20 September 2017, being the difference between the option price 520 pence and the then market value of Just Eat shares 686.5 pence, multiplied by the number of option shares 3,461 shares.
The other column includes the amounts paid to Paul Harrison in relation to his relocation.
Non-executive Director appointed with effect from 2 May 2017.
CFO appointed with effect from 26 September 2016.
Non-executive Director appointed with effect from 17 October 2016.
The other column includes amounts paid to Paul Harrison in relation to his recruitment.
com 77 Annual report on remuneration continued Single total figure table audited continued The three non-independent Non-executive Directors Frederic Coorevits, Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman who served during 2017 and 2016 part of 2016 only for Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman, received no remuneration during these years.
Taxable benefits audited Until the Joint Ownership awards are sold, the Company makes annual payments to participants, the net amount of which will reimburse the participants for the annual income tax charge that arises on such proportion of the outstanding beneficial loan amount as is attributable to the remaining jointly owned shares.
The annual payment made to the relevant Directors and the taxable benefit arising on the outstanding loan amount are included within the taxable benefits column in the single total figure table.
The taxable benefit arising on the outstanding loan amounts is detailed below: Taxable benefit arising 2017 2016 on the JSOP loans Dr. John Hughes 10,666 12,514 David Buttress 15,923 21,931 Further detail on the Joint Ownership Awards is provided on page 80.
Paul Harrison was reimbursed for commuting costs whilst interim CEO of 11,199.
Peter Plumb receives a car allowance of25,000 and Paul Harrison also receives a car allowance of 25,000 since 18 September 2017.
The Executive Directors are non-contributory members of the Companys private health scheme which provides cover forthem and their immediate family, currently defined as their spouse partner and dependant children aged under 25.
Although not a taxable benefit, the Executive Directors participate in the Companys life assurance scheme which pays theirdependants a sum equal to four times their salary if they die during their term of employment by the Company.
Summary of David Buttress' departure terms audited David Buttress stepping down as CEO was announced on 10 February 2017.
David served as our CEO until 31 March 2017 andbecame a Non-executive Director on the expiry of a six-month notice period on 9 August 2017.
Davids transition terms can be summarised as follows: David was paid his base salary, benefits and pension for the duration of his notice period to 9 August 2017.
David did not participate in the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan.
David did not receive a PSP award for 2017, but retains his 2015 and 2016 PSP awards.
However, at the vesting of these awards: 1 the original performance conditions will be applied: 2 time prorating will be applied on the basis of David ceasing to be employed in an executive capacity at 9 August 2017 : and 3 the originally specified two-year postperformance vesting holding periods for these awards will continue to apply.
David retains his JSOP awards.
In accordance with their original terms, these awards will continue to vest in monthly increments.
The final vesting date for any part of the JSOP awards is 1 January 2019.
The performance conditions for these awards have already been met in full.
There has been noacceleration of vesting for these awards.
Summary of Peter Plumb's recruitment terms audited Peters appointment terms are similar to the terms of his 2018 remuneration see pages 77 to 78.
For 2017: Peter was entitled to participate in the 2017 Annual Bonus Plan on a pro rata basis considering the period for which Peter has been in post from 18 September 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Peter was granted a 2017 PSP award on 18 September 2017 over 58,364 shares, being a time prorated award for 2017 atPeters normal annual PSP participation level 200% of base salary for that part of the 2017 financial year for which Peter was employed.
This award is subject to the same performance conditions as the 2017 PSP award to the CFO see pages 80 to 81.
Summary of Paul Harrison Interim Chief Executive Officer terms audited Paul served as the Interim CEO of Just Eat from 28 April 2017 until Peter came into post as CEO on 18 September 2017.
During this period, Paul was paid an incremental annual salary of 100,000 beyond his CFO salary for the period, with the actual amount paid calculated on a per diem basis.
For this period, Paul also received atravel allowance which covered taxable travel expenditure.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 78 Corporate governance External appointments unaudited Paul was a Non-executive Director of Hays plc until 15 November 2017 and currently is a Non-executive Director for Ascential plc.
During 2017, Paul was paid 130,080 in aggregate as Non-executive Directors fees in relation to these roles.
Peter is a Non-executive Director of Co-operative Group.
For the period from 18 September 2017 to 31 December 2017, Peter received 17,732 for this role.
In accordance with the Companys Directors remuneration policy, Peter and Paul are entitled to retain these fees.
Short-term incentives audited Annual Bonus Plan For 2017, bonuses were payable based on certain personal strategic and financial performance targets which had been agreed at the start of the year.
Peter Plumb Paul Harrison Total bonus Total bonus Weighting as % achieved earned % achieved earned % of bonus in 2017 in 2017 Personal strategic measures 30% 10% 30,072 10% 54,300 Financial measures: Revenue targets 35% 35% 105,252 35% 190,050 uEBITDA targets 35% 35% 105,252 35% 190,050 Total bonus achieved 100% 80% 240,576 80% 434,400 Against the specific financial measures each weighted with 35% of total annual bonus potential, out-turns were as follows: Threshold performance On-target performance Maximum performance level for the level for the level for Performance level 2017 annual bonus 2017 annual bonus 2017 annual bonus attained for % of the maximum Performance measure 25% of each element 50% of each element 100% of each element 2017 annual bonus potential achieved Revenue targets 485m 511m 537m 546m 100% uEBITDA targets 139m 146m 161m 164m 100% In calculating the outcomes against financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has, consistent with how it applied the Directors remuneration policy for the annual bonus in past years, used its judgement to exclude the impacts of acquisitions and disposals in the year.
The adjustments removed both the positive and negative impacts of these actions so as to ensure the integrity of measuring performance against the initially set targets, within which these actions were not envisaged.
Likewise, the targets and related outcomes were calculated on a constant currency basis.
The strategic measures 20% of total bonus opportunity related to customer-based metrics and were particularly stretching.
Although progress was made the targets were not achieved and no payments were earned under these elements of the 2017 annual bonus where both Restaurant Partners' and Customers' experiences were considered.
For Peter Plumb and Paul Harrison, personal measures 10% total weighting for the 2017 annual bonus were achieved infull.
As Peter Plumb joined part-way through the year, the personal element of his 2017 annual bonus was determined on the basis of the Interim Chairmans assessment of his personal performance since coming into post.
For Paul Harrison, the personal element of his 2017 annual bonus was determined on the basis of outstanding performance whilst Interim CEO and performance against specific objectives set at the commencement of the 2017 financial year.
These included: a complete review and strengthening of the senior financial team and associated functions: managing UK and international implementation of a revised ERP system: and overseeing the remodelling of Fleet Place House to deliver an outstanding employee experience.
Long-term incentives audited Awards granted under long-term incentive plans with performance conditions attached are included in the single total figure table within the long-term incentive column in the year for which performance conditions are measured.
The April 2015 award under the PSP vests in 2018 and therefore David Buttress is eligible to receive a pro rated award in accordance with his departure terms.
The performance conditions of this award summarised on page 81 have been met in full.
Adjusted diluted EPS for 2017: 10.5 pence required for full vesting 16.6 pence actual.
Upper quintile or better TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 ex IT over the period to 31 December 2017 required for full vesting: upper quintile ranking was percentile 80 Just Eat at percentile 92. www.
com 79 Annual report on remuneration continued Long-term incentives audited continued Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP JSOP awards were made under the JSOP to selected individuals including John Hughes and David Buttress prior to the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange in 2014.
JSOP awards have been structured involving a loan to participants, which is repaid when JSOP shares are sold.
As detailed in the taxable benefits section on page 78, the Company makes annual payments to reimburse participants for the income tax charge that arises on the outstanding loan amount each year.
The JSOP awards vest over time, with 25% on the specified date established on grant and then equally on a quarterly or monthly basis until becoming fully vesting on the fourth anniversary of the vest start date.
Performance conditions which applied to the JSOP awards have already been met in full as reported in prior Directors Remuneration Reports.
Dr. John Hughes' estate elected to exercise his JSOPs and sell his shares after he passed away.
Total of unvested and vested interests excluding those sold.
JSOP interests were sold by David Buttress on 24 August 2017 for 635.60 pence per share resulting in a total gain on sale of 4,987,198.
A further 250,000 shares were transferred out of the JSOP on this date.
Performance Share Plan PSP Details of the PSP awards held by Directors are detailed in the table below: Face value Earliest Latest As at As at of awards exercise date exercise date 1 January Awards Awards Awards 31 December granted of awards of awards Awards 2 1 2017 granted vested exercised 2017 in 2017 granted granted lapsed number number number number number in 2017 in 2017 number David Buttress 330,642 154,497 176,145 Paul Harrison 111,537 111,343 222,880 640,000 15-Mar-22 15-Mar-27 Peter Plumb 58,364 58,364 400,320 18-Sep-22 18-Sep-27 1.
T he face values for the PSP awards made in 2017 have been calculated using the grant price in accordance with the plan rules.
For the awards granted on 15 March 2017, the grant share price was 574.80 pence which is the average share price over five days immediately preceding the grant date.
For the awards made on 18 September 2017 the grant share price was 685.90 pence which is the average share price over five days immediately preceding the grant date.
Details of the performance measures for the PSP awards are on page 81.
T he minimum closing share price in 2017 was 496 pence and the maximum closing share price in 2017 was 824 pence.
The closing share price on 31 December 2017 was 781pence.
Refer to page 78 for David Buttress' departure terms.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 80 Corporate governance Long-term incentives audited continued Performance Share Plan PSP continued The performance measures and targets for the PSP awards made in 2015, 2016 and 2017 were based on adjusted EPS and relative TSR performance as summarised below: 2015 award 2016 award 2017 award 50% growth in 50% growth in 50% growth in Performance measure adjusted EPS and 50% TSR adjusted EPS and 50% TSR adjusted EPS and 50% TSR Adjusted EPS growth Target range between Target range between Target range between 8.5pence and 10.5 pence 11.0pence and 13.8 pence 18.5pence and 23.9 pence 20% of this part vests at threshold for 2017. for 2018. for 2019. performance rising on a pro rata basis until 100% vests.
Measured over three financial years commencing with the year of award.
TSR Target range between median Target range as for 2015.
Target range as for 2015. performance against the 20% of this part vests at threshold constituents of the FTSE 250 performance rising on a pro rata basis excluding investment trusts until 100% vests.
rising on a pro rata basis until Measured over three financial years full vesting for upper quintile commencing with the year of award.
Detail The EPS condition applies to the EPS achieved in the final year only of the three financial year performance period, based on the reported fully diluted EPS subject to such adjustments as the Committee considers appropriate.
The TSR condition compares the TSR over the three months prior to the start of the financial year in which the grant is made with the three months prior to the end of the third financial year.
The comparator group is the constituents of the FTSE 250 ex IT as at the start of the relevant performance period.
The Committee selected these performance conditions as they provide a suitable balance between absolute growth through EPS and relative out-performance through TSR.
Sharesave Plan As at As at 1 January Awards Exercise Awards Awards Awards 31 December 2017 granted price vested exercised lapsed 2017 Earliest Latest number number pence number number number number exercise date exercise date David Buttress 5,521 326.0 5,521 01-Nov-18 30-Apr-19 Paul Harrison 3,461 520.0 3,461 01-Nov-20 30-Apr-21 Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited The tables below detail the total number of Directors interests in shares for the Chairman, any Non-executive Directors with shares and each Executive Director at 31 December 2017: Vested Total interest Unvested JSOP but unsold JSOP Total JSOP PSP in shares David Buttress 268,246 153,282 421,528 176,145 597,673 Paul Harrison 222,880 222,880 Peter Plumb 58,364 58,364 www.
com 81 Annual report on remuneration continued Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited continued Vested Shares Total interest Unvested JSOP but unsold JSOP Total JSOP Sharesave held in shares David Buttress 5,521 750,000 755,521 Paul Harrison 3,461 14,622 18,083 Peter Plumb The shareholdings and awards set out above include those held by any Non-executive Directors with shares and the Executive Directors and their respective connected persons.
Following John Hughes passing away in June 2017, his estate disposed of all interests in Just Eat shares so that no such interests were held by 31 December 2017.
There have been no changes in the interests in shares detailed above between 31 December 2017 and the date of this report.
Under the shareholding guidelines implemented by the Remuneration Committee, Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a shareholding excluding shares held conditionally under any incentive arrangements but including the number of shares to the value of any vested and exercisable interest under the Companys JSOP equivalent to at least 400% of base salary.
At the 2017 year end, Paul Harrison having commenced work on 26 September 2016 and Peter Plumb having commenced work on 18 September 2017 did not comply with this requirement.
In accordance with the Companys shareholding guidelines, Paul Harrison and Peter Plumb will be expected to retain 50% of the Ordinary shares vesting under all share plans, after any disposals for the payment of applicable taxes, until they attain the required level of shareholding.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table unaudited The following graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in Just Eat plc shares from its listing in April 2014 to the end of the 2017 financial year compared with a 100 investment in the FTSE 250 Index ex IT, over the same period.
The FTSE 250 Index ex IT was chosen as a comparator because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company was a constituent for the majority of 2017 although the Company joined the FTSE 100 on 18December 2017.
350 Just Eat FTSE 250 ex IT 300 250 200 150 100 50 Source: Thomson Reuters 25% 0 04 2014 12 2014 12 2015 12 2016 12 2017 The table below details the CEO remuneration over the same period as presented in the TSR graph: Long-term incentive Annual bonus vesting rates Single total payout against figure of against maximum remuneration maximum opportunity % % 1 2017 Peter Plumb 458,293 80% N A 1 2017 David Buttress 903,814 N A 100% 2016 David Buttress 1,273,874 94% N A 2015 David Buttress 5,025,550 100% 100% 2014 David Buttress 3,857,963 100% 100% 1.
In 2017 both David Buttress and Peter Plumb held the role of CEO, and hence two lines are shown.
For David Buttress the figure excludes any amount of Non-executive Directors fees paid for 2017.
As the Company listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 remuneration relates to when Just Eat was a privately owned group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 82 Corporate governance Percentage change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of CEO unaudited The table below presents the year-on-year percentage change in remuneration received by the Chief Executive Officer, compared with the change in average remuneration received by all UK employees.
This was chosen as a suitable comparator group as it includes UK contact centre employees but excludes senior management and international employees who are on different pay structures.
All UK Percentage increase in remuneration between 2016 and 2017 CEO employees Salary 18% 15% Short-term incentives 56% 40% All taxable benefits 35% 604% The data for the CEO in 2016 and 2017 is shown on the basis of a comparison between data for David Buttress in 2016 and a blended position for 2017, reflecting the amounts paid to each of David Buttress, John Hughes, Paul Harrison and Peter Plumb for the part of the year in which each held the role of CEO or Executive Chairman.
The increases in the average salaries and short-term incentives for all UK employees was impacted by the outsourcing of call centre employees in 2017.
Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited The table below details the change in total employee pay between 2016 and 2017, as detailed in Note 7 of the financial statements.
In line with our strategic plans, earnings have been retained for growth and development of the business and therefore no dividends have been paid since in April 2014, prior to the IPO as part of a capital restructuring.
uEBITDA and revenue have been used as a comparative measure as these KPIs are used by the Directors to measure performance.
These measures have been calculated in line with those in the audited financial statements.
2017 2016 % change m m Total gross employee pay 29% 114.0 88.4 Revenue 45% 546.3 375.7 uEBITDA 42% 163.5 115.3 Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration unaudited The following Non-executive Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee during the year: Gwyn Burr, Chairman: Andrew Griffith: and Diego Oliva.
FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT was selected by the Committee in 2014 as its remuneration adviser, after a tender andpresentation process involving four leading firms.
FIT exclusively advises the Committee and does not provide any other advice to the Group, nor does it advise management.
This has, the Committee believes, ensured its objectivity and independence.
FIT is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its voluntary code of conduct in relation to Executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
FITs professional fees for 2017 were 133,826 plus VAT and were charged on the basis of the firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Chief Financial Officer, Chief People Officer and the Company Secretary who attended, by invitation, various Remuneration Committee meetings during the year, although no Executive is permitted to participate in discussions or decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
Statement of voting at the Annual General Meeting unaudited On 27 April 2017, the shareholders approved the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report as detailed in the table below.
Votes for Votes against Votes % of votes cast % of votes cast withheld 2016 Directors Remuneration Report 508,206,654 54,452,744 525,787 90.3% 9.7% The Directors remuneration policy was last approved at the 2015 AGM held on 13 May 2015.
Votes for Votes against Votes % of votes cast % of votes cast withheld Directors remuneration policy 422,824,523 1,839,119 141,000 99.6% 0.4% www.
