Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement other than the Chairman, Richard Jewson, who is paid a fee of As the Board has no executive directors, it does not consider it, pa. necessary to establish a separate remuneration committee.
The Directors remuneration is disclosed later in this Remuneration The fees paid to the current and past Directors in the year to Report.
The Remuneration Report and the Remuneration Policy December, which have been audited, are set out in will be presented at the AGM for Shareholder consideration for the table below.
Nothing further is owed by the Company to approval.
Stephen Smith following his resignation in June.
Directors Remuneration Policy In addition, each Director is entitled to recover all reasonable The Companys policy is to determine the level of Directors expenses properly incurred in connection with performing fees with regard to those payable to Non-Executive Directors his or her duties as a Director.
Directors expenses for the year of comparable REITs generally and the time each Director to December totalled, :, .
No dedicates to the Companys affairs.
other remuneration was paid or payable during the year to any Director.
The Directors are entitled only to their annual fee and their reasonable expenses.
No element of the Directors ANNUAL FEE TOTAL TOTAL remuneration is performance related, nor does any Director DIRECTOR have any entitlement to pensions, share options or any longRichard Jewson Chairman, , , term incentive plans from the Company.
Jim Prower, , , Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are Stephen Smith, , , entitled to the remuneration determined from time to time by Susanne Given, , , the Board.
Aubrey Adams, , N A External advisers As Chairman of the Companys Manager, Mark Shaw is not entitled to receive a fee.
The Board and its Committees have access to sufficient Stephen Smith resigned from the Board on June.
Aubrey Adams was appointed on September.
resources to discharge their duties, which include access to independent remuneration experts, the Company Secretarial team and the Manager and other advisers as required.
The Statement of voting at general meeting Board has not required any additional advice from independent The Company is committed to ongoing Shareholder dialogue remuneration experts.
The Companys advisers are named in and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
If there are this Annual Report and a list of the main advisers can be found substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Directors on page.
remuneration, the Company will seek the reasons for any such vote and will detail any resulting actions in the Directors Annual report on remuneration Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report Richard Jewson was appointed to the Board by a letter of excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy was approved appointment dated November which was updated and by Shareholders at the Companys AGM held on May.
Jim Prower was appointed The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the financial by a letter of appointment dated November.
Mark Shaw statements of the Company for the financial year ended was appointed by a letter of appointment dated November December was approved at the Companys AGM on.
Susanne Given was appointed by a letter dated April.
The next time that the Shareholders will be September.
Aubrey Adams was appointed by a letter asked to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy will be dated September.
No Director has a service contract at the Companys AGM in.
The voting on the respective with the Company, nor are any such contracts proposed.
The resolutions was as shown overleaf.
Directors appointments can be terminated in accordance with the Articles and without compensation.
Each Director, other than Mark Shaw, is entitled to receive a fee from the Company at a rate determined in accordance with the Articles.
The Directors are each paid an annual fee of, pa, See Company Information, page Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Other items FOR AGAINST VOTES RESOLUTION VOTES CAST % % WITHHELD The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, at its expense, on the Directors behalf.
Directors, , , , Remuneration Policy Relative importance of spending on pay Directors, , .., Remuneration Report % CHANGE Voting as at AGM held on April.
Voting as at AGM held on May.
Directors remuneration.. % Total Shareholder return Investment management fees.. % The graph below shows the total Shareholder return as required Dividends paid to Shareholders.. % by company law of the Companys Ordinary Shares relative to a return on a hypothetical holding over the same period in the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE All-Share REIT Index.
Total Shareholder return is the measure of returns provided by a Company to Shareholders reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Richard Jewson Chairman March Directors shareholdings audited There is no requirement for the Directors of the Company to own shares in the Company.
As at the year end, the Directors and their persons closely associated had the shareholdings listed below.
Total Shareholder return p PRICE TOTAL CHANGE RETURN 160 150 48.9% 75.7% 140 35.3% 50.8% 130 120 20.6% 39.2% 110 100 90 80 Tritax Big Box FTSE FTSE All-Share REIT Index 1 Source: Bloomberg and Capital IQ.
Rebased to Tritax Big Box.
PERCENTAGE OF DIVIDENDS NUMBER ISSUED SHARE RECEIVED OF SHARES CAPITAL AS AT DECEMBER DIRECTOR HELD DECEMBER Richard Jewson, .
Includes Directors and persons closely associated as defined by the EU Market Abuse Regulation Shareholdings.
The shareholdings of these Directors are not significant and, therefore, do not compromise their independence.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Dec 13 Mar 13 Jun 13 Sep 13 Dec 14 Mar 14 Jun 14 Sep 14 Dec 15 Mar 15 Jun 15 Sep 15 Dec 16 Mar 16 Jun 16 Sep 16 Dec 17 Mar 17 Jun 17 Sep 17
