Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Our decision around LTIP metrics has involved the most focus and Remuneration detailed consultation with shareholders during our engagement on the Policy.
We'five listened carefully to shareholders' input and we believe the proposal, detailed below, balances some fairly divergent Committee report shareholder views while having strong alignment to our announced strategy and plans.
We'five adapted our Policy in order to gain maximum alignment with these views and we are now confident this approach will be supported by our major shareholders.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, I am At our Capital Markets Day in November 2017, we updated the pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report DRR, for market about our strategy and financial targets for the future, the year ended 31 December 2017.
I also include the details of the specifically: proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy the Earnings per share growth and improved quality of earnings Policy in line with the requirement to obtain our shareholders Capital stewardship, strength and deployment approval of our Policy at least every three years.
Sustainable and consistent dividend growth Aviva has had another strong year of financial results due to our Investing in our future operating model success in engaging customers, employees and the community with our purpose: Defy Uncertainty.
The remuneration decisions detailed As part of our new Directors Remuneration Policy, we are proposing in the DRR reflect the contributions of our Executive Directors ED therefore to adopt the following metrics framework for the LTIP.
in delivering Group performance and in embedding for the long- 1 term the culture and practices that will ensure we continue to fulfil Financial metric Earnings per share EPS growth with gateway 2 hurdles underpins of Return on Equity RoE and Solvency II SII our purpose.
Shareholder Cover Ratio 50% weighting It is clear from discussions with shareholders on our strategy that Policy renewal EPS is a key metric.
For the 2018 LTIP, 50% of the award will be The current Policy was approved at the 2015 Annual General 1 linked to Operating EPS growth and quality of earnings ambition Meeting AGM, and through our engagement with shareholders we shared with our shareholders at our Capital Markets Day.
over the past three years, we have received clear indications of Vesting of this portion of the LTIP can only commence after two support for the current remuneration framework, and for the reward hurdles are met: outcomes approved under it.
2 Return on equity This measure of Operating RoE is reported as In the last year, the Committee has undertaken an extensive review of the Policy.
This has focused on whether the Policy remains part of the capital and assets summary in our annual results announcement.
We will set and disclose a minimum hurdle for 3 fit for purpose and whether changes could be made to improve the 2 years for each grant in determining vesting, our Operating RoE link between the progress being achieved on our strategy and 1 reward outcomes.
We have also consulted extensively with which is calculated consistently with Operating EPS must exceed this hurdle prior to any vesting: and, shareholders and shareholder representatives, and have used this SII Shareholder Cover Ratio we must maintain solvency above Policy proposal to begin a process of ongoing engagement with our the minimum of our stated working range currently 150% to employees as well.
At the end of this review, we are not proposing major structural changes to our Policy as we see it as still being fit for purpose.
This Quality of earnings was a stated ambition at our Capital Markets has been a strong theme of our shareholder interactions.
The Committee has complete discretion to revise any payout however proposing some changes to elements of the Policy as on this metric for example in the event there are concerns with follows: quality of earnings.
The quality of earnings process that underlies No change of approach on basic salary or annual bonus, although each vesting tranche will be detailed in the DRR each year.
we propose to introduce phased vesting over three years for the 1 The Operating EPS targets for each LTIP award will be deferred bonus while leaving deferral at 67%.
The maximum quantum of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP opportunity, and the plan rules used for making LTIP grants will Total Shareholder Return TSR 50% weighting not change: however, it is proposed to make a change to the This will continue to be measured against relevant insurance and metrics.
The application of this metric will continue Pension contributions will be reduced for future ED to be based on achieving upper quintile TSR for maximum vesting, appointments.
whilst upper quartile is the normal market benchmark.
Shareholding requirements are being increased for EDs other than the Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO, who is already required to hold 300% of salary.
1 This measure is derived from the Group adjusted operating profit APM.
Further details of this measure are included in the Other information section.
2 This is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
Further information on APMs, including a reconciliation to the financial statements where possible, can be found in the Other Information section of the Annual report and accounts.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 61 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report No strategic input measure for 2018 2017 Annual bonus Shareholders will note we have decided not to proceed with the Performance at Group level against the financial targets in our proposed inclusion of a strategic category metric for the 2018 LTIP.
bonus scorecard was again strong in 2017.
We have further This was an area where shareholders were split, with some developed our Digital First approach across our businesses while suggesting it is critical to long term value creation, whilst others developing market-leading digital propositions.
The Committee were opposed and felt that the metrics should remain solely has also made its annual assessment of the modifier factors, in financial return focused.
On balance, we did not feel the level of determining the overall bonus scorecard outcome.
support was sufficient to proceed with this metric in 2018 but have 2015 Long Term Incentive Plan included this as a potential category in our Policy for future LTIPs, Vesting of 36.9%, all based on the adjusted RoE performance subject to full consultation and shareholder support.
Such an component and with nothing for the TSR component.
approach is consistent with the metrics adopted by a number of The Committees decisions on annual bonus and on the vesting other insurance and financial services companies in the UK market.
of the 2015 LTIP were made after conducting the quality of earnings It aligns with some clear shareholder views that incentive metrics assessment and risk review for both plans.
The risk review takes into should include a focus on critical strategic inputs, with progress on account the conduct and control environment across the Group.
digital transformation being a high priority at this stage for the Board in its stewardship role.
We believe, therefore, that this Judgement and discretion exercised by the Committee warrants future discussion with shareholders given the strength and The Committee has exercised judgement for the 2015 LTIP vesting range of views.
in respect of performance period 2015 2017.
The re-measurement Over the three years of the Policy, we will continue to consider loss on Friends Provident International Limited FPI and Taiwan how our metrics can best reflect sustainable achievement of results has been excluded from the RoE performance outcome and will be and long term outcomes for our shareholders.
recognised in 2018 upon completion of the sale.
In addition, the Setting an appropriate Policy for the next three years is an positive impact of the 300m share buyback has been removed important enabler for the Group.
The Committee intends to from the RoE performance outcome.
continue to offer an appropriately competitive remuneration framework, while achieving the best alignment possible with Ogden shareholder outcomes.
The Committee considers that the revised Last year, we indicated our intention to address the impact of the Policy achieves this and is seeking approval from shareholders for it Ogden rate change on incentive awards once the UK Government to be effective for three years from the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
established a new methodology for setting the rate.
The rate had been adjusted in March 2017 from 2.5% to minus 0.75%, and set Quality of earnings assessments and risk adjustments with reference to a very low risk investment approach by UK As part of the previous Policy approved in 2015, we introduced a claimants receiving lump sum awards.
The new methodology is still rigorous quality of earnings assessment process as the final step in not yet in place, but the draft legislation released in September decisions on LTIP vesting, and in determining annual bonus 2017 provided clear guidance as to the direction of travel, in scorecard outcomes.
particular that a low risk rather than a very low risk investment The Committee reviews the formulaic vesting outcomes against approach will be used for setting the rate.
The indicative range our reward metrics and our bonus scorecard to ensure the reward remains wide at 0.0% to 1.0%: we therefore believe that the outcomes are appropriate, taking into account a range of factors approach of deferring this item from the assessment of incentives including underlying financial performance, capital management until the new rate is set continues to be the right one.
Shareholder feedback on this has been positive, and it is clear that it is viewed as an integral and important part of our Gender Pay Gap Report GPGR approach to reward, and to how we ensure outcomes against Last year, we outlined our commitment to increasing the focus on targets such as EPS are appropriate.
We have provided more detail our diversity agenda at Aviva and our ambition of inclusivity across on how this process operates in setting out the Policy in the next the Group.
This continues to be central to our values and critical to section.
the success of our business.
Further to the UK GPGR requirements introduced in the UK in April 2017, we released our initial report in Appointment of new director January 2018 along with details of actions we are taking to drive Maurice Tulloch was appointed to the Board on 20 June 2017. change and bridge the gap.
The report can be found at Maurice brings over 25 years experience with Aviva and his www.
com gpgr appointment gives further focus at Board level to the Group's Our gender pay gap data shows that we need to do more to International businesses.
Maurices terms of appointment are create opportunities for women to progress.
We understand the consistent with other EDs and are detailed further in this report.
reasons why we have a gender pay gap and this gives us the best possible chance of doing more to fix it.
We have a significant Remuneration decisions for 2017 challenge ahead of us but, at Aviva, this is about progression and Basic salary not equal pay.
Increase of 2.5% consistent with the budget applied for average We are not proud of the position as it stands and have identified increases in the annual pay review for other Aviva employees in the areas of focus that we believe will have a significant positive impact, UK.
both in continuing to build an inclusive culture and reducing our gender pay gap Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 62 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Forward looking application of policy for 2018 Salary Increase of 3% consistent with other Aviva employees in the UK.
These increases are in line with expectations around market movements and inflation in the UK and are consistent with overall increases being applied across our UK-based employees.
Bonus 30% of the annual bonus scorecard will be linked to progress on our Digital First strategy.
The measure will focus on growth in customers with multiple product holdings MPH and the number of MyAviva active customers.
2018 LTIP In 2018, maximum awards under the LTIP will be in line with previous years.
300% of salary for the Group CEO and 225% for the Chief Financial Officer CFO, the Chief Executive Officer UK Insurance CEO UKI and the Chief Executive Officer International CEO International.
The performance conditions are detailed in table 22.
Committee changes during the year Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson stepped down from the Board and from the Committee during 2017 and I would like to thank them both for their hard work and commitment during their tenures.
Glyn Barker joined the Committee in May 2017 and brings with him a deep understanding of accounting and regulatory issues together with in-depth transactional and financial services experience.
Priorities for 2018 Key priorities for 2018 include the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code Code, expected to be in the summer 2018.
The draft Code includes proposals to: widen the remit of remuneration committees: and require companies to report on what engagement has taken place with the workforce to explain how executive remuneration aligns with the wider company policy.
There will also be UK legislation requiring companies to publish pay ratios between the CEO and the average UK employee.
We will report on pay ratios in the 2018 DRR, as, by then, the methodology to calculate the pay ratio should have been published.
In the meantime, we are reporting the ratio of the Group CEOs pay relative to other members of the Group Executive GE.
Based on this years pay decisions, the Group CEO earns approximately 2.1 times more than the GE average and 1.8 times more than the average for the other EDs.
The percentage change in Group CEO pay for 2017 versus other UK based employees is reported in table 13.
We are committed to ensuring alignment between pay and performance and believe that the outcomes for 2017 and the changes we are proposing to make to the Policy in 2018 support this.
I look forward to seeing shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Patricia Cross Chair, Remuneration Committee 7 March 2018.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 63 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy for directors is set out in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as amended and the Large & Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
Alignment of Group strategy with executive remuneration The Committee considers that alignment between Group strategy and the remuneration of its EDs is critical.
Our Remuneration Policy provides market competitive remuneration, and incentivises EDs to achieve both the annual business plan and the longer-term strategic objectives of the Group.
Significant levels of deferral and an aggregate shareholding requirement align EDs interests with those of shareholders, aid retention of key personnel, and assist in focussing the EDs on long-term enterprise value creation.
As well as rewarding the achievement of objectives, variable remuneration can be zero.
The proposed Policy is subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM on 10 May 2018.
If approved, it will apply immediately, for up to three years.
Table 1 below provides an overview of the proposed Policy for EDs and highlights the proposed changes from the existing Policy.
For an overview of the proposed Policy for Non Executive Directors NEDs see table 3.
1 Key aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Element Basic salary Purpose Maximum opportunity No changes To provide core market related pay to attract and retain There is no maximum increase within the Policy.
However, proposed the required level of talent.
basic salary increases take account of the average basic salary increase awarded to the broader employee Operation population.
Different levels of increase may be agreed in Annual review, with changes normally taking effect from certain circumstances at the Committees discretion, such 1 April each year.
The review is informed by: as: Individual and business performance An increase in job scope and responsibility Levels of increase for the broader employee population Development of the individual in the role Relevant pay data including market practice among A significant increase in the size, value or complexity of relevant FTSE listed companies of comparable size to the Group Aviva in terms of market capitalisation, large European and global insurers and UK financial services companies Assessment of performance Any movement in basic salary takes account of the performance of the individual and the Group.
Purpose Maximum opportunity Annual Bonus To reward EDs for achievement against the Companys 200% of basic salary for Group CEO Changes proposed 150% of basic salary for other EDs strategic objectives and for demonstrating the Aviva values and behaviours.
Outcome at threshold and on target Deferral provides alignment with shareholder Performance is assessed against multiple metrics.
interests and aids retention of key personnel.
Threshold performance against a single metric would Operation result in a bonus payment of no more than 25% of basic Awards are based on performance in the year.
set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the 100% of basic salary is payable for on target performance.
Committee based on performance against those targets and a quality of earnings assessment and risk review.
Assessment of performance Form & timing of payment Performance is assessed against a range of relevant One-third of any bonus is payable in cash at the end of financial, employee, customer and risk targets designed the year to incentivise the achievement of our strategy, as well as Two-thirds of any bonus awarded is deferred into shares individual strategic objectives as set by the Committee.
which vest in three equal annual tranches Although financial performance is the major factor in considering overall expenditure on bonuses, performance Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu of against non-financial measures including progress dividends paid on the deferred shares.
towards our strategic priorities and behaviours in line with our values will also be taken into consideration.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 64 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Element Malus and clawback Discretion Cash and deferred awards are subject to malus and The Committee has discretion to amend vesting levels to clawback.
Details of when these may be applied are set prevent unreasonable outcomes, which it may use taking out in the notes below.
into account a range of factors, including the management of risk and good governance, the quality of earnings and, in all cases, the experience of shareholders.
Proposed changes to policy For awards in respect of 2018 onwards, vesting occurs in three equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversaries after grant rather than at the end of three years as under the previous policy.
Long-term Purpose Maximum opportunity incentive plan To reward EDs for achievement against the Companys 350% of basic salary.
Changes longer-term objectives, to align EDs interests with those proposed of shareholders, to aid the retention of key personnel, and Performance measures to encourage focus on long-term growth in enterprise Awards will vest based on a combination of financial, strategic and TSR performance metrics.
awards the measures and weightings will be: 1 Operation 50% Operating EPS growth subject to two gateway 2 Shares are awarded annually which vest dependent on hurdles Operating RoE and SII Shareholder Cover the achievement of performance conditions.
Vesting is Ratio subject to an assessment of quality of earnings, the 50% TSR against a comparator group stewardship of capital and risk review.
The financial metric combined with TSR will be a minimum of 80% of the total LTIP award.
If, in subsequent Performance period Three years.
years, shareholders indicate support for strategic measures, the Policy will allow for up to 20% LTIP to be awarded on the basis of strategic measures and this will Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu of dividends on any shares which vest.
be fully disclosed in the DRR.
Additional holding period Vesting at threshold Two years.
20% of award for each performance measure.
Malus and clawback Discretion Awards are subject to malus and clawback.
Details of The Committee has discretion to amend vesting levels to when these may be applied are set out in the notes below.
prevent unreasonable outcomes, which it may use taking into account a range of factors, including the management of risk and good governance, the quality of earnings, and, in all cases, the experience of shareholders.
Proposed changes to policy The performance measures and weightings set out above will replace the previous measures being 50% adjusted performance RoE and 50% TSR against a comparator group.
Pension Purpose Maximum opportunity Changes To give a market competitive level of provision for postIf suitable employee contributions are made, the proposed retirement income.
Company contributes: 20% of basic salary for new ED appointments Operation 28% of basic salary for existing EDs EDs are eligible to participate in a defined contribution into pension or paid as cash as applicable.
plan up to the annual limit.
Proposed changes to policy Any amounts above annual or lifetime limits are paid in Lower limit introduced on pension levels for new ED cash.
Benefits Purpose Maximum opportunity No changes To provide EDs with a suitable but reasonable package of Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate proposed benefits as part of a competitive remuneration package.
against comparable roles in companies of a similar size This involves both core executive benefits, and the and complexity to provide a reasonable level of benefit.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 65 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Element opportunity to participate in flexible benefits programmes Costs would normally be limited to providing a cash car offered by the Company via salary sacrifice.
allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance, and This enables us to attract and retain the right level of reasonable travel benefits including the tax cost where talent necessary to deliver the Companys strategy.
In addition, there may be one-off or exceptional items on a case by case basis, which would be Operation disclosed in the DRR.
Benefits are provided on a market related basis.
The Company reserves the right to deliver benefits to EDs depending on their individual circumstances, which may include a cash car allowance, life insurance, private medical insurance and access to a company car and driver for business use.
In the case of non-UK executives, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard relevant market practice.
EDs are eligible to participate in the Companys broad based employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Relocation Purpose Maximum opportunity and mobility To assist with mobility across the Group to ensure the Dependent on location and family size, benefits are No changes appropriate talent is available to execute our strategy market related and time bound.
They are not proposed locally.
compensation for performing the role but are intended to defray costs of a relocation or residence outside the home Operation country.
Employees who are relocated or reassigned from one The Committee would pay no more than it judged location to another receive relevant benefits to assist reasonably necessary, in the light of all applicable them and their dependants in moving home and settling circumstances.
Shareholding Purpose Proposed changes to policy requirements To align EDs interests with those of shareholders.
Shareholding requirements for other EDs has been Changes increased from 150%.
proposed Operation A requirement to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 300% of basic salary for the Group CEO and 200% of basic salary for other EDs.
This shareholding is normally to be built up over a period not exceeding 5 years subject to the Committees discretion where personal circumstances dictate.
Further details of this measure are included in the Other information section of the Annual report and accounts.
Notes to the table: Performance measures For the annual bonus, performance measures are chosen to align to some of the Groups key performance indicators and include financial, strategic, risk, employee and customer measures.
Achievement against individual strategic objectives is also taken into account.
LTIP performance measures are chosen to provide an indication of both absolute and relative return generated for shareholders.
In terms of target setting, a number of reference points are taken into account each year including, but not limited to, the Groups business plan and external market expectations of the Company.
Maximum payouts require performance that significantly exceeds expected performance under both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Quality of earnings assessments Throughout the year, the Committee engages in a regular quality of earnings assessment.
A quality of earnings assessment sign-off is the final step in determining annual bonus scorecard outcomes, and in making decisions on LTIP vesting.
This sign-off is undertaken before decisions are made on the modifiers for risk, customer and employee engagement under the annual bonus, and before vesting is determined against financial metrics under the LTIP.
As a minimum, at any Committee meeting where LTIP vesting or annual bonus scorecard decisions are considered, the Chief Accounting Officer prepares a report to the Committee on the quality of earnings reflected in the results being assessed against performance targets.
Extensive information from the audited accounts is used to explain the vesting and scorecard outcomes ranging from movements in reserves, capital management decisions, consistency of accounting treatment and period to period comparability.
The Chief Accounting Officer attends the Committee meeting to answer any questions that any member of the Committee may choose to ask.
Any vesting decision or confirmation of awards is made after this process has been undertaken.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 66 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Malus and Clawback The circumstances when malus the forfeiture or reduction of unvested shares awarded under the Annual Bonus Plan ABP and LTIP and clawback the recovery of cash and share awards after release may apply include but are not limited to where the Committee considers that the employee concerned has been involved in or partially wholly responsible for: A materially adverse misstatement of the Companys financial statements, or a misleading representation of performance: A significant failure of risk management and or controls: A scenario or event which causes material reputational damage to the Company: Misconduct which, in the opinion of the Committee, ought to result in the complete or partial lapse of an award: Conduct which resulted in significant loss es : Failure to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety: or Any other circumstance required by local regulatory obligations.
The clawback period runs for two years from the date of payment in the case of the cash element of any annual bonus award.
For deferred bonus elements and LTIP awards, the overall malus and clawback period is five years from the date of grant.
Discretions The discretions the Committee has in relation to the operation of the ABP and LTIP are set out in the plan rules.
These include but are not limited to the ability to set additional conditions and the discretion to change or waive those conditions.
In relation to the LTIP and in accordance with its terms, the Committee has discretion in relation to vesting and to waive or change a performance condition if anything happens which causes the Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate to do so.
Such discretions would only be applied in exceptional circumstances, to ensure that awards properly reflect underlying business performance.
Any use of the discretions and how they were exercised will be disclosed, where relevant, in the DRR and, where appropriate, be subject to consultation with Avivas shareholders.
Change in control In the event of a change in control, unless a new award is granted in exchange for an existing award, or if there is a significant corporate event like a demerger, awards under the LTIP would normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied as at the date of the change in control, and unless the Committee decides otherwise, would be pro-rated to reflect the time between the start of the performance period and the change in control event.
Awards under the ABP would normally vest on the date of the change in control and may vest if there is a significant corporate event.
Consistency of executive Policy across the Group The Policy for our EDs is designed as part of the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Remuneration arrangements for employees below the EDs take account of the seniority and nature of the role, individual performance and local market practice.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees may therefore differ from the Policy for EDs.
Any such elements are reviewed against market practice and approved in line with internal guidelines and frameworks.
Differentiation in reward outcomes based on performance and behaviour that is consistent with the Aviva values is a feature of how Aviva operates its annual bonus plan for its senior leaders and managers globally.
A disciplined approach is taken to moderation across the Company in order to recognise and reward the key contributors.
The allocation of LTIP awards also involves strong differentiation, with expected contribution and ability to collaborate effectively in implementation of the strategy driving award levels.
Legacy payments The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before May 2014 the date the Companys first Policy came into effect, ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Policy in force at the time they were agreed, or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Approach to recruitment remuneration On hiring a new ED, the Committee would align the proposed remuneration package with the Policy in place for EDs at the time of the appointment.
In determining the actual remuneration for a new ED, the Committee would consider the package in totality, taking into account elements such as the skills and experience of the individual, local market benchmarks, remuneration practice, and the existing remuneration of other senior executives.
The Committee would ensure any arrangements agreed would be in the best interests of Aviva and its shareholders.
It would seek not to pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate.
Where considered appropriate, the Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee would take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which it was paid e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
Buyout awards would be awarded on a like for like basis compared to remuneration being forfeited, and would be capped to reflect the value being forfeited.
The Committee considers that a buyout award is a significant investment in human capital by Aviva, and any buyout decision will involve careful consideration of the contribution that is expected from the individual.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 67 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued The maximum level of variable pay which could be awarded to a new ED, excluding any buyouts, would be in line with the Policy set out above and would therefore be no more than 550% of basic salary for the Group CEO 200% of basic salary annual bonus opportunity and 350% of basic salary as the face value of a LTIP grant and 500% of basic salary for other EDs 150% of basic salary annual bonus opportunity and 350% of basic salary as the face value of a LTIP grant.
All other elements of remuneration will also be in line with the Policy set out above.
Should the Company have any prior commitments outside of this Policy in respect of an employee promoted internally to an ED position, the Committee may continue to honour these for a period of time.
Where an ED is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an ED is appointed following Avivas acquisition of, or merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions may be honoured.
On appointing a new NED, the Committee would align the remuneration package with the Policy for NEDs, outlined in table 3, including fees and travel benefits.
Illustration of the policy The charts below illustrate how much EDs could earn under different performance scenarios in one financial year: Minimum basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension and benefits, no bonus and no vesting of the LTIP Target basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension, benefits, and: A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 300% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the Group CEO: and A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 225% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the CFO, CEO UKI and CEO International.
Maximum basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension, benefits, and: A bonus of 200% and an LTIP of 300% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the Group CEO: and A bonus of 150% and an LTIP of 225% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the CFO, CEO UKI and CEO International.
Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Andy Briggs Maurice Tulloch Potential earnings Potential earnings Potential earnings Potential earnings by pay element by pay element by pay element by pay element m 6.8 7 47% 6 5 4.1 3.8 4 3.8 3.7 39% 44% 2.6 44% 31% 2.5 3 2.6 44% 32% 32% 32% 26% 2 1.5 29% 30% 1.0 28% 1.0 29% 29% 1.0 29% 35% 1 22% 100% 100% 100% 39% 27% 40% 27% 100% 39% 26% - 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Notes to the charts Fixed pay consists of basic salary, pension as described in table 1, and estimated value of benefits provided under the Remuneration Policy, excluding any one offs.
Actual figures may vary in future years.
The value of the LTIP and deferred element of the annual bonus assumes a constant share price and does not include additional shares awarded in lieu of dividends that may have been accrued during the vesting period.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 68 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Employment contracts and letters of appointment ED employment contracts and NED letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2018 AGM from 10.45am on 10 May 2018 until the close of the meeting.
The key employment terms and conditions of the current EDs, and those who served during the year, as stipulated in their employment contracts, are set out in the table below.
2 Executive Directors key conditions of employment Provision Policy Notice period By the ED 6 months.
By the Company 12 months, rolling.
No notice or payment in lieu of notice to be paid where the Company terminates for cause.
Termination Payment Pay in lieu of notice up to a maximum of 12 months basic salary.
Any payment is subject to phasing and mitigation requirements.
An ED would be expected to mitigate the loss of office by seeking alternative employment.
Any payments in lieu of notice would be reduced, potentially to zero, by any salary received from such employment.
Remuneration and Benefits The operation of the annual bonus and LTIP is at the Companys discretion.
Expenses Reimbursement of expenses reasonably incurred in accordance with their duties.
Car Allowance A cash car allowance is received, as varied from time to time.
Holiday entitlement 30 working days plus public holidays.
Private medical insurance Private medical insurance is provided for the ED and their family.
The ED can choose to opt out of this benefit or take a lower level of cover.
However, no payments are made in lieu of reduced or no cover.
Other benefits Other benefits include participation in the Companys staff pension scheme, life insurance and, where applicable, access to a Company car and driver for business related use.
Sickness In the case of Mark, Tom and Andy, 100% of basic salary for 52 weeks, and 75% thereafter for a further 52 weeks.
In the case of Maurice, 100% of salary for the first 26 weeks, thereafter long term disability insurance may apply.
Non-compete During employment and for six months after leaving less any period of garden leave without the prior written consent of the Company.
Contract dates Director: Date current contract commenced: Mark Wilson 1 January 2013 Tom Stoddard 28 April 2014 Andy Briggs 13 April 2015 Maurice Tulloch 20 June 2017 Policy on payment for loss of office There are no pre-determined ED special provisions for compensation for loss of office.
The Committee has the ability to exercise its discretion on the final amount actually paid.
Any compensation would be based on basic salary, pension entitlement and other contractual benefits during the notice period, or a payment made in lieu of notice, depending on whether the notice is worked.
Where notice of termination of a contract is given, payments to the ED would continue for the period worked during the notice period.
Alternatively, the contract may be terminated and phased monthly payments made in lieu of notice for, or for the balance of, the 12 months notice period.
During this period, EDs would be expected to mitigate their loss by seeking alternative employment.
Payments in lieu of notice would be reduced by the salary received from any alternative employment, potentially to zero.
The Company would typically make a reasonable contribution towards an EDs legal fees in connection with advice on the terms of their departure.
There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus for the year in which loss of office occurs.
The Committee may determine that an ED may receive a pro-rata bonus in respect of the period of employment during the year loss of office occurs based on an assessment of performance.
Where an ED leaves the Company by reason of death, disability or ill health, or any other reason determined by the Committee, there may be a payment of a pro rata bonus for the relevant year at the discretion of the Committee.
The treatment of leavers under the ABP and LTIP is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
Good leaver status under these plans would be granted in the event of, for example, the death of an ED.
Good leaver status for other leaving reasons is at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account the circumstances of the individuals departure, but would typically include planned retirement, or their departure on ill health grounds.
In circumstances where good leaver status has been granted, awards may still be subject to malus and clawback in the event that inappropriate conduct of the ED is subsequently discovered post departure.
If good leaver status is not granted, all outstanding awards will lapse.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 69 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued In the case of LTIPs, where the Committee determines EDs to be good leavers, vesting is normally based on the extent to which performance conditions have been met at the end of the relevant performance period, and the proportion of the award that vests is prorated for the time from the date of grant to final date of service unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Any decision not to apply this would only be made in exceptional circumstances, and would be fully disclosed.
It is not the practice to allow such treatment.
Consideration of wider employee pay and shareholder views When determining the Policy and arrangements for our EDs, the Committee considers: Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure that pay structures are suitably aligned and that levels of remuneration remain appropriate.
The Committee reviews levels of basic salary increases for other employees and executives based in their respective locations.
It reviews changes in overall bonus pool funding and long-term incentive grants.
The Committee considers feedback on pay matters from sources including the employee opinion survey and employee forums.
The Committee also takes into account information provided by the people function and external advisers and from 2018, the Committee Chair has commenced a programme of consultation and meetings with employees to discuss remuneration.
Its ongoing dialogue with shareholders, the Committee seeks shareholder views and takes them into account when any significant changes are being proposed to remuneration arrangements and when formulating and implementing the Policy.
For example, there has been detailed engagement with our largest shareholders regarding the proposed Policy during 2017 continuing into 2018.
Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out details of our Policy for NEDs.
3 Key aspects of the Policy for Non-Executive Directors Element Chairman and NEDs Purpose Maximum opportunity fees To attract individuals with the required range of skills The Companys Articles of Association provide that No changes proposed and experience to serve as a Chairman or as a NED.
the total aggregate remuneration paid to the Chairman of the Company and NEDs will be Operation determined by the Board within the limits set by NEDs receive a basic annual fee in respect of their shareholders and detailed in the Companys Articles Board duties.
Further fees are paid for membership of Association.
and, where appropriate, chairing Board committees.
The Chairman receives a fixed annual fee.
Fees are reviewed annually taking into account market data and trends and the scope of specific Board duties.
NEDs are able to use up to 100 percent of their posttax base fees to acquire shares in Aviva plc.
The Chairman and NEDs do not participate in any incentive or performance plans or pension arrangements and do not receive an expense allowance.
NEDs are reimbursed for reasonable expenses, and any tax arising on those expenses is settled directly by Aviva.
To the extent that these are deemed taxable benefits, they will be included in the DRR, as required.
Chairmans Travel Purpose The Chairman has access to a company car and driver Benefits To provide the Chairman with suitable travel for business use.
Where these are deemed a taxable No changes proposed arrangements for him to discharge his duties benefit, the tax is paid by the Company.
NED Travel and Purpose Operation Accommodation To reimburse NEDs for appropriate business travel Reasonable costs of travel and accommodation for No changes proposed and accommodation, including attending Board and business purposes are reimbursed to NEDs.
limited occasions when it is appropriate for a NEDs spouse or partner to attend, such as to a business event, the Company will meet these costs.
The Company will meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 70 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued The NEDs, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below.
4 Non-Executive Directors key terms of appointment Provision Policy Period In line with the requirement of the Code, all NEDs, including the Chairman, are subject to annual reelection by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination By the director or the Company at their discretion without compensation upon giving one months written notice for NEDs and three months written notice for the Chairman of the Company.
Expenses Reimbursement of travel and other expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties.
Time commitment Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
Committee appointments 1 2 Director Nomination Audit Governance Remuneration Risk Appointment date Appointment end date Sir Adrian Montague C 14 January 2013 AGM 2018 Claudia Arney C 8 February 2016 AGM 2018 Glyn Barker 27 February 2012 AGM 2018 Patricia Cross C 1 December 2013 AGM 2018 Beln Romana Garca 26 June 2015 AGM 2018 Michael Hawker C 1 January 2010 AGM 2018 Michael Mire 12 September 2013 AGM 2018 Keith Williams C 1 August 2016 AGM 2018 Key C Chair of Committee Committee member Notes 1 The dates shown above reflect the date the individual was appointed to the Aviva plc Board.
2 Appointment end dates are in accordance with the letter of appointment.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 71 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Committee.
They are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Annual report on Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct.
Deloitte LLP also provided advice to the Group on taxation, financial due diligence, crisis management and other consulting services including advice remuneration in relation to corporate and cyber opportunities.
Tapestry Compliance LLP, appointed by the Company, provided advice on share incentive plan related matters, including on senior executive remuneration matters and views on shareholder perspectives.
During the year, Deloitte LLP were paid fees totalling 149,800, This section of the report sets out how Aviva has implemented its and Tapestry Compliance LLP were paid fees totalling 51,655 for Policy for EDs during the course of 2017, and how the proposed their advice to the Committee on these matters.
Fees were charged Policy will be implemented for 2018.
This is in accordance with the on a time plus expenses basis.
requirements of the Large & Medium Sized Companies and Groups The Committee reflects on the quality of the advice provided Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
and whether it properly addresses the issues under consideration The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on as part of its normal deliberations.
The Committee is satisfied that the Companys website at www.
com remunerationthe advice received during the year was objective and independent.
committee and are also available from the Group General Counsel The Committees decisions are taken in the context of the and Company Secretary.
Reward Governance Framework, which sets out the key policies, guidelines and internal controls and is summarised on the next Committee membership page.
The members of the Committee are shown below.
Sir Malcolm Williamson and Bob Stein retired from the Committee performance and effectiveness Committee after the conclusion of the AGM on 10 May 2017.
Glyn In 2017, the Committee undertook an external evaluation of its Barker joined the Committee in May 2017. effectiveness, alongside the exercise undertaken by the Board.
Further details on how this has been carried out and the actions Years on the Member Since Committee arising are contained in the Directors and Corporate Governance Patricia Cross 01 12 2013 4 report.
Michael Mire 14 05 2015 3 Committee activities and agenda time during 2017 Claudia Arney 01 06 2016 1 Governance, regulatory issues and reporting policy 41% Glyn Barker 10 05 2017 1 Engaged external advisors to advise on changes in the regulatory Bob Stein 06 03 2013 4 environment and developments in the UK corporate governance Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 3 framework, and to benchmark the companys remuneration Chair policies and practices against industry best practice.
Retired from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting 10 May 2017 Discussed the mandatory GPGR due to come into force in 2018, and agreed the range of reportable metrics and a strategy to Consideration by the Committee of matters relating make progress against them.
to directors remuneration The Committee met seven times during 2017, of which five were Formulated and developed a new proposed Policy to be put scheduled meetings and two were additional meetings outside of forward for shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM, taking into the normal timetable.
Details of attendance at Committee meetings account the views of shareholders.
Focussed on the alignment of the remuneration policy with an The Group Chairman attended all meetings of the Committee.
appropriate risk culture and to appropriate sustainability metrics The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acted as including an approach on Ogden.
The Chair of the Committee reported to Regularly reviewed the results of engagements with key investors, subsequent meetings of the Board on the Committees work and including discussions on the relationship between senior the Board received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each management remuneration policies and the companys strategic meeting of the Committee.
The Committee received assistance in considering executive Reviewed the implementation of the Groups Remuneration remuneration from members of senior management, including: Standard and Policy.
the Group CEO: Approved the 2016 DRR.
the CFO: Senior management objectives, bonus target setting and pay the Chief People Officer: decisions 31% the Group Reward Director: Using external advisors reviewed and benchmarked Group CEO the Chief Accounting Officer: remuneration in relation to his performance in 2016 and against the Chief Audit Officer: both a FTSE 50 and a financial services peer group.
the Group Chief Risk Officer: and Reviewed and approved the individual remuneration for each the Remuneration Committee Chair of Aviva Investors.
member of the GE for 2017 in relation to their performance against personal targets.
These people attended meetings by invitation during the year.
No Reviewed the fees payable to independent NEDs on subsidiary person was present during any discussion relating to their own boards in relation to the strategic rationale and comparator remuneration.
During the year, the Committee received advice on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP who were appointed by the Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 72 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Share plan operation and performance testing 28% Approved the Aviva Investors 2016 Bonus Deferral Plan and the Reviewed performance testing of all existing LTIP awards, and identification of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA approved targets for the 2017 LTIP awards.
Remuneration Code staff Material Risk Takers.
Discussed and approved the overall maximum bonus pool Approved vesting of the 2014 LTIP and noted the interim testing available to senior managers for the 2017 performance year, for 2015 and 2016 awards.
taking into account metrics on culture and risk as well as on Reviewed the proposed changes to future LTIP grants.
Approved the terms of the Aviva Savings Related Share Option Discussed and approved the ABP targets for 2017 in relation to the Scheme 2017 SAYE and the Aviva Ireland Save as You Earn financial targets set in the 2017-2019 Group plan.
Scheme, the Ireland Profit Share Scheme and the invitation terms Reviewed the strategic ambition targets set for 2017 in relation to for eligible employees.
the companys Digital First strategy including the number of Reviewed and approved the Aviva Investors Carried Interest Plan, active digital registrations and the volume of sales made.
Deferred Plan rules and Code Staff list.
Reviewed and approved any applications of malus clawback provisions under incentive plans.
Reward governance framework Terms of reference, policies and guidelines Control and assurance Remuneration Committee terms of reference Reward Sets out the Committees scope and responsibilities, including authorities which may Remuneration approvals Terms of be delegated but which still retain Committee oversight business matrix reference Subsidiary Board Remuneration Committee terms of reference standard Sets out the Subsidiary Remuneration Committees scope and responsibilities Approval Assurance requirements Global remuneration policy Directors Remuneration Policy framework to to ensure Overarching Approved by the Committee, applies to Proposed for approval by shareholders, attest reward reward policy all employees at entities within Aviva applies to Directors of Aviva plc operations are operations Group conducted are Variable compensation and risk within the conducted adjustment Other key Identification of global within the Malus and clawback functions and remuneration remuneration global includes bonus, LTIP, buy-out, policies regulated staff policy, remuneration retention, recognition awards and Directors policy, funding Remuneration Directors Examples of Policy and Remuneration New hires & buyouts Terminations Risk adjustment supporting Policy and internal policies supporting guidelines policies and policies Retention plans Recognition awards Global mobility Element of the reward governance framework Element of the reward governance framework Key managed mainly under delegated authority from the managed as part of the business of the Committee Committee Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 73 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Single total figures of remuneration for 2017 The table below sets out the total remuneration for 2017 and 2016 for each of our EDs.
2 The benefits disclosure includes the cost, where relevant, of private medical insurance, life insurance, accommodation, travel and car benefits.
In the case of Mark and Andy this also includes benefits resulting from the UK HMRC tax-advantaged SAYE plan, and for Andy the UK HMRC tax-advantaged share incentive plan All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP, in which they participate on the same basis as all eligible employees.
All numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benefits, where applicable.
3 Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at the face value at the date of award.
The deferred element is made under the ABP.
4 The value of the LTIP for 2017 relates to the 2015 award, which had a three-year performance period ending 31 December 2017.
36.9% of the award will vest in March 2018.
An assumed share price of 502.19. pence has been used to determine the value of the award based on the average share price over the final quarter of the 2017 financial year.
The LTIP amounts shown in last years report in respect of the LTIPs awarded in 2014 were also calculated with an assumed share price of 456.27 pence.
The actual share price at vesting was 525.07 pence, leading to an increase in value.
The estimated value of the awards for the EDs was 1,718,000: the actual value was 1,977,000 increase of 259,000.
5 Pension contributions consist of employer defined contribution benefits, excluding salary exchange contributions made by the employees, plus cash payments in lieu of pension.
EDs are eligible to participate in a defined contribution plan and receive pension contributions and or a cash pension allowance from the Company in aggregate totaling 28% of basic salary.
6 For Maurice, his 2017 values only relate to his qualifying services as a Director of Aviva from 20 June 2017, when he was appointed as an ED.
His basic salary, bonus and benefits are set in Canadian dollars and have been converted to sterling using an average exchange rate for 2017.
7 Year on year increase is due to an additional ED and the first payout under the LTIP for Andy.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table 2017 annual bonus outcome The Groups financial performance, together with non-financial modifiers and personal performance have been used to determine ED bonuses paid in respect of 2017.
We have set out details of performance against the financial and non-financial metrics for 2017 in tables 6 and 7 below.
As set out in the tables, the bonuses reflect the fact that the fundamentals around our cash position, strategy and culture are 2 in good shape.
The results come amidst unprecedented political, economic and technological changes.
We have grown Operating EPS, 2 cash remittances and further strengthened our estimated SII shareholder position.
In determining the bonus awards, the Committee took into account the wider performance of Aviva and the experience of shareholders during the year, and is satisfied that the bonus awards above are fair in light of those considerations.
One-third of the bonus award for all EDs will be delivered in cash, with two-thirds being deferred into shares for three years.
Other items of remuneration The EDs have not received any items in the nature of remuneration other than those disclosed in table 1.
Malus and Clawback As part of the annual pay review process, the Committee has considered whether any recovery or withholding under the malus and clawback provisions of Avivas incentive plans is required by any current circumstances.
No incidents concerning the EDs are currently subject to action under Avivas malus and clawback policy.
2017 Annual bonus disclosure of performance against targets The table below sets out performance against targets.
The overall scorecard outcome percentage applies to all of the EDs.
The individual bonus decisions for the EDs, explained in the notes below table 7, are determined after taking into account this scorecard assessment and their respective personal performance.
6 2017 performance against bonus scorecard for ED bonuses Financial Metrics Weighting Minimum Target Maximum Outcome 1 Adjusted IFRS EPS 30.0% 40.1p 43.3p 46.5p 48.3p 2 Net Cash Remittances 15.0% 1,758m 1,900m 2,043m 2,171m 2 Operating Capital Generation 30.0% 1,472m 1,672m 1,872m 2,576m Total Financial Metrics 75.0% 150% Strategic Progress UK digital revenues m 12.5% 1.3m 1.5m 1.7m 1.5m MyAviva active registrations m 12.5% 5.6m 7.0m 8.4m 7.5m 3 Score before modifier decision 178% Modifier decision 0% 4 Overall scorecard assessment 178% Notes 1 Adjusted IFRS EPS is calculated based on IFRS profit after tax and non controlling interest but excluding investment variances, economic adjustment changes, AVIF amortisation, profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries and pension scheme income charge divided by weighted average number of shares.
3 Modifier decisions include employee, customer and risk and control.
4 This is a key factor in determining individual bonuses for EDs along with personal performance.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 74 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Under the ABP, the bonus scorecard outcome can be modified by the performance of the employee, customer and risk and controls modifiers.
Typically, adjustments if made would be in the range of - 15% but for major risk or controls or customer issues e. g. concerning conduct a considerably greater adjustment could be made.
For 2017, no adjustment has been made in relation to the modifier factors.
7 2017 non-financial modifiers relating to bonus scorecard Modifier Assessment Employee Employee engagement is up one percentage point to 75% after significant improvements Employee engagement.
for France and Singapore and a four percentage point increase for UK Customer teams.
85% of colleagues see how their teams work aligns with the Groups strategy.
Customer Our relationship NPS survey shows three years of sustained high levels of customer Performance against our Net Promoter advocacy, but this years scores have marked a decline.
We are working hard to boost Score NPS targets and our overall focus customers loyalty by making things simple for customers and putting them in control, for on customer outcomes.
example with the launch of our simplified home insurance proposition.
Risk & Controls All our businesses functions were rated as acceptable or above, against their overall goal in Avivas reward strategy includes specific relation to risk, conduct and control outcomes.
The assessments performed by our Risk and risk and control objectives for senior Internal Audit functions looked at the effectiveness and robustness of the risk framework management and EDs.
The aim is to help and control environment.
The outputs of the assessments were shared with the Risk and drive and reward effective risk Audit Committees ahead of decisions being made on impacts to bonus.
It was concluded management and a robust control that no areas had been identified that would warrant bonus pool adjustments as part of environment across the Group.
Individual bonus outcomes for EDs While the modified outcome against the bonus scorecard provides a pool of funding for bonuses, actual bonus decisions are made based on individual contribution and achievements, how the person has assisted the Group achieve progress against its strategic objectives, the leadership they have exhibited and how the individual has demonstrated the Aviva values.
Each ED has a target and a maximum opportunity against which this is assessed.
Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard The Aviva Group had a strong year under Mark Wilsons leadership: Tom Stoddard continued to provide outstanding leadership to the Strong financial results in 2017 with Group adjusted operating finance function and was instrumental in many initiatives that 1 1 profit growth up 2%, Operating EPS up 7% and fourth supported the Groups strategy, including: consecutive year of double digit growth in the total dividend.
All In 2017 we delivered on, or exceeded, market expectations at a other key metrics met or exceeded market commitments.
This strong financial performance lead to upgrading 1 2 guidance to the market has been upgraded: higher than midexternal targets on Operating EPS growth, cash remittances and 1 single digit Operating EPS growth, increased pay-out target of dividend pay-out ratio, at our Capital Markets Day and in our 1 2 55-60% of Operating EPS by 2020: and a cash remittance target 2017 Results.
Strong stewardship of capital - continued to strengthen our Amid significant uncertainty Aviva have further strengthened the balance sheet position, acknowledged by achieving a credit balance sheet and now have 3bn of excess capital to be ratings upgrade to double A status.
As we concluded the fix phase, our balance sheet is well Completion of our strategy to dispose of FPI, Spain, Taiwan and positioned, with a 300 million share repurchase programme and Banco Populare Italy partnership.
This signals the business repayment of 500 million of hybrid debt without refinancing moving from fix in to a growth phase.
Solid progress made in Digital as Aviva increased active We completed announcements on our programme of business registrations by 44% and launched Ask it Never providing exits, allowing stronger focus on major growth markets from 2018 quotes to UK home insurance customers with no questions onwards.
This included exits of Spain, Taiwan, Antarius, FPI and asked.
Digital intellectual property has contributed to long term, Banco Popolare.
significant partnership announcements with Tencent, Royal Bank We began our bolt-on merger and acquisitions activity with the of Canada and HSBC.
accretive acquisition of Friends First in Ireland.
Launched a solution to the unsustainable UK market practice of Accelerating change activity to improve the finance function, pricing new business below that of renewing business.
Once the reduce costs and apply zero based budgeting principles across test pilot is complete, it will reward loyal customers and increase Aviva.
Our UK Life, Health and General Insurance businesses have been brought together under a common leadership.
Execution of this change has been effective as the UK business has grown 2 adjusted operating profits well above its target range as well as growing sales in every major product line.
Employee engagement remains strong up 1% at 75%.
In 2017 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 75 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Aviva announced a ground breaking equal parental leave policy, promoting equal opportunities for all.
Bonus award: 1,945,114 Bonus award: 996,800 Bonus as a % of basic salary: 188% Bonus as a % of basic salary: 140% Bonus as a % of max opportunity: 94% Bonus as a % of max opportunity: 93% Andy Briggs Maurice Tulloch In 2017 Andy Briggs became CEO of Aviva UK Insurance combining Maurice Tulloch commenced his new role as CEO International our UK based Life, GI and Health businesses.
Key results include: Insurance in 2017, and his key deliveries included: 2 Strong financial performance in UKI with double digit adjusted Achieving double digit operating profit growth across France, 2 operating profit growth, new business trading growth across all Poland, Ireland and Turkey.
2 product segments and net cash remittances.
Strengthened market leadership in Italy and Canada, Above target underlying performance and improved employee demonstrating the strength of talent in our businesses by making engagement delivered despite the integration of our UK new internal appointments to the roles of CEO in Canada and in franchises in to a single UK Insurance business.
Progress made via True Customer Composite TCC among large Growth continued in Ireland and our acquisition of Friends First corporate customers.
Over 70% profit and 75% of new business will improve our life insurance position.
in the corporate segment is now coming from companies with Energised our Global Corporate & Specialty business, delivering a more than one line of business with Aviva.
new strategy, significant top and bottom line growth, and a Broad based growth across our major product lines, for example business rebrand.
2 times growth in long term savings net fund flows and greater Finalised our disposals in Europe, delivering a total value of 1.3 than 3 times increase in bulk purchase annuities sales.
billion, through selective exits in Spain, France and Italy.
Long term distribution agreement with HSBC put in place.
Maintained robust risk and controls environment across markets, Strong balance sheet management and progress in improving rolling out the Group operational risk control and management the control environment.
3 Bonus award: 1,022,000 Bonus award: 456,399 Bonus as a % of basic salary: 140% Bonus as a % of basic salary: 120% Bonus as a % of max opportunity: 93% Bonus as a % of max opportunity: 80% 1 This measure is derived from the Group adjusted operating profit APM.
3 The bonus award shown here relates to Maurices qualifying services as a director of Aviva from 20 June 2017 when he was appointed as an ED.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 76 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued 2015 LTIP vesting in respect of performance period 2015-2017 All references to RoE represent RoE calculated as IFRS profit after tax and non-controlling interest but excluding investment variances, economic assumption changes, pension scheme income charge over average IFRS equity excluding pension scheme net surplus deficit.
1 The RoE and TSR outcome for the 2015 LTIP are detailed in the table below.
8 2015 LTIP award performance conditions Threshold Maximum Vesting Weighting 20% vests 100% Vests Outcome % of Maximum 1 RoE Performance 50% 24.5% 30% 28.2% 36.9% Relative TSR Performance 50% Median Upper quintile and above Between rank 0% 13 and 14 1 2015 RoE performance outcome has been adjusted to exclude the positive impact of the 300m share buyback which then increases shareholders equity and further excludes the re-measurement loss on FPI and Taiwan which will be recognised in 2018 upon completion of the sale.
Quality of Earnings Assessment 2017 Remuneration Decisions The Committee discussed those items that impacted the overall results in 2017 including foreign exchange, acquisitions and dispositions, life assumption and modelling changes, prior year reserve development, and other items that are one-off in nature.
This provides the Committee with an understanding of the core profitability of the business taking these factors into account.
9 Awards granted during the year audited information Share and option awards granted to EDs during the year are set out below.
LTIP is a conditional right to receive shares based on a three-year performance period, with an additional two-year holding period.
ABP represents the portion of the 2016 bonus deferred into shares for three years.
AESOP includes partnership, matching and dividend share awards which vest after three years.
Further details are provided at tables 17 and 19.
2 Face value for the awards granted on 27 March 2017 has been calculated using the average of the middle-market closing price of an Aviva ordinary share on the three consecutive business days immediately preceding the date of grant, on 27 March 2017 530.00 pence.
The AESOP has been calculated using the average price achieved at purchase of the partnership shares throughout 2017 515.29 pence.
RoE targets for awards made in 2017 RoE targets determine the vesting of 50% of the LTIP award and are set annually within the context of the Companys three-year business plan.
Vesting depends upon performance over the three-year period against a target return.
The 2017 targets are provided below.
RoE is calculated as the IFRS profit after tax and non-controlling interest, but excluding the impact of amortisation of acquired value of in force business, investment variances, pension scheme income charge and economic assumption changes, over average IFRS equity excluding pension scheme net surplus deficit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the Company.
10 2017 LTIP RoE targets 1 1 Achievement of RoE targets over the three-year performance period Percentage of shares in award that vests based on achievement of RoE targets Less than 28.8% 0% 28.8% 10% Between 28.8% and 35.2% Pro-rata between 10% and 50% on a straight line basis 35.2% and above 50% TSR targets for awards made in 2017 Relative TSR determines the vesting of the other 50% of the LTIP award.
Performance for the 2017 grant will be assessed against the following companies: Aegon, Allianz, Assicurazioni Generali, AXA, CNP Assurances, Direct Line Group, Legal & General, MetLife, NN Group, Old Mutual, Prudential, RSA Insurance Group, Standard Life Aberdeen and Zurich Financial.
The performance period for the TSR performance condition will be the three years beginning 1 January 2017.
For the purposes of measuring the TSR performance condition, the Companys TSR and that of the comparator group will be based on the 90-day average TSR for the period immediately preceding the start and end of the performance period.
The vesting schedule is set out in the table below.
11 TSR vesting schedule for the 2017 LTIP award TSR position over the three-year performance period Percentage of shares in award that vests based on achievement of TSR targets Below Median 0% Median 10% Between median and upper quintile Pro-rata between 10% and 50% on a straight line basis Upper quintile and above 50% Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 77 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Payments to past directors audited information Russell Walls retired from the Board with effect from 8 May 2013.
Russell was appointed as a NED of Aviva Italia Holdings S. p. A on 4 December 2014 and on 30 April 2015 was appointed as Chair.
On 13 April 2015 Russell was appointed as a NED of Aviva Annuity UK Limited, Aviva Life Holdings UK Limited, Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited, Aviva Life Services UK Limited, Aviva Administration Limited, Friends Life and Pensions Limited and Friends Life Limited each of which are subsidiary companies of Aviva plc.
Russell subsequently stepped down from Aviva Life Services UK Limited and Aviva Administration Limited on 29 December 2017.
On 31 October 2017 Russell was also appointed as a NED of Aviva Insurance Limited, also a subsidiary companies of Aviva plc.
The emoluments he received in respect of these directorships for the 2017 financial year were 131,837 and 90,000.
Scott Wheway retired from the Board with effect from 31 December 2016.
Scott was appointed as a NED of Aviva Insurance Limited on 13 April 2015 and stepped down on 30 September 2017.
The emoluments he received in respect of this directorship for the 2017 financial year were 78,750.
Payments for loss of office audited information There were no payments for loss of office made during the year.
12 Total 2017 remuneration for non-executive directors audited information Table below sets out the total remuneration earned by each NED who served during 2017, for Group-related activities.
2 The prior year total has been recalculated to show the directors that continued in office during all or part of the current year and excludes remuneration of directors that left in the prior year.
3 Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson stepped down from the Board at the 2017 AGM.
4 2017 reflects Claudia and Keiths first full year on the Board.
The total amount paid in fees to NEDs in 2017 was 1,656,000, which is within the limits set in the Companys Articles of Association, as previously approved by shareholders.
Subsidiary company board memberships During the year, the following NEDs were appointed as Directors of subsidiary companies to support and further enhance the flow of information between material subsidiaries and the Group.
The additional emoluments received in respect of these roles are detailed below: Claudia Arney received an additional fee of 40,000 2016: nil in respect of her duties as a Board member of Aviva UK Digital Limited UKD.
Claudia first joined the Board of UKD as a NED on 1 January 2017 and on 14 September 2017 was appointed as Chair.
Patricia Cross received an additional fee of 52,808 2016: nil in respect of her duties as a Board member of Aviva Investors Holdings Limited AIH.
Patricia first joined the Board of AIH as a NED on 1 January 2017 and on 20 September 2017 was appointed as Senior Independent Director.
Beln Romana Garca received an additional fee of 1,068 2016: nil in respect of her duties as a Board member of Aviva Italia Holding S. p. A. Beln joined the Board on 19 December 2017.
During 2017, Michael Hawker received an additional fee of 15,000 2016: nil in respect of his duties as a Board member of Aviva Life Holdings UK Limited.
Michael stepped down from his role on 31 March 2017.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 78 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Percentage change in remuneration of Group CEO The table below sets out the increase in the basic salary, bonus and benefits of the Group CEO and that of the wider workforce.
The UK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group, as the Group CEO and the majority of EDs are based in the UK albeit with global responsibilities, and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
13 Percentage change in remuneration of Group CEO % change in basic salary 2016-2017 % change in bonus 2016-2017 % change in benefits 2016-2017 Group CEO 2.5% 5.9% 7.3% All UK-based employees 3.6% 8.6% -0.7% Note: The higher bonus outcomes seen for UK-based employees reflects the stronger performance of the major UK businesses compared to that seen in 2016.
The change in the CEOs benefits from 99,000 in 2016 to 107,000 in 2017 includes travel, overnight accommodation and meals which HMRC treats as taxable benefits and not business expenses in the ordinary course of his role.
Historical TSR performance and Group CEO remuneration outcomes Table 14 compares the TSR performance of the Company over the past nine years against the TSR of the FTSE 100 Return Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which Aviva is a member.
In addition, median TSR performance for the LTIP comparator group has been shown.
The companies which comprise the current LTIP comparator group for TSR purposes are listed in the TSR Targets section on page 77.
14 Aviva plc nine-year TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index and the median of the comparator group Aviva FTSE 100 Comparator group median 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Table 15 summarises the Group CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-out and LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
15 Historical Group CEO remuneration outcomes Group CEO 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 Annual bonus payout as a % Mark Wilson 75% 86.7% 91% 91% 94% of maximum opportunity 2 Andrew Moss 74.2% 72.3% 81.7% LTIP vesting as a % of Mark Wilson 53% 41.3% 36.9% maximum opportunity Andrew Moss 50.0% 72.3% 81.7% Group CEO single figure of Mark Wilson 2,615 2,600 5,438 4,523 4,334 remuneration 000 Andrew Moss 2,591 2,748 3,477 554 1 Mark joined the Board as an ED with effect from 1 December 2012, and became Group CEO on 1 January 2013.
He received no emoluments in respect of 2012.
2 Andrew resigned from the Board with effect from 8 May 2012 and left the Company on 31 May 2012.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 79 TSR rebased to 100 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Relative importance of spend on pay Table 16 outlines Group adjusted operating profit after integration and restructuring costs, dividends paid to shareholders and buybacks compared to overall spend on pay in total and per capita.
This measure of profit has been chosen as it is used for decision making and the internal performance management of the Groups operating segments.
16 Relative importance of spend on pay Year end Year end Year end 31 December 31 December 31 December % 2015 2016 2017 change between m m m 2016 & 2017 1,2 Group adjusted operating profit 2,309 2,798 2,927 5% 3 Dividends paid 635 871 983 13% 4 Share buybacks 300 5 Total staff costs 1,628 1,764 1,942 10% 1 Group adjusted operating profit is an Alternative Performance Measure APM which is used by the Group to supplement the required disclosures under IFRS.
Please refer to note B in the Accounting Policies section and to the Other Information section within the Annual report and accounts for further information 2 After integration and restructuring costs.
3 The total cost of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders.
4 A share buy-back of ordinary shares for an aggregate purchase price of 300 million was undertaken during the year, as described in more detail in note 14.
There were no share buy-backs in 2015 or 2016.
5 Total staff costs from continuing operations includes wages and salaries, social security costs, post-retirement obligations, profit sharing and incentive plans, equity compensation plans and termination benefits.
The average number of employees in continuing operations was 30,090 2017 and 29,653 2016.
External board appointments Tom Stoddard was a Trustee of Trout Unlimited a non-profit conservation organisation but resigned from this position 30 June 2017.
Andy Briggs is the Chair of the Association of British Insurers, on the Board of Trustees of the NSPCC and the Governments Business Champion for Older Workers.
Maurice Tulloch is a Director of Pool Reinsurance Company Limited.
Neither Tom nor Andy received any fees or other compensation for these appointments.
Maurice received 41,500 in respect of his directorship during the year.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests EDs shareholding requirements The Company requires the Group CEO to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 300% of basic salary and each ED to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 150% of basic salary.
The EDs are required to retain 50% of the net shares released from ABP and LTIP awards until the shareholding requirement is met.
The shareholding requirement needs to be built up over a five-year period.
Unvested share awards, including shares held in connection with bonus deferrals, are not taken into account in applying this test.
17 Executive directors shareholding requirement audited information 4 Shares held Options held Unvested and Unvested and Shareholding subject to Unvested and Current 5 Vested but Requirement performance subject to continued subject to continued requirement Shareholding 1 2 3 Executive Directors Owned Outright conditions employment employment not exercised % of salary % of salary met 6 Mark Wilson 607,429 1,698,819 626,841 6,179 300 297 No Tom Stoddard 199,964 877,578 300,907 150 142 No Andy Briggs 241,498 899,518 209,040 5,128 150 168 Yes 7 Maurice Tulloch 306,710 808,134 192,147 150 220 Yes 1 Directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company.
This information includes holdings of any connected persons.
For Andy Briggs it also includes partnership shares purchased under the AESOP, under which participants can currently contribute up to 150 every month.
Shares are purchased on a monthly basis, and have to be held in the AESOP trust for three years.
These vest after three years providing the ED does not leave and the related partnership shares are not withdrawn from the AESOP trust.
2 Awards granted under the Aviva LTIP which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
3 Awards arising through the ABP.
Under this plan, some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of conditional shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but the shares can be forfeited if the ED leaves service before the end of the period.
4 Savings-related options without performance conditions over shares granted under the SAYE plan.
5 Based on the closing middle-market price of an ordinary share of the Company on 29 December 2017 of 506.5 pence.
The closing middle-market price of an ordinary share of the Company during the year ranged from 470.6 pence to 544 pence.
6 Mark will meet his shareholding requirement after the vesting of the 2015 ABP and LTIP awards.
7 Maurices basic salary and benefits are set in Canadian dollars and have been converted to sterling using an average exchange rate for 2017.
There were no changes to the EDs interests in Aviva shares during the period 1 January 2018 to 6 March 2018, with the exception of Andy Briggs continued participation in the AESOP.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 80 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued 1 18 Non-executive directors shareholdings audited information 1 January 31 December 1 2017 2017 Sir Adrian Montague 33,082 42,385 Claudia Arney 14,000 14,000 Glyn Barker 11,700 22,700 Patricia Cross 7,000 12,383 Beln Romana Garca 790 Michael Hawker 20,000 20,000 Michael Mire 50,000 50,000 Keith Williams 10,000 2 Former non-executive directors Bob Stein 21,000 21,000 Sir Malcolm Williamson 41.421 41,421 1 This information includes holdings of any connected persons.
2 Bob Stein and Sir Malcolm Williamson stepped down from the Board at the 2017 AGM.
There were no changes to the NEDs interests in Aviva shares during the period 1 January 2018 to 6 March 2018.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 81 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Share awards and share options Details of the EDs who were in office for any part of the 2017 financial year and hold or held outstanding share awards or options over ordinary shares of the Company pursuant to the Companys share based incentive plans are set out in table 19.
Details of awards and options granted to EDs under these plans are also included in tables 5, 9 and 17 and SAYE options are included in table 19.
More information around HMRC tax-advantaged plans can also be found in note 31.
The net value has been calculated by reference to the closing middle-market price of an ordinary share of the Company at the date of grant.
2 The actual price used to calculate the ABP and LTIP awards is based on a three-day average closing middle-market price of an ordinary share of the Company, prior to grant date.
The actual price used to calculate the CFO Award is based on a three-day average closing middle-market price of an ordinary share of the Company, prior to employment start date, which was 509 pence.
3 For the 2014 LTIP grant, the TSR comparator group consisted of the following companies: Aegon, Allianz, Assicurazioni Generali, Axa, CNP Assurances, Direct Line Group, FLG, Legal & General, Met Life, Old Mutual, Prudential, RSA Insurance Group, Standard Life and Zurich Financial.
For the 2015, 2016 and 2017 LTIP grant, the TSR comparator group consisted of the following companies: Aegon, Allianz, Assicurazioni Generali, Axa, CNP Assurances, Direct Line Group, Legal & General, MetLife, NN Group, Old Mutual, Prudential, RSA Insurance Group, Standard Life and Zurich Financial.
4 The performance periods for these awards begin at the commencement of the financial year in which the award is granted and run for a three-year period.
5 Any unexercised options will lapse at the end of the exercise period.
6 Options are not subject to performance conditions.
The option price was fixed by reference to a three day average closing middle-market price of an ordinary share of the Company, prior to invitation date, with a discount of 20% as permitted under the SAYE plan.
Options granted under the SAYE are normally exercisable during the six-month period following the end of the relevant 3 or 5 year savings contract.
7 The shares comprised in these vested awards include shares issued in lieu of dividends accrued during the deferral period.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 82 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued Dilution Awards granted under Aviva employee share plans are generally met by issuing new shares as agreed by the Board.
Shares are still held in employee trusts, details of which are set out in note 32.
The Company monitors the number of shares issued under the Aviva employee share plans and their impact on dilution limits.
The Companys usage of shares compared to the relevant dilution limits set by the Investment Association in respect of all share plans 10% in any rolling ten-year period and executive share plans 5% in any rolling ten-year period was 1.65% and 2.73% respectively on 31 December 2017.
Governance Regulatory Remuneration Code Aviva Investors and two small firms as defined by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA within the UK Insurance business are subject to the Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV and the FCA Remuneration Code SYSC 19A.
Additionally, there are two Aviva Investors firms in the UK, Friends Life Funds Limited and Aviva Investors UK Funds Limited, subject to the Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive AIFMD and the Undertakings for Collective Investments in transferrable securities UCITS directive.
Remuneration Code requirements include an annual disclosure.
For AIFMD and UCITs the disclosure is part of the Financial Statements and or Annual accounts of the Alternative Investment Funds or UCITs.
For CRD IV requirements the Aviva Investors disclosure can be found in Section 5 of the Pillar 3 Disclosure which can be found at www.
com pillar3 and a link to the disclosure for the UK Insurance firms can be found at www.
Solvency II remuneration Remuneration Requirements PRA PS22 16 & SS10 16 apply to the Aviva Group.
Our remuneration structures have been designed in a way so that they are compliant with these requirements for all senior managers across the Group, not just those identified as being specifically covered by the requirements of the regulation.
Such employees at Aviva are termed Covered Employees.
We are required to complete a Remuneration Policy Statement, which outlines how we have complied with each of the requirements.
This document was approved by the Group Remuneration Committee and submitted to the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA.
The Solvency II reporting requirements for the year ended 31 December 2017 necessitate firms to produce the Solvency and Financial Condition Report SFCR which contains remuneration information and is publicly available.
Avivas reward principles and arrangements are designed to incentivise and reward employees for achieving stated business goals in a manner that is consistent with the Companys approach to sound and effective risk management.
Statement of voting at AGM The result of the shareholder vote at the Companys 2017 AGM in respect of the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report DRR is set out in table 20.
20 Result of the vote at the 2017 AGM Percentage of votes cast Number of votes cast For Against For Against Votes withheld 1 Directors Remuneration Policy 97.46% 2.54% 2,379,508,415 61,947,024 82,821,178 Directors Remuneration Report 97.70% 2.30% 2,783,050,269 65,392,949 2,480,449 1 Voting on Remuneration Policy at 2015 AGM.
Following the 2017 AGM, the Committee Chair continued dialogue with major institutional shareholders.
Approach to NED fees for 2018 NED fees are reviewed annually.
No changes were made to the current fee levels, as set out in the table below: 21 Non-executive directors fees Role Fee from 1 April 2018 Fee from 1 April 2017 1 Chairman of the Company 550,000 550,000 Board membership fee 70,000 70,000 Additional fees are paid as follows: Senior Independent Director 35,000 35,000 Committee Chair inclusive of committee membership fee : Audit 45,000 45,000 Governance 35,000 35,000 Remuneration 35,000 35,000 Risk 45,000 45,000 Committee membership: Audit 15,000 15,000 Governance 12,500 12,500 Nomination 7,500 7,500 Remuneration 12,500 12,500 Risk 15,000 15,000 1 Inclusive of Board membership fee and any committee membership fees.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 83 Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Continued 22 Implementation of Policy in 2018 The implementation of the Policy will be consistent with that outlined in table 1.
Key Element Phasing 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Implementation in 2018 Salary Group CEO 1,065,674 per annum.
One strategic Digital First metric, focusing on two elements: growth in customers with Multiple Product Holding MPH and in the number of MyAviva active customers.
For the financial element, a quality of earnings assessment will be undertaken by the Committee to provide assurance that bonus payouts appropriately reflect the shareholder experience.
Performance against a number of other non-financial measures will be considered when determining bonus payouts employee engagement, customer and risk.
Personal performance during the year will be taken into account.
Performance measures and weightings 1 15% Cash Remittance 30% Operating EPS 2 30% progress on strategy Digital First 25% Operating Capital Generation LTIP Group CEO 300% of salary.
CFO, CEO UKI and CEO International 225% of salary.
LTIP awards will only be granted subject to shareholder approval of the Policy at the 2018 AGM.
Subject to performance against two performance measures, which have been chosen to reflect shareholders long-term interests, as detailed below.
Shares are typically subject to a two-year holding period after vesting.
1 Operating EPS is defined in the other information section and is subject to 2 two gateway hurdles Operating RoE and SII Shareholder Cover Ratio.
3 TSR Measured against a comparator group.
1 50% Operating EPS target 50% TSR target 1 Three-year Operating EPS growth Vesting level TSR Ranking Vesting level Less than 4.0% p. a.
10-50% straight line Between median and Pro rata between 10% and 50% and 10.0% p. a. upper quintile on a straight line basis 10.0% p. a and above 50% Upper quintile and above 50% 1 This measure is derived from the Group adjusted operating profit APM.
2 This is an APM which provides useful information to enhance the understanding of financial performance.
3 2018 LTIP Comparator Group: Aegon, Allianz, Assicurazioni Generali, Axa, CNP Assurances, Direct Line Group, Legal & General, Lloyds Banking Group, Old Mutual, Phoenix, Prudential, RSA, Standard Life Aberdeen, Zurich Insurance.
1 LTIP vesting gateway hurdle conditions for the element linked to Operating EPS 1 2 Any vesting of the Operating EPS element of the LTIP is subject to two gateway hurdles Operating RoE and SII Shareholder Cover Ratio.
2 For 2018, the Operating RoE hurdle is 12% p. a. and the SII Shareholder Cover Ratio is to meet or exceed the minimum of the stated working range currently 150% to 180%.
Approval by the Board This Directors Remuneration Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 7 March 2018.
Patricia Cross Chair, Remuneration Committee Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 84
