Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERA TION POLICY 1.
Introduction The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders on 5 May 2017, and was effective from that date.
No changes to the Policy are proposed this year.
The Policy covers how decisions on Directors remuneration will be made at RSA, and the remuneration philosophy and strategy which underpin these decisions.
For ease of reference, elements of the Policy referenced in Committee activity during 2017 are re-presented on the following pages 86 to 92, including the policy tables and information on Directors contractual terms.
The full Policy Report is contained in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts pages 80 to 87, which is available at www.
RSAs remuneration principles The remuneration philosophy and strategy are directly informed by the business strategy.
The remuneration principles that the Group Remuneration Committee the Committee follows are: Remuneration is aligned to the long-term term interests of the Company, its business strategy and performance: The remuneration framework is designed to promote sound and effective risk management in line with the companys risk profile: Each component of the total remuneration package is simple and transparent, so as to be effective and understood by executives, shareholders and regulators: Pay is linked to performance, with variable remuneration fully contingent on the achievement of stretching shortand long-term objectives which directly support the achievement of strategic priorities and are aligned to shareholders interests: Executive Directors and other executives are required to hold a significant number of shares in the Company: they are encouraged to act in shareholders best interests by having a personal investment in RSA: Competitive remuneration packages are offered in order to attract, retain and reward the levels of high calibre talent which are essential to RSAs success in todays competitive global insurance market: and The remuneration framework is reviewed regularly to ensure that it continues to appropriately reward executives, while protecting shareholders interests and complying with principles of good risk management and reward governance and avoiding conflicts of interest.
86 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 3.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The following table sets out the components of the Executive Directors remuneration package and how they operate.
Purpose and Strategic Link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually considering factors Other than exceptional Performance conditions do fixed including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, circumstances such as not apply, but business and remuneration levels of pay for other RSA employees, inflation, a role change, salary individual performance may be affordability, job scale and content, individuals increases will not exceed considered when conducting This element experience and expertise.
the level of increases the review process.
is designed applied to other RSA to attract Salaries are benchmarked referencing peer group employees.
and retain companies of comparable size and complexity.
high calibre There is no automatic right for any Director to receive executives, a salary increase.
essential for Only annual base salary is pensionable.
An existing Executive Directors salary may be increased outside of the normal review cycle for material role changes.
Benefits fixed Benefits typically cover the areas of: health and Benefits are valued None.
remuneration well-being, leave of absence, car and business and determined with travel, sickness benefit, insurances, professional reference to the This element subscriptions, external advice and employee discounts benchmarking peer forms part on certain insurance products.
Home to work travel groups and other of a market may be covered where appropriate.
surveys reviewed by the competitive Committee.
package and Some benefits are delivered as taxable cash-in-lieu supports the allowances.
Tax changes are not compensated.
remuneration, however Assistance would be available under RSAs relocation the cost to provide policy or global mobility policy should this be required.
them can vary from Expenses can be claimed according to RSAs business year to year in line with and travel policies, including tax thereon where such market conditions, which expenses do not qualify for tax relief.
therefore determine the Executive Directors in participating countries can maximum value.
acquire shares in RSAs all-employee share plans Sharesave and Sharebuild, and those in the UK can participate in RSAs flexible benefits programme.
Benefits are determined with reference to market practice within the same peer group companies referred to in respect of salaries.
The Committee can also source information from bespoke benefit surveys to aid decision-making.
The Committee can amend any benefit or introduce new ones to ensure the remuneration package remains market competitive or to respond to regulatory, legal or best practice changes.
Pension fixed Pension benefits take the form of employer No Executive Director will None.
remuneration contributions to a pension plan, or a full partial receive a pension benefit cash allowance in lieu.
The RSA UK defined benefit in excess of 30% of salary.
This element pension schemes are closed to all new entrants forms part and future accrual.
of a market competitive Pension cash allowances are paid monthly and are package subject to statutory deductions.
and enables The Committee can adjust contribution or allowance executives levels to ensure these remain appropriate and market to save for aligned.
It can also agree changes to the terms of the retirement.
Directors pension plan s, as appropriate.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and Strategic Link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Bonus Bonus awards are calculated against stretching annual The normal maximum Performance measures and Plan variable financial and non-financial targets, as well as the bonus opportunity weightings are set each year remuneration performance of the individual executive.
considering the Companys strategy and shareholder This element 50% of the bonus is deferred into a share award for a An additional bonus interests, and will vary incentivises the period of three years, and 50% is awarded in cash.
opportunity of up to a based on each Directors achievement further 40% of salary Vested shares must be retained until the relevant area of responsibility where of short-term may be available, shareholding level is reached, excluding any sold appropriate.
financial and at the Committees to satisfy statutory deductions.
The applicable non-financial discretion, to recognise Measures typically cover shareholding levels are detailed on page 92. goals, in line highly exceptional profit, underwriting Awards are subject to the Malus and Clawback Policy, with RSAs risk circumstances.
Full performance, risk which is reviewed annually, and is noted on page 78. profile.
disclosure will be given management, expenses, Dividend equivalents accrue on the deferred shares, if an increased bonus capital and balance sheet Deferral into and are awarded at the end of the deferral period.
strength, customer and shares enhances business sustainability, and shareholder The Committee can exercise discretion to change the Actual bonus awards are objectives personal to the alignment.
bonus measures, how they are weighted, calculated linked to achievement executive.
It can adjust bonus outcomes provided as follows: this is appropriate and in shareholders interests, A majority weighting is Below threshold including adjustment downwards for current or given to financial metrics.
no bonus future risk exposure, and make such amendments Measures can be assessed Threshold 10% of as are necessary to respond to regulatory, legal or on a Scorecard basis.
Shareholders will be notified Performance is measured Target 50% of if this has been carried out by disclosure in the relevant over one financial year.
maximum opportunity Directors Remuneration Report.
Maximum 100% of Targets are set with maximum opportunity reference to the Groups operational plan.
The performance measures and targets used to inform the 2017 bonus awards are on pages 73 to 75.
Long-term Conditional long-term incentive awards are granted The normal maximum Performance conditions Incentive Plan annually in the form of Performance Shares, and LTIP opportunity is 230% are reviewed for each new LTIP variable may vest wholly or partially subject to company of salary.
cycle and set in line with remuneration performance conditions.
the Companys operational For recruitment purposes, plan, long-term strategy This element A two-year retention period applies to vested or in highly exceptional and considering shareholder supports Performance Shares, excluding any sold to satisfy circumstances, such interests.
This applies while the Director as for retention, the term strategy, remains in employment.
Committee may Measures are typically linked performance agree to a conditional to value creation through Vested shares must be retained until the relevant and priority performance-related performance of the Groups shareholding level is reached, excluding any sold to to create award being made up share price, profit, capital satisfy statutory deductions, as detailed on page 92. shareholder to an additional 170% and balance sheet strength Awards are subject to the Malus and Clawback Policy, value through of salary.
This would and underlying performance.
which is reviewed annually, and is noted on page 78. sustained be considered a oneThe LTIP will include at earnings and Dividend equivalents accrue during the performance off award.
Where an least two measures.
share price period and are added to the shares that vest.
exceptional award is A majority weighting is given growth.
made, full disclosure will The Committee can act within the parameters of to financial metrics.
Metrics be given on the rationale.
The sharethe Plans rules as approved by shareholders and can be assessed through based nature its performance conditions, enabling the LTIP to be Award vesting is linked to a Scorecard.
of the plan appropriately administered under both normal and achievement against the The performance period will 1 enhances performance conditions exceptional circumstances.
The Committee can make normally be at least three shareholder as follows: such amendments as may be necessary to respond years for all measures, alignment.
to legal, accounting or regulatory changes.
Awards Below threshold 0% with no re-testing.
can be reduced or otherwise amended, provided the vesting Shareholders will be action is fair and justifiable, for example, to guard Threshold 25% consulted if material against a windfall award or the converse generated vesting changes to the measures are by an accounting treatment.
Vesting can be adjusted Target 62.5% vesting proposed by the Committee.
downwards for current or future risk exposure.
Maximum 100% The measures and targets vesting for the 2018-20 cycle are on pages 83 to 84.
The current LTIP, referred to as the Performance Share Plan 2014 PSP, was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
It is also used as a vehicle for granting deferred bonus shares, and restricted shares where these are awarded as part of an Executive Director buy-out as noted on page 89.
The overall remuneration principles in this Policy apply across the Group.
Employee remuneration packages are set with reference to the relevant competitive markets in which the Group operates, and remuneration levels therefore reflect differences in location and job role.
All permanent UK-based employees are eligible to receive a bonus award, but deferral is only operated for senior leaders and where required by Solvency II.
The LTIP policy provisions are the same for all other participants who receive performance-based awards, with exception to the two-year post-vesting retention period which only covers Executive Directors.
LTIP award opportunities vary for individuals below the Board.
Members of the Executive Team and selected senior leaders across the Group are also required to hold shares in RSA.
88 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 4.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee ensures a consistent and transparent approach is taken when appointing Executive Directors to the Board, as shown in the following table.
When a new Executive Director is recruited, the Committee will provide details of how the Policy has been implemented in respect of their appointment terms in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration component Notes on approach Base salary Set using the same approach as for existing Directors salary reviews.
The Committee can exercise discretion on the timing and level of salary reviews for newly appointed Directors reflecting the individuals development and performance in the role.
Benefits, pension Same as those offered to current Executive Directors, but the Committee may exercise judgement to flex the and contractual package to accommodate any specific terms bespoke to the individual, e. g. related to health, annual leave, terms pension or insurance benefits.
Where the Director is an internal appointee to the Board, or appointed following a corporate transaction, he she may be permitted to retain any legacy benefits or terms at the Committees discretion, or a buy-out may be made depending on the benefit type and circumstance.
Continuity of service with the Group will be maintained.
Incentive awards Under normal circumstances, a new Executive Director will be eligible for incentive awards in line with the usual policy as detailed on page 88.
However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher bonus opportunity of up to 200% of salary may be agreed and a performance-related LTIP award may be approved by the Committee in the Directors first year of service up to the limit of 400% of salary.
If the director is entered into an RSA LTIP and made an award of Performance Shares, these will be subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as applies to other plan participants.
Buy-outs Where the Director is an external appointment, the Committee may agree to a compensatory package reflecting the value and terms of incentives or benefits forfeited upon resignation.
This will only be permitted on receipt of reasonable evidence of loss.
Typically, the form of award that is being forfeited e. g. cash or shares will be replaced by the same form of award at RSA.
Performance-linked awards will normally only be compensated with Restricted Shares where a performance condition has been achieved or is nearing testing and there is a reasonable expectation of the vesting level.
Cash bonuses may be bought out with Restricted Shares in order to give the Director an early stake in RSA.
The Committee may agree to reduce the value of the compensatory award below the anticipated or actual loss value if the compensation is paid at an advanced date i. e. early settlement.
Any compensatory award using cash or restricted shares will always carry a service condition and an appropriate repayment schedule to protect shareholders interests.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued 5.
Service contracts and policy for payments on loss of office Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and conditions.
Contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Terms are designed to ensure fair treatment for departing executives while avoiding reward for failure.
Key terms Notes on approach Notice period No Director will be appointed on a notice period exceeding 12 months.
The current Executive Directors employment can be terminated by the Company or the individual, by the serving of 12 months notice.
In the case of summary dismissal, no notice will be served by the Company and no compensation will be paid in lieu of it.
Notice periods are approved by the Committee, and at its discretion, can be reduced in the event an Executive Director resigns and wishes to leave prior to the end of his or her contractual notice period.
The Company can require accrued annual leave related to the year of termination to be used during a notice period or garden leave, although payment of untaken days can alternatively be made in lieu.
Garden leave The Company has the contractual right to place the Executive Directors on garden leave for part, or all, of their notice period.
Salary, benefits and pension contributions continue during garden leave, but this time will not count towards the calculation of any Annual Bonus award that may subsequently be due.
Payment in lieu of A Director may be paid in lieu of an unexpired portion of their notice period, covering base salary, pension notice PILON and benefits, regardless of which party has served notice.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, PILON would be made on a phased basis subject to mitigation, and would be reduced or ceased if the Director starts to receive payment or remuneration from alternative employment.
Termination There are no pre-determined special provisions for Directors with regard to compensation for loss payment of office.
If a loss of office were to occur giving rise to a redundancy payment under prevailing employment legislation, the payment will be calculated taking account of the Directors length of service with the Group and his her annual gross basic salary as at their employment termination date.
In the normal course of events, reasonable professional fees may be paid in relation to a Directors employment termination.
No payment or compensation for loss of office made to any departing Director will be disclosed if it is less than 10,000 gross.
Executive Directors do not have terms which provide additional rights or payments to them in the event of a change of control, reconstruction or amalgamation of the Company.
Restrictive Restrictive covenants are in place to help protect RSAs interests should the individual leave the Company covenants for any reason.
External Executive Directors may hold one external non-executive position of a FTSE 100 company provided this appointments does not give rise to any conflict of interest, with the approval of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
If there is any remuneration arising from this role, the individual can retain it.
90 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and Corporate Governance Report The Committees approach to incentive treatment for Executive Director leavers is set out in the following table.
Based on the leaving circumstances and having regard of shareholders interests, the Committee can exercise discretion to reduce or lapse awards or enable a proportion of awards to be received but only in highly exceptional circumstances and where appropriate.
Shareholders will be informed if discretion is applied, and details will be provided wherever possible.
Leaving circumstances Approach to Annual Bonus Approach to Deferred Bonus Shares Approach to unvested LTIPs Resignation or Not eligible if left or under Forfeited if dismissed for cause.
dismissal for cause notice at the date of payment.
Normally vest in line with the normal timetable if resignation.
Good leavers Eligible for the proportion of the Normally vest in line with the Performance is tested in line with the bonus year served.
At the Committees Performance is tested in line In cases of death in service and, In cases of death in service and, discretion, with the normal performance with Committee discretion, with Committee discretion, medical and normally timetable.
medical severance, awards severance, performance conditions including such can vest sooner than the can be tested early and awards vest In cases of death in service circumstances as scheduled date.
sooner than the scheduled date.
and, with Committee planned retirement, discretion, medical severance, Awards vest subject to performance death, disability performance can be tested and and time pro-rating.
medical severance, awards made sooner than the transfers outside scheduled date.
of the Group and 1 redundancy The Committee has the discretion to make the final bonus award in cash and so waive deferral, subject to any regulatory requirements.
Change of control Normally good leaver treatment Awards can vest sooner than Performance conditions are tested applies as above.
early and awards can vest sooner than the scheduled date.
Where this is the case, The Committee can determine performance can be tested and whether a pro-ration for time is Vesting level determined with regard awards made sooner than the applied to these awards.
to performance and time served.
The Committee will make reasonable judgement on determining whether a Director qualifies for good leaver status by reason of retirement, by understanding the individuals intentions post employment termination and taking account of the context of his her departure from the Group.
Legacy incentive plans The Policy provides for any outstanding awards granted under legacy incentive plans to continue in place, although the current Executive Directors do not hold any such awards.
Existing incentive awards granted under the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in 2014 will continue in place.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued 7.
Required shareholding RSA believes it is in shareholders interests for its executives to hold shares in the Company and build a stake in the business.
They are expected to retain vested shares arising from the Companys share plans to build and maintain a minimum shareholding level.
Shareholding provisions Executive Directors must build up a shareholding in RSA according to specified levels, expressed as a salary multiple.
The shareholding levels to be reached are: Group Chief Executive: 300% of salary Other Executive Directors: 200% of salary Executives have a targeted five years in which to build up their holding, commencing from the first date an unconditional share award is made to them as a Director.
No shares are to be sold until the holding level is reached, except where required to cover statutory deductions.
The shares which count towards the holding level are those held either in the executives own right or that of immediate family members and any awarded by RSA which cease to be bound by any performance or service conditions.
Vested Performance Shares count towards the holding level during the two-year retention period.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow shares to be sold in exceptional business or personal circumstances e. g. ill-health, divorce, financial hardship.
The shareholding levels were determined with reference to the practice across the Companys benchmark peer groups.
The Executive Directors shareholding levels as at 31 December 2017 are noted on page 79.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors The following table outlines the components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration: Purpose and Strategic Link Operation and maximum level of remuneration Fees Non-Executive Directors aside from the Chairman receive a base fee, further fees are then paid This element ensures to reflect membership of a committee, and for chairing a committee.
A separate fee is paid to the competitive remuneration Senior Independent Director.
is paid to attract high The Chairman receives a fee for his role and this is set by the Committee.
calibre non-executives Director Fees will not exceed the limit stated in the Companys Articles of Association, as approved and recognise their time by shareholders.
Fees are paid in cash, subject to any required statutory deductions.
Fees are reviewed annually but an annual increase may not always be applied.
When assessing fee levels, account is taken of the required time commitment and the degree of expertise necessary to fulfil the particular role such as chairing a committee, The fees are benchmarked using the same peer groups as for the Executive Directors remuneration, and will have regard to the market median.
The Company has the discretion to introduce new fees or change the Non-Executive Directors terms.
Details of the Chairmans fee and the Non-Executive Directors fees earned for 2017 are noted on page 73.
Other key terms of office Non-Executive Directors may claim expenses in accordance with RSAs business and travel policies, Reflects current good including tax thereon where such expenses do not qualify for tax relief.
They receive no other benefits, but they can have RSA insurance products at a discount.
As the Non-Executive Directors are not employed by the Company, they are not eligible to receive a bonus award or participate in any of RSAs share plans.
Non-Executive Directors may hold shares in RSA but this is a personal matter and is not mandatory.
Non-Executive Directors are not employed by RSA, but they are engaged on a contract for services basis.
They are issued with an appointment letter for an initial three-year term, which can be extended with the Boards agreement.
The term of office can end prior to its expiry with either the individual or the Company serving one months notice, or three months in respect of the Chairman.
No notice will be served by the Company in the event of gross misconduct.
Appointment letters are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to disclose any conflicts of interest prior to, and during, the course of their tenure.
They will not participate in making a decision if any conflict is considered to impact their independence or limit their ability to discharge their duties to shareholders.
Since Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman receive only fees and expenses, no individual can have a loss of office payment, although payment in lieu of notice can be made.
92 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017
