Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 78 Directors Remuneration Report This is my first Directors Remuneration Report since being appointed Chair in November 2017.
I would like to thank my predecessor Judy Sprieser for her contribution and leadership of the Committee and for the Central to our remuneration philosophy are support she has given me since I became Chair.
the principles of pay for performance, On the following pages, I have set out our Annual Report on Shareholder alignment and simplicity.
Remuneration, which explains how we have implemented the Remuneration Policy previously approved by Shareholders, as well as additional actions taken.
This Report will be subject to a Shareholder vote at our AGM on 3 May 2018.
Since becoming Chair, I have met with a number of our largest Contents of Directors Remuneration Report Shareholders to discuss RBs remuneration philosophy and the changes 78 Letter from the Chair we have made during 2017.
I would like to thank the Shareholders for 81 Remuneration Committee governance thetime taken and for their feedback, which provides valuable input for 82 Remuneration Policy the 2019 Policy review, which will be the main focus for the Committee 83 Implementation of commitments made for 2017 in2018.
84 2017 performance and remuneration outcomes Context for executive remuneration at RB 89 Implementation of Policy for 2018 RB strives for leading global performance.
Our management team is 90 Other required disclosures multinational and we compete for talent against a peer group of global companies.
Central to our remuneration philosophy are the principles of pay for performance, Shareholder alignment and simplicity.
Combined with RBs values and business model, they define how decisions are made, how people act and how we assess and reward them.
The Committee believes that RBs approach to remuneration, summarised on page 82, plays an important part in supporting our performance culture, reflects the global nature of our business and delivers significant benefits to Shareholders.
To reinforce this philosophy, the majority of the Executive Directors remuneration packages are made up of variable at-risk pay, linked to stretching financial targets that align with our strategy and Shareholder value creation, and are largely delivered in RB shares.
In addition we have market leading shareholding requirements for executives.
This approach is cascaded throughout our senior management.
The Committee is aware of the sensitivity around executive pay and has undertaken a very thorough review of the Companys absolute and relative performance in the round, in order to reach its decisions on the 2017 remuneration outcomes.
Mary Harris Further information regarding the composition, role and work of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Committee during 2017 can be found on page 81. Business backdrop 2017 has been a transformational, albeit challenging year for RB.
There has been significant strategic progress including the acquisition of MJN, the successful disposal of the RB Food business and the significant planned reorganisation of the business into two focused business units, Health and Hygiene Home.
However, 2017 has also seen a slowdown in overall market growth, significant pricing pressure and the cyber attack in mid-2017.
Performance was also impacted by the loss of business in South Korea and the decline in sales of foot-care devices.
Over the three-year period of the 2015 LTIP, RB has created 16 billion of Shareholder value, delivering a Shareholder return of 42%.
This is in the top quartile of the peer group, double the peer group average details of which are on page 81 and 31% above the FTSE100.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Base salary The Committee considered it appropriate to exercise its discretion to reduce the vesting outcome for the 2015 LTIP by 50% for the CEO and The CEOs 2017 salary was 945,209.
The Committee has decided that there will be no increase for 2018.
This decision is based on the Committees evaluation of performance in the round and alignment of pay outcomes with the The Committee reviewed the fixed salary of the CFO, Adrian Hennah, to Shareholder experience.
reflect the increased scope and responsibilities of his role, which resulted from the planned re-organisation of RB into two business units, described 2017 single figure earlier in this report.
His role now includes Information Systems, with a The impact of this is to reduce the 2017 single figure for the CEO from newly recruited CIO reporting directly to him.
The Committee decided 23.7m to 12.5m and to reduce that for the CFO from 5.2m to 3m.
that his salary be increased to 660,000 an 8% increase with no change This compares to 2016 single figures of 15.3m and 6.8m, respectively.
CEO The average salary increase for our UK employee base was 3%.
12.5m Annual Bonus in respect of 2017 performance CFO As described earlier, 2017 has been a transformational, albeit challenging 3.0m year for RB.
There has been significant strategic progress but the 2017 outcome saw flat like-for-like Net Revenue growth and Net Income 0.0 2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 growth that was below the stretching threshold targets set, excluding the million Fixed remuneration Value of LTIP at award MJN contribution.
This has resulted in zero bonus payment for 2017.
Share price increase of LTIP award Vesting of the 2015-2017 LTIP and decision to reduce payout All outstanding LTIP awards are subject to an earnings per share EPS Reduction in future LTIP awards growth performance measure over the three-year performance period of The Remuneration Committee keeps the LTIP awards made to Executive the awards.
In 2016, the EPS growth targets were set at 6% per annum Directors under regular review.
for threshold performance and 10% per annum for maximum vesting.
At threshold this represents 2x peer average, with maximum vesting As previously committed to Shareholders, for 2018 the Committee made requiring more than 3x our peer average performance.
a one-third reduction in the number of shares and options awarded to the CEO for the performance period 2018-2020.
This follows the The Remuneration Committee made previous commitments to reduction last year, such that the 2018 LTIP award is less than half that Shareholders to exclude the MJN acquisition and related transactions for ofthe 2016 LTIP, in respect of the 20162018 performance period.
measuring performance in order to ensure that the LTIP targets remain as stretching as prior to any major acquisition disposal.
This is to ensure that For the CFO the LTIP award for the 2018-2020 period is unchanged from managements and Shareholders interests remain fully aligned.
Management should not be rewarded due to an increase in EPS deriving simply from a material gearing of the Balance Sheet.
The charts on page 83 set out the potential impact on the future single figure for the CEO as a result of these reductions in LTIP awards.
The total effect of the acquisition and the 3bn profit from the sale of RB Food, as well as the gain in respect of US tax reform have been excluded The Committee will continue to assess overall performance going forward from performance for determining remuneration outcomes.
to ensure that the remuneration outcomes are justified.
Further, the Committee reviewed the results of MJN between completion Share ownership requirements and year-end to ensure they were not materially below the acquisition RBs share ownership requirements remain unchanged as a fixed number plan.
We are satisfied that this is not the case.
The return on capital of of shares, and are equivalent to more than 4,000% of salary for the CEO the MJN acquisition is also on track.
Earnings per share over the three-year period from 2015 to 2017, These are the most demanding in the market: the highest share measured on an adjusted, diluted basis, grew by 44%, equivalent to ownership requirement in our peer group is 800% and the highest in the compound average annual growth of 13% per annum.
With the direct FTSE 100 is 700% of salary.
Amongst the FTSE 30 the median is 400% of and indirect effects of the MJN acquisition being totally removed, this salary, with an upper quartile of 500%.
reduces to 11.5% per annum but still exceeds maximum vesting by 1.5% per annum.
This EPS growth is above the upper quartile of our peer The chart below sets out the current shareholding of the Executive group over the last three years and is more than 3x the peer average.
This Directors compared to requirements.
EPS growth performance results in vesting of 100% being achieved when Shareholding of Executive Directors vs requirement measured against the vesting schedule approved by Shareholders.
CEO EPS growth for the purposes of the LTIP is based on actual exchange rates which has been our consistent practice, as this is aligned to the Shareholder experience.
Whilst over the 2015-17 period the EPS growth measured on a constant currency basis would have been lower, it should 2 CFO be noted that this is the first occasion in the last five performance periods that LTIP vesting has been higher than if calculated on constant currency basis.
The Committee remains satisfied that measuring EPS growth on an actual currency basis is appropriate.
0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 1 Shareholding requirement Current shareholding 2017 vesting While the performance over the 2015 LTIP period has exceeded all pre-agreed EPS growth targets under the Remuneration Policy, the CEO 1 2017 vesting shows the estimated number of performance shares which will vest in volunteered a cut to the vesting outcomes as the Committee deemed fit.
respect of performance to 2017, after tax.
2 Adrian Hennah was appointed CFO in February 2013 and is making good progress towards achieving his shareholding requirement by 2021.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 80 Directors' Remuneration Report continued Board changes During 2017, RB announced that Chris Sinclair would succeed Adrian Bellamy as Company Chair at the 2018 AGM and the Committee has reviewed the fees for the role of Chairman in the light of this new appointment.
As the Chairman fee had not been reviewed for a number of years it had fallen behind market practice.
Therefore the Committee, with approval ofthe Board, has increased the total fees to 500,000, and increased theproportion paid in shares from 18% to 25%.
This new fee level is reflective of the role of the Chairman in a Company of RBs size and therequired time commitment.
Conclusion I hope that you find that this report demonstrates RBs commitment topay for performance, Shareholder alignment and consideration of remuneration outcomes within the context of overall performance.
The main focus of the Committee during 2018 will be to undertake a comprehensive review of our existing Remuneration Policy and I look forward to engaging fully with Shareholders and their representatives thisyear.
Mary Harris Chair of the Remuneration Committee 19 March 2018 This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Report meets the requirements of the FCA Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016 the Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company hascomplied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Committee governance 1 Whos on the Committee The Remuneration Committee is made up Mary Harris Chair entirely of Non-Executive Directors who are Judy Sprieser appointed by the Board on the recommendation Nicandro Durante of the Nomination Committee.
Membership of Chris Sinclair the Remuneration Committee during the year Adrian Bellamy was as follows: 1 Appointed to the Committee May 2017, appointed Chair November 2017.
Our role The Committees purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility by ensuring that Remuneration Policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly: are linked to corporate and individual performance: and take account of the generally accepted principles of good governance.
On behalf of, and subject to approval by, the Board of Directors, the Committee primarily: sets and regularly reviews the Companys overall remuneration strategy: determines the general Remuneration Policy for senior executives: and in respect of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, sets, reviews and approves: remuneration policies, including annual bonuses and long-term incentives: individual remuneration and compensation arrangements: individual benefits including pension and superannuation arrangements: terms and conditions of employment including the Executive Directors service agreements: participation in any of the Companys bonus and long-term incentive plans LTIPs : and the targets for any of the Companys performance-related bonus and LTIPs.
The Executive Directors are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board of Directors on the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Shareholders approved RBs Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 5 May 2016.
This was set out in full in the 2015 Annual Report and can also be found in the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.
com Meetings During the year the Committee held four scheduled meetings.
The attendance of members at meetings is set out in the table on page 63.
The SVP, Human Resources was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year.
Meetings were also attended by the CEO, CFO and the Group Head of Reward by invitation.
Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
Peer group The Remuneration Committee has determined a peer group of international companies, which is referred to within the report.
This peer group is used for benchmarking remuneration packages and also used as a reference point in ensuring that performance targets are appropriately stretching and when reviewing the Companys relative performance.
The companies included are: Avon Coca-Cola Johnson & Johnson Pfizer Bayer Colgate Kellogg Procter & Gamble Campbell Soup Danone Kimberly-Clark Sanofi Church and Dwight GSK Novartis Unilever Clorox Henkel PepsiCo
