74 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy 1.
Introduction to the policy This new policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 16 May 2018 and, if approved, will be effective immediately thereafter in place of the current policy approved at the 2015 AGM which will continue to apply until such time.
It is intended that the new policy will remain in force until the Companys AGM in 2021 and there are no planned changes to it over the three-year period to which it applies.
The new policy is very similar to the current one, save for the incremental changes to the way it is operated for Executives as summarised on page 73.
The remuneration linkage to strategy, through its structure and individual elements as described on page 71, remains unchanged.
Considerations when setting and determining the policy The Committees primary objective when setting the new policy is to align remuneration to the long-term success of the business and shareholders while at the same time enabling the Company to effectively recruit, motivate and retain key individuals.
To achieve this, the Committee takes into account the responsibilities, experience, performance and contribution of the individual, as well as levels of remuneration for individuals in comparable roles elsewhere.
The Committee also takes into account the views expressed by shareholders and institutional investors best practice expectations, and monitors developments in remuneration trends.
The policy places significant emphasis on the need to achieve stretching and rigorously applied performance targets, with a significant proportion of remuneration weighted towards performancelinked variable pay.
The Company does not formally consult with employees on executive remuneration.
However, when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee is committed to maintaining strong relationships and an open dialogue with shareholders and shareholder bodies and to encourage them to share their thoughts with us.
The Committee also values investors views in the process of formulating remuneration policy decisions.
The Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the current remuneration policy during the year to ensure it remains appropriate and fit for purpose in light of both the Companys strategy and developments in corporate governance and best practice expectations of investors.
In doing so, it engaged with shareholders holding more than 70% of the Companys shares, as well as the leading shareholder advisory bodies, on the key changes proposed, as set out in the summary table on page 73.
This helped the Committee to understand their views and formulate the final policy.
The changes were very well received and in response to our engagement with shareholders, the Committee made the following further amendments to those originally proposed: reduction in the threshold level of LTIP vesting from 30% to 25% for the TSR and EPS elements: extension of the application of malus and clawback to the whole of the annual bonus award, not just the deferred share element: and reduction in the Group Chief Executives current annual pension allowance from 35% to 30% of salary in three equal tranches commencing from 2019.
The Committee will continue to spend time each year considering feedback received at the AGM and throughout the year as part of its ongoing review of policy.
We are grateful for the time, assistance and support shareholders give us.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 75 Corporate Governance Report 4.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors 4.1 Summary of the individual elements of the policy for Executive Directors How element supports Performance conditions Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Base salary To provide base salaries which: Base salaries are paid monthly Whilst there is no prescribed Not applicable.
incash and normally reviewed formulaic maximum, base reflect the value of the annually with effect from salaries will reflect: Executives experience, 1January.
Reviews cover skills, knowledge and the Executives role: individual performance, contribution, and importance the job size and experience, development in the to the business: and responsibility: and role and market comparisons.
help attract, retain and the performance and motivate high performing To determine market effectiveness of the Executives of the calibre comparisons the Committee individual.
required to lead the business reviews remuneration data In addition, when reviewing and successfully implement on executive positions against Executive salaries, the strategy, but without comparator groups consisting consideration will always be paying more than is of transport leisure and general given to the approach to necessary to do so.
sector companies of similar employee pay across the Group size, complexity and and the general performance of international presence.
Therefore, salary The Committee retains the increases for Executives will not discretion to amend the normally exceed the general comparator groups as employee increase for the necessary to remain relevant.
country in which the individual is domiciled.
However, larger increases or above median salaries may be necessary, for example but without limitation : where there has been a material increase in the scope and or scale of the Executives responsibility in the role including internal promotion : to apply salary progression for a recently appointed Executive who has been appointed on a salary below the market level: and where an Executive is extremely experienced and has a long track record of proven performance.
In such circumstances, salaries may need to be in the upper quartile of comparable companies of similar size and complexity.
No increase would exceed 10% above RPI in any one year, except for internal promotion or where the Executives salary is below the market level.
Where such exceptional changes do occur, they will be fully disclosed and explained.
76 Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued How element supports Performance conditions Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Pension To provide a competitive Executive Directors receive The Committees policy is that Not applicable.
pension and funds that a cash allowance in lieu of a the maximum annual cash enable Executives to pension provision in line with allowance payable in lieu of save for retirement.
a pension provision will be 35% of base salary reducing Pension benefits are a fixed The current Group Chief to 30% in three equal tranches element of remuneration.
Executive receives a 35% of commencing from 2019. salary annual cash allowance.
For new Executive Directors, The other Executive Directors the annual cash allowance receive a 25% of salary annual will be no more than 25% cash allowance.
Only base salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits Executive Directors receive a The cost to the Company of Not applicable.
as part of fixed remuneration to combination of family private providing the benefits may vary enable the Group to recruit and healthcare, death-in-service from year to year in accordance retain highly performing and life assurance cover with market conditions.
4x salary, long-term sickness will therefore determine the and disability insurance, car maximum amount that would allowance, free travel on the be paid in the form of benefits Companys services and to Executives during the professional membership policy period.
They are also entitled to travel, subsistence and accommodation for business purposes.
The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits or remove benefits in order to remain competitive or to meet the needs of the business: for example, to provide relocation assistance to an Executive Director and his her family, including financial, tax and legal advice if applicable.
Any change to benefit provisions will be detailed on an annual basis.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 77 Corporate Governance Report How element supports Performance conditions Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Annual bonus To incentivise delivery of Bonus payments are based on Maximum 200% of base salary The targets for the bonus in respect near-term performance the achievement of prefor the Group Chief Executive of 2018 are as follows: objectives which are directly specified corporate objectives, and 150% of base salary for 75% subject to normalised profit linked to the financial and both financial and non-financial other Executive Directors.
and free cash flow targets: and strategic priorities of the including personal over a 25% subject to non-financial targets.
The Committee retains discretion in A portion of any bonus paid is A proportion of the bonus exceptional circumstances to amend deferred into shares, assisting payment is subject to the weightings of the financial and the retention of Executives and mandatory deferral gross into non-financial elements of the bonus further aligning their interests shares for one year from award from year to year and for each with those of shareholders.
as follows: Executive as appropriate.
25% of the bonus earned The targets attached to the financial up to 125% of salary: condition will typically relate to profit 50% of the bonus earned and or cash generation, are set on an between 125% to 150% of annual basis and are intended to be salary: and achievable at threshold and stretching 75% of the bonus earned at maximum.
above 150% of salary applicable to Group Chief The numerical values of the Executive only.
performance targets will not be disclosed in advance except for Dividends or dividend safety as the Committee considers equivalents which may assume this information commercially sensitive.
notional re-investment are paid Actual targets, performance achieved on the deferred share element.
and awards will be published at the The Remuneration Committee end of the performance period in order retains the discretion to that shareholders can fully assess the standardise the percentage of basis for any pay outs under the the bonus deferred into shares annual bonus.
if this is deemed appropriate The non-financial targets will be set in the future.
annually based on strategic objectives Unless the Committee for the year as set out in the Strategic determines otherwise, the Report.
These include safety, market price per share on operational, business development, the date of the award will be customer and talent development calculated on the basis of the employee related metrics and will be average share price in the five determined by the Committee on an days preceding the date of annual basis.
The proportion of the the grant.
bonus determined by performance against non-financial targets will only From the 2019 bonus year, become payable when the Company malus and clawback provisions achieves a threshold level of attach to the whole of the normalised profit.
bonus award and apply to the two-year period post award, The annual bonus includes an underpin including following cessation that enables the Remuneration of employment.
Committee to use its discretion, acting reasonably and proportionately, to Only the Executives currently scale back the annual bonus outcome, participate in the Companys including to nil.
This underpin applies bonus deferral arrangements.
if, as a result of the systematic failure Other senior management of management to put in place and members may be invited to operate effective safety processes, a participate in future years at significant negative event occurs that the Committees discretion.
has a material adverse impact on both the reputation of the Company and its Achievement of each element share price.
Additionally, to the extent of the bonus is assessed that legal, regulatory or other independently.
investigations are ongoing in relation to Bonus payments are paid such an event, the Committee has the following announcement discretion to delay the payment of a of the Companys audited bonus in whole or in part until those year end results and are investigations are completed.
78 Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Corporate Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued How element supports Performance conditions Element business strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Long-Term To incentivise performance, LTIP awards in the form of The Group Chief Executive is Awards will be subject to stretching Incentive Plan reward the execution of conditional shares, nil cost eligible to receive a conditional performance targets over a period LTIP strategy, aid retention and align options or forfeitable shares LTIP award of up to 200% of of three consecutive financial years.
the long-term interests of the are granted annually with salary per annum.
The Committee may change the Executives with those of vesting subject to the The normal maximum LTIP balance of the measures, or use shareholders.
achievement of performance award for other Executives different measures for subsequent conditions measured over a The performance conditions is 150% of salary per annum.
No material three-year consecutive financial are aligned with the business However, in special change will be made to the type of period commencing with the strategy, thereby driving circumstances, and to address performance conditions without prior year of award.
participants to achieve retention, incentive and shareholder consultation.
outcomes that create An additional two-year holding succession planning matters, For 2018, the performance measures shareholder value over period exists on vested LTIP an LTIP award of up to 200% for LTIP awards will be based equally the longterm.
awards of the Executive of salary may also be granted as follows: Directors in order to increase to other Executives in any the alignment of their interests one year.
1 3 earnings per share EPS : with those of shareholders.
1 3 return on capital employed ROCE : and Dividend equivalents can be 1 3 total shareholder return, split paid gross on vested shares 50 50 between the constituents of during both the vesting and the FTSE 250 Index and a bespoke holding periods.
index comprising a small group Awards are reviewed annually of competitor companies TSR.
to ensure that grant levels, Achievement of threshold performance performance criteria and other in respect of the EPS and TSR targets features remain appropriate to results in a 25% vesting for each part the Companys current of the award.
performance in respect of the ROCE Pursuant to Schedule 4 of target results in 0% vesting.
the Income Tax Earnings There is no ability to retest any of the and Pensions Act 2003, and performance conditions.
while providing no additional remuneration only tax The LTIP includes an underpin that efficiency in delivery of the enables the Remuneration Committee vested LTIP awards, the to use its discretion, acting reasonably Company may also grant to and proportionately, to scale back the the Executives a market value level of vesting, including to nil, in any approved Company Share financial year.
The underpin applies Option Plan CSOP option if, as a result of the systematic failure with a maximum face value of management to put in place and of 30,000 when such operate effective safety processes, opportunity is available a significant negative event occurs to them individually.
during the vesting period, that has a material adverse impact on both the Malus and clawback provisions reputation of the Company and its attach to all vested LTIP awards share price.
Additionally, to the and apply to the two-year extent that legal, regulatory or other period post vesting, including investigations are ongoing in relation following cessation of to such an event, the Committee employment.
has the discretion to delay the LTIP vesting in whole or in part until those investigations are completed.
The Committee also retains discretion under the LTIP rules to amend existing performance conditions to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Companys performance over the measurement period.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 79 Shareholding requirement This policy element ensures that the interests of the Executive Directors are closely aligned with those of shareholders.
Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period commencing from the later of 2015 when the provision was first introduced and their date of appointment.
The required holding value for the Group Chief Executive is equivalent to 200% of base salary and for the other Executives is 150% of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the Companys LTIP and other equity incentive arrangements.
The Committee retains discretion to increase the shareholding requirement over the life of the policy and will have regard to LTIP award levels when using this discretion.
4.2 Previous arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy, authority is sought by the Company to honour any outstanding commitments subject to existing terms, conditions and plan rules, as applicable entered into with current or former Directors as previously disclosed to shareholders before this policy took effect or before they became a Director.
4.3 Performance conditions under the Annual Bonus Plan Normalised PBT, free cash flow and non-financial measures were chosen for the annual bonus plan as appropriate measures of the Groups short-term performance.
The table below summarises the rationale for the selection of each element.
Measure Rationale for performance measure Normalised PBT A primary measure of the success of the Group in growing the business The profit definition for the annual bonus is pre tax and excludes other items over which management have limited control, such as exchange rate charges, to ensure that the target represents a fair measure of management performance Free cash flow Determines how efficiently the Group generates cash to fund its outgoings and to finance investment Free cash flow is a key driver for generating shareholder value Non-financial measures Non-financial metrics ensure that management are measured on a broader range of safety, strategic, people and operational targets Safety is of paramount importance to our business and therefore appropriate that management are incentivised to maintain and improve safety processes Strategic measures include business development and customer targets which ensure that management take the right actions now to grow the business in future and to maintain high levels of customer service People are the Groups primary asset.
Developing them, including todays talent and tomorrows leaders, is of paramount importance to the business Other metrics will be used to support business initiatives and these may change through the life of the policy 4.4 Performance conditions under the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan EPS, TSR and ROCE were chosen for the 2015 LTIP as appropriate measures of the Groups long-term performance.
Measure Rationale for performance measure EPS Important growth measure considered within the Company and a driver of shareholder value Provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging the financial performance of the Company Ensures the annual profit performancetargeted by the annual bonus plan flows through to long-term sustainable growth The Company calculates performance against this measure by reference to the earnings per share figures reported in the  TSR Improves shareholder alignment Consistent with the Companys objective of providing superior long-term returns to shareholders ROCE Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is operating with the resources available If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life of the policy, it will consult with shareholders in advance on the changes to be made and the reason for doing so.
80 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued 4.5 Total remuneration opportunity at various levels of performance Our aim is to ensure that superior awards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of Executive Directors remuneration payable in the form of variable pay.
The charts below illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided to each Executive Director at different levels of performance for the coming year.
Fixed 3,500 3,403 Annual variable 37% Long-term incentives 3,000 2,500 2,000 37% 1,722 1,543 1,543 12% 1,500 35% 35% 37% 1,000 881 825 825 35% 35% 100% 51% 26% 11% 11% 32% 32% 466 466 500 100% 57% 30% 100% 57% 30% 0 Min On-target Max Min On-target Max Min On-target Max Dean Finch Matt Ashley Chris Davies The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i Fixed: ii Annual variable: and iii Long-term incentives, which are set out in the future policy table below.
Element Descriptions Fixed Latest base salary, pension allowance and benefits Annual variable Performance-related annual bonus including deferred element Long-term incentives Long-Term Incentive Plan award Assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under the given scenarios are as follows: Salaries are those set as at 1 January 2018 Benefits are those paid in 2017 but excludes the relocation costs for Matt Ashley LTIP awards are granted at the normal annual level under the policy The Minimum performance level assumes fixed pay only and no variable payments The On-target performance level assumes performance in line with the Companys expectations, resulting in threshold LTIP vesting and 50% of maximum annual bonus payout.
While the bonus plan has targets for threshold, on-target and maximum, the LTIP only has targets for threshold and maximum for some metrics.
The value shown above for the On-target level includes the values for on-target bonus and threshold LTIP performance.
The Maximum performance level assumes an outstanding level of performance ie maximum annual bonus and full LTIP vesting Share price appreciation is ignored.
Remuneration 000s Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 81 4.6 Comparison with approach to remuneration across the Group The Group operates across a number of countries and accordingly sets terms and conditions for employees which reflect the different legislative requirements and labour market conditions that exist in each country.
We set Global People Standards to provide a framework for recognition and rewards internationally.
We will always meet or exceed national minimum standards of employment in all of our business areas offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each labour market in which we operate.
Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in each relevant labour market and performance-related pay arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and individual goals, objectively assessed.
National Express believes in the value of continuous improvement, both for the individual and for the Company.
The Group offers pension and pension savings arrangements to its employees appropriate for the labour markets in which it operates.
In the UK, in line with market practice, new employees are offered membership of a Defined Contribution DC plan with employer contributions up to 15% of salary.
The Group also has Defined Benefit DB schemes in its UK Bus division with employer contributions ranging between 25% and 40% of salary.
Historically, a majority of the Groups UK employees would have been in DB schemes when the Group operated rail franchises.
With the Group having exited UK rail in 2017, the majority of UK employees are now in the DC plan.
LTIP awards are also provided to selected members of the Senior Management Group to incentivise and reward them for delivering long-term value to the Group and shareholders.
The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
4.7 Executive Directors Service Agreements The Executive Directors each have a Service Agreement with the Company and the table below shows the date of those agreements and the relevant notice period to be provided by either party in normal circumstances.
Date of Date of Notice period Notice period Executive Directors Service Agreement appointment from Company from Director Dean Finch 16.12.09 15.02.10 12 months 6 months Matthew Ashley 16.07.15 28.01.15 12 months 6 months Chris Davies 17.01.17 10.05.17 12 months 6 months The Service Agreement for Dean Finch, which is a rolling contract, contains a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount on termination of employment equal to one years salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
The Director will not be obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding his departure justify their use.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on executive remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders.
Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors contractual provisions.
The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions made of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return.
The benefits under this arrangement ceased to accrue from 5 June 2016.
In normal circumstances, the pension is payable, at the earliest, from 1 April 2022, with all or part of it capable of being paid as a lump sum at the Companys discretion.
On a change of control of the Company, outstanding LTIP awards will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate.
The number or class of shares under award may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
Vested LTIP shares subject to a holding period and any outstanding deferred bonus shares will vest automatically to participants on a change of control.
82 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued 4.8 Executive Directors employment termination arrangements Same as referred to in 4.7 above, the Company may at its discretion make payment in lieu of notice, which could potentially include up to 12 months base salary, benefits and pension, and which may be subject to payment by instalments and or mitigation.
The table below sets out the treatment of the elements of remuneration that would normally apply where an Executive Directors service with the Company is terminated: Salary, pension and Unvested deferred share Reason for termination contractual benefits Annual bonus bonus awards Unvested LTIP awards Other Good leaver: retirement, Payment equal to the Bonus awarded subject Awards vest on date Unvested LTIP awards Fees for disability, redundancy, aggregate of the base to the satisfaction of of termination.
will vest on the date of outplacement death, sale of part of salary and pension performance targets for termination or on the and legal advice Company that employs allowance and the value the relevant financial year.
normal vesting date may be paid.
participant or any of any contractual benefits as determined by the other reason that during the notice period, Remuneration Committee.
the Remuneration including any accrued but Committee determines.
The amount of an award vesting will be subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions measured as at the date the award is deemed to vest.
Awards will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect the time elapsed between the date of grant and the date of termination.
Awards lapse in full Awards lapse in full Other reasons Paid to date of termination, No awards made for the 1. on termination.
including any accrued but year of termination untaken holiday.
1 Pursuant to Dean Finchs Service Agreement dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by the Executive such as gross misconduct, he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated from the commencement of the relevant bonus year in which termination takes place up to the date of termination.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee may, in its discretion, treat the Executive as a good leaver in relation to their reason for leaving under the first section of the above table.
The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company performance and the specific circumstances of the Executives departure, including, but not limited to, whether the Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with the Company.
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether unvested LTIP awards should be pro-rated for a good leaver to reflect their completed period of service since the date of grant.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments to an Executive Director where such payments are made in good faith: to discharge an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of office or employment.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 83 4.9 Approach to the remuneration of newly appointed Executive Directors In the event that the Company recruits a new Executive Director either from within the organisation or externally, when determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including, but not limited to, quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction from which the candidate is being recruited.
This is to ensure that the arrangements made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to recruit an Executive of the required calibre.
The Committees policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling service contracts with a notice period of 12 months.
The only exception to this is where, in exceptional circumstances, it is deemed necessary to offer a longer notice period initially, reducing down to 12 months, in order to secure the appointment of an external recruit.
The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration of any new Executive Director with the same principles as apply for the current Executive Directors.
In line with the above policy, the elements that would be considered by the Company for inclusion in the remuneration package of a new Executive Director are: salary and benefits, including a cash allowance in lieu of a pension provision: participation in the performance-related annual bonus of up to 200% of salary depending on role, pro-rated for the period of service in the year of recruitment.
If the commencement date is after 1 September, no award would normally be made for that year: participation in the LTIP with award levels applicable for that grade.
On appointment, that would be a maximum value of 200% of salary, although this may be pro-rated depending on the time of appointment through the year: and costs and outgoings relating to, but not limited to, relocation assistance: legal, financial, tax and visa advice: and pre-employment medical checks.
Other elements may be included where an interim appointment is being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis or similarly if the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis.
The Committee may also make awards on the appointment of an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements being forfeited by the individual on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee would take into account both market practice and any relevant commercial factors in considering whether any enhanced and or one-off annual incentive or long-term incentive award was appropriate.
Awards made by way of compensation for forfeited awards would be made on a comparable basis, taking account of performance conditions and achievements or likely achievements, the proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of the award.
Compensation could be in the form of cash and or shares.
The Committee will not offer any non-performance related incentives payments for example, a guaranteed signing-on bonus or golden hello.
Leaver provisions will be determined in line with this policy when buy-out awards are made.
4.10 Executive Directors external appointments Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
If approved, the individual is permitted to retain any fees paid in respect of such office or services.
At present, none of the Executive Directors hold an external appointment.
84 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued 5.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors 5.1.
Summary of the individual elements of the policy for Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value Fees To attract, retain and motivate high The single fee paid to the Chairman for all Board duties is set by the The Committees policy is performing persons of a suitable Remuneration Committee and the basic and additional fees paid to set fees at an appropriate calibre for a business of this size to the other Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
level taking into account the and complexity.
factors outlined in this table.
The fees are reviewed though not necessarily changed annually To pay fees which are reflective having regard to independent advice and published surveys.
The review of responsibilities and time takes account of fees paid for similar positions in the market, the time commitments, competitive commitment required from the Director estimated to be 60 days per with peer companies, without year for the Chairman and 20 days per year as a basic requirement for paying more than is necessary.
other Non-Executive Directors and any additional responsibilities and time commitments required in chairing various Board Committees or acting as the Senior Independent Director.
A travel allowance is also paid to Non-Executive Directors for attendance at Board meetings or other Board related matters held outside their continent of residence.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in long-term incentive arrangements.
Appointments The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors are not employed and do not have service agreements with the Company: they are also not entitled to participate in the Groups pension, annual bonus or long-term incentive arrangements.
Instead, they are appointed under individual Letters of Appointment and only receive a fee for their services.
On appointment, the fee arrangements for a new Non-Executive Director will be determined in accordance with the policy in force at that time.
The Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for an initial three-year term but with an expectancy that they will serve for at least two three-year terms.
That said, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, they and the Executive Directors are required to stand for election or re-election by shareholders at each AGM and their appointment can be terminated at any time without compensation by either party usually by either party serving not less than one months prior written notice.
The Letters of Appointment for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, together with the Service Agreements for the Executive Directors, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Their dates of appointment and current notice periods are shown in the table below.
Non-Executive Directors dates of appointment and notice periods Notice period from Date of either party Non-Executive Director appointment months Sir John Armitt CBE 01.01.13 3 Joaqun Ayuso 01.06.11 1 Jorge Cosmen 01.12.05 0 Chris Muntwyler 11.05.11 1 Lee Sander 01.06.11 1 Jane Kingston 26.02.14 1 Matthew Crummack 06.05.15 1 Mike McKeon 03.07.15 1 Dr Ashley Steel 01.01.16 1 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 85 Annual Report on Remuneration This Annual Report on Remuneration describes how the current Directors Remuneration Policy, approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, was applied in the financial year to 31 December 2017, and how it will be applied in the financial year commenced 1 January 2018.
The relevant sections of this report have been audited, as required by the Regulations.
Remuneration background relating to Executive Director changes during the year a Chris Davies: appointment as Group Finance Director Chris Davies joined the Company on 2 May, was appointed an Executive Director on 10 May and became Group Finance Director in succession to Matt Ashley see below on 1 June 2017.
His remuneration package on appointment was the same as his predecessor and his Service Agreement is in line with the Companys standard form at this level, including a 12-month notice period from the Company.
Mr Davies received his first full annual LTIP award on appointment with the same three-year performance conditions and scheduled vesting date of 2020 as applied to the annual LTIP awards made to the other Executive Directors on 18 April 2017.
At the same time, he also received two Recruitment Incentive Awards RIAs under the LTIP in recognition of certain incentives he forfeited on leaving his previous employer to join the Company.
The RIAs are scheduled to vest on the first and second anniversary of grant subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the LTIP awards granted to the Executives in 2015 and 2016 which are also scheduled to vest in 2018 and 2019 respectively.
b Matt Ashley: appointment as President and CEO, North America As part of a career development opportunity for him and a strengthening of the executive team for the Company, Matt Ashley relinquished his role as Group Finance Director but retained his executive directorship on 31 May.
This was to take up a two-year minimum assignment as President and CEO, North America, based in Chicago, commencing 1 September 2017.
In order for Mr Ashley to commence his new role the transition for which started on 1 June, and for his family to join him in Chicago, the Company provided him with a relocation assistance package in line with normal practice for an international relocation at executive level.
The package, which includes tax equalisation and exchange rate protection, falls into the following four main categories: pre-visit costs for school and accommodation search purposes: relocation costs related to storage, shipping, incidental expenditure and legal, professional and visa processing fees: ongoing costs, including a 10% of salary disturbance allowance to reflect the economic cost to his family of the relocation, occasional return flights to the UK, school fees, rented unfurnished accommodation, company car, medical and travel insurance, and tax return preparation assistance: and return costs associated with shipping and return flights to the UK.
As Mr Ashley is liable to tax on these deemed relocation benefits, the amount paid to him in the year substantially in the US, as set out in this report under Relocation benefits, is the total grossed-up cost of tax amount estimated to paid by the Company except in relation to the disturbance allowance on his behalf.
Specific details confirming the above elements of remuneration are provided in this report.
Further ongoing relocation cost details for Mr Ashley will be disclosed in next years report.
86 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2017 with comparative figures provided for 2016.
The subsequent tables and information give more detail on how we have measured the performance outcomes with respect to the annual bonus and LTIPs in the context of value created for shareholders.
2017 Base Taxable Pension Annual LTIPs Relocation 3 4 5 000 salary benefits allowance bonus vested Sub-total benefits Total Dean Finch 615 30 215 1,169 2,038 4,067 4,067 Chris Davies 233 12 59 333 112 749 749 6 Matt Ashley 350 18 88 499 541 1,496 296 1,792 2016 Base Taxable Pension Annual LTIPs 7 7 000 salary benefits allowance bonus vested Total Dean Finch 589 29 206 984 2,079 3,887 Chris Davies Matt Ashley 325 17 81 431 538 1,392 1 As explained in 1 a above, Chris Davies joined the Company on 2 May and was appointed a Director on 10 May 2017.
His remuneration is shown pro rata to his period of service during the year.
2 Matt Ashley relinquished his position as Group Finance Director but not his executive directorship on 1 June to take up his new role as President and CEO, North America, based in Chicago, effective from 1 September 2017.
3 Taxable benefits comprise a car allowance, private medical insurance and death in service and life assurance cover.
4 The annual bonus represents the gross bonus declared and to be paid in March 2018 in connection with performance achieved in the year.
As explained on page 88, part of this bonus will be paid in cash and part will be deferred for one year in the form of forfeitable shares in the Company.
5 The LTIP represents the estimated value of shares that are scheduled to vest in March and or May 2018 arising from a five-year legacy award made to Dean Finch in 2013, athree-year award made to Messrs. Finch and Ashley in 2015 and a one-year Recruitment Incentive Award made to Chris Davies in 2017.
All such awards were based on a 31 December 2017 performance period end and their values have been calculated using a share price of 363.9p being the three-month average to 31 December 2017.
For Messrs. Finch and Ashley, the value also includes, in relation to their 2015 awards only, the dividend equivalent of 27.87p per share earned on the vested shares during the vesting period to be paid to them in cash on vesting.
The actual values of vested shares including the cash equivalent dividends received will be confirmed in next years report.
6 As explained in section 1 b above, Matt Ashley was given an international relocation package to assist him and his family with their move to Chicago.
As Mr Ashley is liable to tax on these deemed relocation benefits, the amount paid to him in the year is the total grossed-up cost of tax amount estimated to paid by the Company except in relation to the disturbance allowance on his behalf.
Additionally, in respect of the relocation benefits paid to him in the US during the year, the total amount shown includes the converted value of such benefits based on an exchange rate of $1.2888:1, being the average rate for 2017.
7 Since last years LTIP values of vested shares were estimated the 2016 LTIPs vested and total comparative figures for each of Messrs. Finch and Ashley have been adjusted to reflect actual values on vesting.
For Dean Finch, 440,095 shares vested on 9 April 2017 when the closing share price was 360.3p and 130,703 shares vested on 3 August 2017 when the closing share price was 366.7p.
For Matt Ashley, 149,372 shares vested on 9 April 2017 when the closing share price was 360.3p.
a Base salary As explained in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration, the base salaries set by the Committee for 2017 were 615,000 for Dean Finch and 350,000 for Matt Ashley.
There was no change to Mr Ashleys base salary or any other parts of his remuneration or Service Agreement with the Company when he relinquished his role but not his executive directorship on 31 May to take up the position as President and CEO, North America, based in Chicago, on 1 September 2017 see 1. b above.
Chris Davies joined the Company on 2 May and was appointed to the Board on 10 May.
He took up the role of Group Finance Director, in succession to Mr Ashley, on 1 June 2017.
His base salary and other elements of remuneration for 2017 was set at the same level as his predecessor, ie 350,000 pa see 1. a above.
b Pensions The Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in the Groups pension schemes.
Instead, they receive a pension allowance gross which does not qualify as salary or for any other benefit or entitlement.
The Group Chief Executive currently receives an allowance of 35% of salary and each of the other Executive Directors receives an allowance of 25% of salary.
Under the proposed the new policy, the Group Chief Executives pension allowance will be reduced from 35% to 30% of salary in three equal tranches commencing in 2019 see page 76.
Benefits under the Group Chief Executives previous unfunded pension arrangement ceased to accrue with effect from 5 June 2016 see note 9 on page 96].
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 87 c Annual bonus A summary of the 2017 performance-related bonus plan for the Executive Directors is set out below.
Group Chief Executive: Maximum opportunity 200% of salary Target weighting 75% financial 25% non-financial including 18% safety related Deferred element 25% of bonus earned up to 125% of salary 50% of bonus earned between 125% 150% of salary 75% of bonus earned between 150% 200% of salary Other Executive Directors: Maximum opportunity 150% of salary Target weighting 75% financial 25% non-financial including 18% safety related Deferred element 25% of bonus earned up to 125% of salary 50% of bonus earned between 125% 150% of salary The Committee has full discretion in the payment of annual bonuses.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Committee has determined that there has been an improvement in the Groups safety processes, procedures and outcomes during the year.
In respect of the latter, the Committee consulted with the Chair of the Safety & Environment Committee, and satisfied itself that based on: i the level of due diligence undertaken by that Committee, and ii the evidence made available in support of the Groups safety performance against the basket of measures we consistently compare ourselves against, 2017 had been another year in which the Groups performance had shown year-onyear improvement in its safety processes, procedures and outcomes.
For any financial element of the bonus to be payable, the Group must have achieved at least the threshold level of normalised profit target for the year.
The Committee has reviewed performance against the financial and non-financial targets attached to the 2017 bonus plan and, in addition, made an assessment of the Groups overall performance in 2017.
2017 bonus structure and performance conditions The following table sets out the structure and performance conditions which attached to the 2017 bonus plan.
Group Chief Other Executive Executive Directors % of base % of base Structure salary salary Performance conditions Maximum bonus opportunity 200% 150% Proportion of bonus subject to compulsory deferral into Company shares for one year from award Bonus potential at 90% of budgeted normalised PBT 0% 0% Awarded on achieving threshold level On-target bonus potential at 100% of budgeted normalised PBT 50% 37.5% Awarded on achieving budget Stretch bonus for 110% of budgeted normalised PBT 100% 75% Awarded on achieving a stretch target of 110% of normalised PBT Bonus potential at 90% of budgeted free cash flow 0% 0% Awarded on achieving threshold level On-target bonus potential at 100% of budgeted free cash flow 25% 18.75% Awarded on achieving budget Stretch bonus potential at 110% of budgeted free cash flow 50% 37.5% Awarded on achieving a stretch target of 110% of budgeted free cash flow Non-financial targets underpinned by achievement of 90% of 50% 37.5% Awarded on meeting key strategic Group objectives tailored to each Executive Directors responsibilities budgeted normalised PBT 88 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2017 bonus targets, outturns and awards The following table sets out the targets, performance outturns and awards in respect of the 2017 bonus plan.
No discretion was applied by the Committee in determining the awards.
Bonus value achievable between Threshold and Actual bonus value achieved Measure Weighting Threshold On-target Maximum Actual Maximum % of salary % of salary and or 000 Other Financial Executive 1 targets Dean Finch Directors Dean Finch Matt Ashley Chris Davies 2 Normalised PBT 50% 158.9m 176.6m 194.3m 200.0m 0%-100% 0%-75% 100% 75% 75% 3 Free cash flow 25% 103.5m 115.0m 126.5m 146.4m 0%-50% 0%-37.5% 50% 37.5% 37.5% Non-financial 4 targets 25% 0%-50% 0%-37.5% 40% 30% 30% Total bonus 190% 142.5% 142.5% awarded 1,169 499 333 To be paid 116.3% 102.3% 102.3% in cash 715 358 239 To be deferred 73.8% 40.3% 40.3% in shares 454 141 94 1 Pro-rated to reflect service during the year as an Executive Director from 10 May 2017.
2 The original normalised PBT Target was set at 180.1m.
This was adjusted to 176.6m to reflect foreign exchange rate movements, the exit from UK rail and growth capital profit.
The Maximum and Threshold levels have also been adjusted to reflect their original 10% linkage to Target.
3 The original free cash flow target was 117.1m.
This was adjusted to 115.0m to reflect foreign exchange rate movements and growth capital profit.
TheMaximum and Threshold levels have also been adjusted to reflect their original 10% linkage to Target.
4 Details of the non-financial bonus targets, and the corresponding performance outturns for each of the Executive Directors, is set out below.
The cash bonus will be paid, and the deferred bonus award granted in the form of forfeitable shares in the Company under the rules of the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP, in March 2018.
The forfeitable shares: will be calculated based on the Companys average share price for the five business days immediately preceding the date of grant: will be held in the Companys Employee Benefit Trust where the beneficial interest is held by, and dividends arising on them are paid to, the Executive Director: will vest on the first anniversary of grant, subject to continued service or, in the absence of the same, good leaver status being confirmed under the EDBP: and are subject to malus and clawback for a two-year period from the date of grant.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 89 Summary of non-financial bonus targets and corresponding performance outturns for 2017 As Matt Ashley and Chris Davies were new to their roles in 2017, all three Executive Directors Dean Finch, Matt Ashley and Chris Davies have been judged against the below common set of objectives which in total represented a 25% target weighting of the annual bonus opportunity for each person.
Objective Performance Safety 10% of 25% Deliver a year-on-year Safety, as measured by the FWI, improved materially from 17.085 in 2016 or 10.585 excluding Chattanooga to a record low of 8.574. improvement in the Both UK bus and UK coach have again been awarded the BSC Safety Sword of Honour and each retained 5-star British Safety Fatalities and Weighted Council ratings UK bus with a score of 97.4, the highest in the industry for the year.
North America regained its satisfactory Injuries Index FWI.
Department of Transportation DOT safety rating the highest rating awarded by the DOT.
Safety systems and processes 8% of 25% Progress with the The Group-wide Customer Feedback Management System is being supplied by iCaseworks.
The target completion date for full implementation of a Group implementation is June 2018.
In North America, the system is now live and available to all student transportation CSCs.
single system in each ALSA is also well progressed and German Rail implementation is planned for April 2018.
The UK will be completed in June 2018. business to capture In all Divisions, work has been done to enable the system to be implemented on schedule.
all complaints and DriveCam is on target.
6,351 units have been installed in North America, and the full fleet is fitted in the UK.
In Spain, data protection comments relating issues required our supplier to set up a centre in Europe which was done in November - 152 units are now fitted and working.
to drivers Bahrain and Morocco are fully fitted with CCTV.
All progress is consistent with the 2020 plan.
Continue the roll-out Master Driver - we now have 698 Master Drivers of which UK bus has 338, UK coach 73 partner operators start in 2018 and ALSA of DriveCam CCTV 287.
North America has commenced a pilot of the programme.
Bahrain is finalising the external verifier in Q1 2018 now that the and Master Driver drivers have the required length of service to qualify for the programme.
Improve Driver Performance Competency of Driver Managers - on target for the 2020 plan.
The North America pilot starts in January 2018: UK pilots took place in management Autumn 2017 and training for all trainers started in January 2018: Spain and Morocco training started in Autumn 2017 and continues systems, including into Q1 2018: Bahrain training commences in Q1 2018. the competence of Driver Performance Management - largely on target and at the early stage of implementation.
Each of the Divisions is implementing driver managers this policy at a different pace as it is dependent on the electronic collation of data on the drivers.
Electronic database of drivers has Improve the been put in place in ALSA, Bahrain and North America: risk profiling has been developed and is being trialled in the UK, ALSA and assessment, Bahrain.
monitoring and Our proposed driver evaluation system was checked by the University of Oviedo in Spain which, at the end of June 2017, said the coaching of drivers test is excellent with a high reliability coefficient.
It was only with this test validation that roll-out could start.
This initiative is currently Improve the on target: North America will be piloted in Q1 2018: UK started in January 2018 and Spain and Morocco in October and November management 2017 respectively: Bahrain trialled in December 2017. of speeding Progress the All Divisions have implemented monitoring of speed.
There have been challenges with the technology which have had to be worked implementation through.
Significant progress has been made in all Divisions in reducing incidents of speeding.
of world class With the appointment of Miguel Alonso as Group Engineering Director, progress has been made on all seven elements that make up maintenance.
World Class Maintenance ie Vehicle Maintenance, Specifications, Process, Supplier Relationships, People, Facilities and Equipment and Assurance.
Of the 10 Global Maintenance Standards identified, seven have been issued and three are in draft.
Business development 7% of 25% Sell c2c, the UK The c2c UK rail franchise was successfully sold in February 2017 delivering a significant cash benefit to the Group and removing rail franchise a future risk.
Subsequent developments in the UK rail industry have supported the long-term strategic value of this divestment.
Continue to develop We conducted a comprehensive and objective review of the potential returns in both existing and new markets in order to balance the M&A strategy risk and reward when investing Group capital.
Market entry strategies outside of core markets were also analysed.
Continue to develop We continued our successful bolt-on M&A activity in North America and ALSA again this year with nine deals completed.
the international diversification strategy, During 2017, we made two senior hires to lead the international team.
The team performed a review of global market attractiveness including building the with deep dives into potential markets, and worked in tandem with ALSA on two significant bids.
A comprehensive pipeline of talents of the team opportunities is being developed.
Continue to develop After an extensive search, the Group has hired a new Chief Digital Officer CDO to develop and lead our digital strategy.
Working the digital strategy with the Group Commercial Director, the CDO is focusing on areas where digital can drive revenues or reduce costs.
The team Promote the continues to evaluate and respond to threats created by digital disruptors, and is also looking at opportunities to use digital to build development of on our core strengths.
the Operational During 2017, two international Operational Excellence project teams were formed and they conducted studies into driver recruiting, Excellence initiative.
The 11 participants on the programme were drawn from our graduate programme and other high potentials.
Two project teams will again be run in 2018 and the first project commenced in January.
Based on the above assessment against the objectives set, the Committee determined that for the non-financial elements of their respective bonuses, the performance of Dean Finch warranted a 40% pay out of a 50% of salary maximum opportunity, and each of Matt Ashley and Chris Davies warranted a 30% pay out of a 37.5% of salary maximum opportunity.
90 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued d Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP vesting and awards LTIP vesting in 2018 LTIP awards granted in 2013, 2015 and 2017 to the Executive Directors are scheduled to vest in March and or May 2018 as the performance measurement periods relating to them ended on 31 December 2017.
Details of the performance conditions attaching to the awards, and the extent to which they have been met, are set out below.
1 2013 5-year LTIP award Dean Finch only Threshold Maximum Percentage Performance condition Weighting 30% vesting 100% vesting Actual vesting Median Upper Upper Quintile th TSR vs. selected Travel & Leisure comparator group 1 2 Median Quintile Rank 7 of 15 23.4% 2 EPS 1 2 23.4p 28.3p 30.0p 50.0% Total vesting 73.4% 1 As previously reported, there is only one more 5-year LTIP award outstanding to the Group Chief Executive.
This was granted in 2014 and will vest on 9 April 2019 subject to performance conditions achieved for the 5-year financial period ending 31 December 2018.
2 This has been adjusted from 29.1p to reflect foreign exchange rate movements, the exit from UK rail and growth capital profit.
2015 3-year LTIP awards Dean Finch and Matt Ashley 2017 1-year LTIP Recruitment Incentive Award Chris Davies only Threshold Target Maximum Percentage Performance condition Weighting 30% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting Actual vesting Median Upper Upper Quintile th TSR vs. FTSE 250 Index 1 6 Median Quintile Rank 59 of 221 14.2% Equal to Index Index 1 TSR vs. Bespoke Index 1 6 Index 10% pa 10% pa 16.7% 2 EPS 1 3 24.8p 26.3p 28.6p 30.0p 33.3% ROCE 1 3 9% 10% 12% 11.9% 32.5% Total vesting 96.7% 1 Comprising three comparator companies, namely: FirstGroup plc, Stagecoach Group plc and Go-Ahead Group plc.
For TSR measures, straight-line vesting will occur between threshold and maximum levels of performance.
For EPS and ROCE measures, straight-line vesting will occur between threshold and target, and target and maximum levels of performance.
Vesting details In relation to Dean Finch, he was granted: in 2013 a 5-year LTIP award in the form of a nil cost option over 257,953 shares.
As 73.4% of the performance conditions have been met, 189,337 of these shares are scheduled to vest on 23 May 2018: and in 2015 a 3-year LTIP award in the form of a nil cost option over 356,303 shares.
As 96.7% of the performance conditions have been met, 344,545 of these shares are scheduled to vest on 5 March 2018.
A portion of the vested award will be delivered in the form of an approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP option exercise over 9,526 shares at an option price of 314.9p per share.
In relation to Matt Ashley, he was granted in 2015, a 3-year LTIP award in the form of a nil cost option over 142,902 shares.
As 96.7% of the performance conditions have been met, 138,186 of these shares are scheduled to vest on 5 March 2018.
In relation to Messrs. Finch and Ashley and their respective 2015 3-year LTIP share vesting: they will each receive a cash dividend equivalent payment gross of the total dividend paid by the Company on the number of vested shares during the vesting period, amounting to 96,024 and 38,512 respectively: and the vested shares are subject to a two-year holding period and malus and clawback, including post cessation of employment, for two years from the date of vesting.
The Executives are also entitled to receive cash dividend equivalent payments on the vested shares during the holding period while the options remain unexercised.
In relation to Chris Davies, he was granted in 2017 a 1-year LTIP Recruitment Incentive Award in the form of a nil cost option over 31,867 shares.
These were granted with the same performance conditions as attached to the 2015 3-year LTIP awards as above.
As 96.7% of the performance conditions have been met, 30,815 of these shares are scheduled to vest on 10 May 2018.
He is not entitled to any cash dividend equivalent payment on these vested shares and they are not subject to a holding period.
Malus and clawback do apply.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 91 LTIP awards made in 2017 The tables below set out details of the LTIP awards granted to the Executive Directors in 2017 where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be measured over future financial periods.
3-year LTIP awards Dean Finch Number of Face value 1 shares Award of award Percentage vesting at Grant date awarded Award type amount, 000 threshold performance Performance period Performance conditions Nil cost 200% TSR and EPS: 30% TSR, EPS and ROCE 18.04.17 341,476 option of salary 1,230 ROCE: 0% 01.01.17 31.12.19 see below Matt Ashley Number of Face value 1 shares Award of award Percentage vesting at Grant date awarded Award type amount, 000 threshold performance Performance period Performance conditions 150% TSR and EPS: 30% TSR, EPS and ROCE Nil cost 2 18.04.17 145,752 option of salary 525 ROCE: 0% 01.01.17 31.12.19 see below Chris Davies Number of Face value 1 shares Award of award Percentage vesting at Grant date awarded Award type amount, 000 threshold performance Performance period Performance conditions 150% TSR and EPS: 30% TSR, EPS and ROCE Nil cost 2 10.05.17 143,403 option of salary 525 ROCE: 0% 01.01.17 31.12.19 see below 1 The face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the share price at the time grant.
The relevant share prices were 360.2p on 17 April and 366.1p on 9 May 2017, each being the closing share price on the day preceding the date of grant.
2 A portion of the award has been granted in the form of approved CSOP options over shares with a face value of 30,000 aligned with the requirements of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 with an exercise price of 360.2p for awards granted on 18 April 2017 and 366.1p for awards granted on 10 May 2017.
1-year and 2-year LTIP Recruitment Incentive Awards Chris Davies Number of Face value 3 shares Award Award of award Percentage vesting at Grant date awarded type amount, 000 threshold performance Performance period Performance conditions Nil cost 34% TSR and EPS: 30% TSR, EPS and ROCE 4 10.05.17 1-year 31,867 option of salary 117 ROCE: 0% 01.01.15 31.12.17 see Nil cost 66% TSR and EPS: 30% TSR, EPS and ROCE 5 10.05.17 2-year 63,735 option of salary 233 ROCE: 0% 01.01.16 31.12.18 see 3 The face value has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the share price at the time grant.
The relevant share price was 366.1p on 9 May 2017, being the closing share price on the day preceding the date of grant.
4 These awards were granted with the same performance conditions as attached to the 2015 3-year LTIP awards scheduled to vest in 2018.
Details of the performance period conditions, outturns and scheduled vesting can be found on page 90.
5 These awards were granted with the same performance conditions as attached to the 2016 3-year LTIP awards as previously reported scheduled to vest in 2019.
Performance conditions for 3-year LTIP awards The following table sets out the performance conditions attaching to the 3-year LTIP awards granted in the form of nil cost options to the Executive Directors in 2017 which will be measured over the three-year financial period ending 31 December 2019.
1 EPS ROCE TSR vs. FTSE 250 Index TSR vs. Bespoke Index Percentage vesting Performance level 1 3 of award 1 3 of award 1 6 of award 1 6 of award of award Below Threshold Less than 29.8p Below 9% Below Median Below Index 0% EPS and TSR: 30% Threshold 29.8p 9% Median Equal to Index ROCE: 0% Target 31.6p 10% EPS and ROCE only : 50% Maximum 34.4p or above 12% or above Upper Quintile Index 10% pa 100% 1 Comprising three comparator companies, namely: FirstGroup plc, Stagecoach Group plc and Go-Ahead Group plc.
92 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued For TSR measures, straight-line vesting will occur between Threshold and Maximum levels of performance.
For EPS and ROCE measures, straight-line vesting will occur between Threshold and Target, and Target and Maximum levels of performance.
Vested shares will be subject to a two-year holding period and malus and clawback for two years, including post cessation of employment, from the date of vesting.
Dividend equivalents are payable on vested shares over the vesting period and during the holding period while the option remains unexercised.
Indicative vesting levels for other outstanding LTIP awards The table below sets out the indicative vesting levels for other outstanding LTIP awards assuming their respective performance conditions had been tested through to 31 December 2017 without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of time that is less than the length of the performance period.
1 LTIP award year type EPS ROCE TSR vs. FTSE 250 Index TSR vs Bespoke Index Total Performance condition Weighting Vesting Weighting Vesting Weighting Vesting Weighting Vesting max 100% 2014 5-year LTIP Dean Finch only 1 2 100% 1 4 58.6% 1 4 100% 89.7% 2016 3-year LTIP including 2-year Recruitment Incentive Award to 2 ChrisDavies 1 3 91.7% 1 3 97.5% 1 6 38.5% 1 6 100% 86.2% 2017 3-year LTIP 1 3 0% 1 3 97.5% 1 6 0% 1 6 100% 49.2% Comprising three comparator companies, namely: First Group plc, Stagecoach plc and Go-Ahead Group plc.
2 Granted under the LTIP with the same performance conditions as apply to the 2016 3-year LTIP awards which are also scheduled to vest in 2019.
Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP The table below sets out the awards, in the form of forfeitable shares in the Company: which were granted to the Executive Directors on 8 March 2017 under the EDBP and which related to the deferred element of the bonus for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
These shares, with a one-year deferred period, are scheduled to vest on 8 March 2018.
Dividends paid by the Company on these shares during the deferred period have been passed to the Executives as per their entitlement under the rules of the EDBP: and which vested on 15 March 2017 and related to the one-year deferred element of the bonus for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
As at As at Market price 1January 31December at date of Date of Date of Executive Director 2017 Granted Vested Lapsed 2017 vesting grant vesting Dean Finch 2016 129,550 129,550 0 359p 15.03.16 15.03.17 2017 91,838 91,838 08.03.17 08.03.18 Matt Ashley 2016 40,278 40,278 0 359p 15.03.16 15.03.17 2017 31,503 31,503 08.03.17 08.03.18 Forfeitable share awards in the Company relating to the one-year deferred element of the bonus declared for the financial year ended 31December 2017 see page 88 will be granted to the Executive Directors in March 2018, subject to the rules of the EDBP, andwill ordinarily vest on the first anniversary of grant.
Dividends paid on these shares during the deferred period will be passed on to the Executives.
These awards are subject to malus and clawback for a two-year period from the date of grant, including post cessation of employment.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 93 3.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration fees for the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year.
2017 2016 Non-Executive Director 000 000 Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman and Nominations Committee Chair 240 230 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Chairman 52 49 1 Joaqun Ayuso 52 49 Matthew Crummack 52 49 Jane Kingston Remuneration Committee Chair 62 59 Mike McKeon Audit Committee Chair 62 59 1 Chris Muntwyler Safety & Environment Committee Chair 62 59 1 Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 59 54 Dr Ashley Steel 52 49 1 A travel allowance of 4,000 is payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander as overseas based Directors for attendance at each Board meeting or other Board related matter held outside their continent of residence.
For 2017, the allowances paid were as follows: Joaqun Ayuso 4,000, Chris Muntwyler 4,000 and Lee Sander 24,000.
With effect from 1 January 2017: the Committee determined that the Chairmans fee would increase by 4.3% to 240,000 pa in recognition of the significant contribution and unique attributes Sir John Armitt brings to the Board and to bring his fee to a more competitive level the Board determined that the Non-Executive Directors base fee would increase by 5% to 51,500 pa and the fee for the Senior Independent Director would increase by 5% to 7,500 pa in order to ensure they reflect the role, responsibilities and market rate for these positions there would be no change in the Committee Chair fee which remained at 10,000 pa. Payments to past Directors There were no payments made to past Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments made for loss of office to any former Director during the year.
Statement of Directors shareholdings Executive Directors interests and share ownership guidelines In order to align the interests of the Executive Directors more closely with those of shareholders, the Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding in the Company over a five-year period from 2015, or their respective date of appointment if later, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy on page 79.
The shareholding target for the Group Chief Executive is shares to the value of 200% of salary and for the other Executive Directors is 150% of salary.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors and their connected persons, and details of their outstanding LTIP interests, as at 31 December 2017 are shown below.
Shares held directly Other share interests Shareholding Outstanding value at Forfeitable LTIP awards Shareholding 31December shares held subject to target 2017 Beneficially under the performance 1 Executive Director %salary %salary owned EDBP conditions Dean Finch 200% 151% 151,798 91,838 512,439 Matthew Ashley 150% 156% 111,785 31,503 438,779 Chris Davies 150% 3% 3,000 247,199 1 The 31 December 2017 share price of 380.9p per share has been used for the purposes of this calculation and has been applied to the beneficially owned and the forfeitable shares held under the EDBP in arriving at the shareholding value as at 31 December 2017.
2 Chris Davies required shareholding level applies to the five-year period commencing from his date of appointment on 10 May 2017.
The Appendix on page 99 provides more information on all outstanding LTIP awards held by the Executive Directors.
94 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Non-Executive Directors interests Non-Executive Directors are not subject to the share ownership guidelines or a specific shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares and those of their connected persons as at 31 December 2017, all of which are held beneficially, are shown below: As at 31December Non-Executive Director 2017 Sir John Armitt CBE 6,000 Joaqun Ayuso 1 Jorge Cosmen 69,237,515 Matthew Crummack 2,696 Jane Kingston 2,100 Mike McKeon 5,000 Chris Muntwyler Lee Sander 1,000 Dr Ashley Steel 15,416 1 Jorge Cosmens holding includes shares held by European Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 103 in the list of substantial shareholders in the Company.
The Register of Directors interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors holdings in shares and options over shares in the Company.
The closing price of a Companys ordinary share at 31 December 2017 was 380.9 pence 2016: 353.7 pence and the range during the year ended 31 December 2017 was 334.7 pence to 381.1 pence per share.
Changes since year end There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2017 and the date of this report.
History of CEOs pay The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Group Chief Executive over the last nine years, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
2 During each of 2010 and 2011, the current Group Chief Executive did not have entitlement to any LTIP awards with attaching performance conditions whose final year of performance ended during that year.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 95 6.
Comparison of overall performance The two graphs below show a comparison of the Companys cumulative total shareholder return ie share price growth plus dividends paid and annual return against the FTSE 250 Index and a Bespoke Index comprising peer group companies over a 9-year and a 3-year period.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as the Company is a constituent of that Index and it is therefore considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for comparative purposes.
Shareholder returns: 9-year history National Express Group Annual return FTSE 250 Annual return Bespoke Index Annual return National Express Group Cumulative return FTSE 250 Cumulative return Bespoke Index Cumulative return 320 280 240 200 160 120 80 40 0 -40 31 12 2008 31 12 2009 31 12 2010 31 12 2011 31 12 2012 31 12 2013 31 12 2014 31 12 2015 31 12 2016 31 12 2017 Shareholder returns: 3-year history National Express Group Annual return FTSE 250 Annual return Bespoke Index Annual return National Express Group Cumulative return FTSE 250 Cumulative return Bespoke Index Cumulative return 80 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 31 12 2015 31 12 2016 31 12 2017 31 12 2014 The Group achieved a very strong performance in 2017 with revenue, profits and free cash flow up significantly on 2016, beating the budgeted profit before tax as adjusted by 13.3%.
This excellent result, underpinned by a strong and sustainable free cash flow, has merited the 10% increase in the full year dividend for the second year in a row.
In 2017, our vehicles travelled 1.1 billion kilometres.
We also carried a record 882 million passengers on a continuing operations basis, up 1.2% in the year, reflecting the strong focus in all our businesses on good service and value for money.
There was strong growth in both of our international divisions, with North America revenue and operating profit up 10.1% and 6.8% respectively on a constant currency basis.
ALSA delivered revenue growth of 3.6% and a profit increase of 4.4%, again on a constant currency basis.
The newly combined UK Division, comprising bus and coach, delivered a very impressive second half performance reversing a first half decline resulting in revenue growth of 0.6% and profit growth of 5.3%.
German Rail delivered big increases in constant currency revenue 20.4% and profit.
The Group completed nine acquisitions in the year: three in North America, including Cook DuPage Transportation which provided us with entry into the USs largest para-transit market Chicago, and six in ALSA, including three that build on our successful Swiss ski market entry and strengthen our presence in Geneva.
Altogether, 2017 was another sector leading financial performance.
96 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 7.
The context of pay in the National Express Group The following table sets out the change in certain elements of the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2016 to 2017 compared with the average percentage change for the UK employee population.
The Group Chief Executives remuneration, disclosed in the table below, has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus including any amount deferred on the basis used for determining the single figure.
The UK employee remuneration is based on the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of those UK employees who received taxable benefits and bonuses.
The Group uses the UK workforce as an appropriate comparator group for the average employee as this avoids complicated exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if we included employees in the Groups overseas operations in the calculation.
Average percentage increase decrease Comparator persons or group from 2016 to 2017 Taxable PerformanceBase salary benefits related bonus Group Chief Executive 4.4% 3.4% 18.8% UK employee remuneration 1.7% 14.8% 6.6% 8.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the total spend on pay in 2017 and 2016 compared with distributions made to shareholders: Increase from 2017 2016 2016 to 2017 Measure m m % Overall Group spend on pay including Directors 1,161.6 1,020.7 13.8% Profit distributed by way of dividend 64.7 58.8 10% 9.
Statement of implementation of current Directors Remuneration Policy in 2018 a Executive Directors base salaries The Committee determined that the base salary for the Group Chief Executive and each of the Executive Directors would be increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 January 2018, broadly in line with the UK general workforce increase.
In doing so, the Committee recognised the excellent financial and operating performance delivered by Dean Finch, supported by his executive team, in 2017.
This has resulted in significant shareholder value and a strong platform from which to build further growth in line with the Boards challenging strategy.
Accordingly, the annual base salaries of the Executive Directors in 2018 are: Base salary Executive Director gross Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 630,375 Chris Davies, Group Finance Director 358,750 Matt Ashley, President and CEO, North America 358,750 b Pensions The Group Chief Executive will continue to receive a 35% of salary pension allowance and each of the other Executive Directors a 25% of salary pension allowance.
c Annual bonus The annual bonus for the 2018 financial year will be structured and operate for Dean Finch and Chris Davies on the same basis as the arrangements in place during 2017 as set out on page 87.
However, for Matt Ashley, his financial bonus targets will be weighted as to 75% North America EBIT and 25% Group PBT and his non-financial bonus targets, including safety, will be wholly North American focused.
When setting the bonus targets for 2018, the Committee has taken into account: the Boards challenging three-year strategy to 2020 and the first-year expectations within that the Groups approved budget and operating plan for 2018 stock market consensus for 2018 the non-recurring items included in the 2017 results which will need replacing in 2018 increased pricing pressures and competition in the UK and North America generally.
Targets will be set on a basis consistent with accounting measures ie without reference to exceptional items.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 97 The Committee will set calibrated targets for the bonus measures and intends to disclose actual performance against these in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
As a matter of commercial sensitivity, the Committee has decided not to disclose bonus performance targets in advance although 18% 2017: 18% of the 25% non-financial bonus element will be based on safety objectives.
In anticipation of and subject to the approval of the new Directors Remuneration Policy to be put before shareholders at the AGM in May, it is proposed that the revised safety underpin to the annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors as set out on page 77 will apply for 2018. d Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards LTIP awards in 2018 are proposed to be granted in line with the normal annual award levels contained in the current Directors Remuneration Policy.
Accordingly, awards with attaching performance conditions will be made to the value of 200% of salary to the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary to the other Executive Directors.
The performance condition metrics, weightings and vesting levels for the 2018 awards will be as follows: Threshold 25% vesting EPS and TSR, Target Maximum Performance condition Weighting 0% vesting ROCE 50% vesting 100% vesting TSR vs. FTSE 250 Index 1 6 Median Upper Quintile 1 TSR vs. Bespoke Index 1 6 Equal to Index Index 10% pa EPS 1 3 31.5p 33.3p 36.3 ROCE 1 3 9% 10% 12% 1 Comprising three comparator companies, namely: FirstGroup plc, Stagecoach Group plc and Go-Ahead Group plc.
Performance for each element will be measured over the three-year financial period ending 31 December 2020 and awards will be subject to atwo-year holding period post vesting and malus and clawback for two years from the date of vesting, including post cessation of employment.
Dividend equivalent entitlements will attach to any vested shares over the vesting period and during the holding period while the option remains unexercised.
For TSR measures, straight-line vesting will occur between Threshold and Maximum levels of performance.
Non-Executive Directors fees With effect from 1 January 2018, and to ensure that the annual fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors reflect the current roles, responsibilities and market rates for the positions held, the Committee and, in the case of other Non-Executive Directors, the Board has determined that: the Chairmans fee including as Chair of the Nominations Committee would be increased by 6,000 pa the Non-Executive Directors base fee would be increased by 1,300 pa the Board Committee Chair fees would be increased by 1,000 pa the Senior Independent Directors fee would be increased by 1,000 pa.
Accordingly, the annual fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in 2018 are: Fees Role gross Chairman 246,000 Non-Executive Director base fee 52,800 Chair of Board Committee excluding Nominations 11,000 Senior Independent Director 8,500 In addition, a travel allowance of 4,000 will continue to be payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander as overseas based Directors in respect of each Board meeting or other Board related matters they attend outside their continent of residence.
98 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 11.
Historical results of voting on the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Policy The votes cast on the resolutions seeking approval in respect of the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM were as follows: Number % of votes % of votes of votes 1 Resolution For Against withheld To approve the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016 advisory vote only 85.07 14.2 87,867 The votes cast on the resolutions seeking approval in respect of the current Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM were as follows: Number % of votes % of votes of votes 1 Resolution For Against withheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy binding vote 98.91 1.09 16,293,308 1 A vote withheld is not a vote at law and is not counted in the calculation of votes For or Against.
Retained advisers to the Committee During the year, the Committee received remuneration and ancillary legal and governance advice from PwC, its external remuneration consultants.
Apart from some input received on benchmarking roles below Board level for pay review purposes, and advice received in relation to tax, internal audit support and deal delivery, PwC has no other connection with the Group.
PwC has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives from PwC is objective and independent.
For the financial year under review, PwC received fees of 139,250 in connection with its work for the Committee.
Dilution The Company has permitted new share dilution authorities reserved to it under the rules of its 2015 LTIP as previously approved by shareholders, which are in line with the Investment Associations guidelines.
However, given that the Companys funding strategy has been and continues to be to satisfy all outstanding share awards granted under that plan and its other incentive plans through the delivery of market purchased shares held in the Companys Employee Benefit Trust, as opposed to the issue and allotment of new shares, the Company has not to date used up any of its dilution authority under the 2015 LTIP.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 99 Appendix The table below sets out the share awards granted to Executive Directors under the rules of the Companys 2005 LTIP, as amended through to 2014 and the 2015 LTIP since 2015 which either vested during 2017 or which remain outstanding as at 31 December 2017.
2 Share price on exercise was 356.2357p.
3 Share price on exercise was 367.3368p.
4 Exercise price is 314.9p per share.
5 Exercise price is 274.3p per share.
6 Exercise price is 360.2p per share.
7 Exercise price is 366.1p per share.
8 All LTIP awards are granted in the form of nil-cost options save for LTIP approved CSOP awards which are granted as a market value share option with an exercise price per share as set out in the notes above.
LTIP approved CSOP awards are aligned with the requirements of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and can be exercised by way of set-off against any shares vesting under the corresponding LTIP award.
By order of the Board Jane Kingston Remuneration Committee Chair 1 March 2018
