68 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair Dear fellow Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
Ithas been another very successful year for the Group and a busy one for the Remuneration Committee.
We have assessed outcomes under Jane Kingston incentive plans, approved certain aspects of remuneration for two Committee Chair Executive Director changes that occurred, and have conducted afull review of the current Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Company is seeking shareholders approval to a new policy at the AGM in May.
Primary role To review and recommend to the Board the framework and policy for Aligning pay and performance in 2017 remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and other 2017 was a standout year for the Group, where our performance members of the Group Executive Committee, and for implementing again delivered record breaking results.
Our share price increased the policy.
by 8% ahead of sector competitors and a 10% increase in the final dividend is proposed.
The financial highlights table opposite shows The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and approved our strong performance compared to last year as we delivered in annually, are available on the Companys website at excess of plan on all key metrics.
In addition to this, the Executive www.
Directors made significant progress on a number of strategic projects with tangible results, most notably in relation to the Key responsibilities divestment of our UK rail franchise and the consequential restructuring of the UK business.
Determine the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors and Senior Management Group The Committee has undergone a robust and full assessment SMG members of performance, taking into account financial and non-financial Determine the Chairmans fees measures.
In addition, we considered in consultation with the Safety Monitor pay, benefits and employment conditions across the Group & Environment Committee the Groups performance in relation Oversee administration of the Companys share incentive plans to safety processes, procedures and outcomes for 2017 and judged Appoint independent remuneration consultants that the annual bonus underpin had been fully satisfied given the continuing year-on-year improvement delivered.
Particularly pleasing Activity highlights is our Fatalities Weighted Injuries Index FWI score per million miles Engaged with shareholders on the 2016 Annual Report on travelled which is now at an all-time low having fallen by 74% since Remuneration our Driving Out Harm programme was launched in 2010.
Reviewed and determined: salary levels for Executive Directors and SMG, and fees Consequently, the following outcomes were approved for the Chairman by the Committee: new remuneration package for Chris Davies and relocation annual bonuses of 95% of maximum for 2017, of which a portion package for Matt Ashley has been deferred into shares.
No discretion was used by the outturn vs. performance conditions of LTIP awards Committee in determining these bonuses: new Directors Remuneration Policy and consultation 96.7% of maximum vesting for the LTIP awards with a three-year with major shareholders performance period ended 31 December 2017.
These are due Set and reviewed outcome vs. targets of annual bonus plans to vest in March 2018: and Determined annual LTIP awards to Executive Directors and SMG 73.4% of maximum vesting for the legacy LTIP award made to Considered developments in executive pay and corporate governance theGroup Chief Executive with a five-year performance period ended 31 December 2017.
Membership, meetings and attendance Meetings Meetings Committee member Appointed held attended 1 Jane Kingston Chair 26.02.14 6 6 1 Lee Sander 01.06.11 6 6 1 Matthew Crummack 06.05.16 6 6 1 Independent Non-Executive Director.
Group Chief Executive : input and recommendations relating to strategy and the performance and remuneration of other Executive Other attendees by invitation and advice services provided: Directors and SMG Group Finance Director, Human Resources Director and Company  LLP PwC : independent remuneration Secretary : input and advice re financial performance, HR policies and ancillary legal and governance advice and practices, governance and administration.
Company Chairman : input and recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Do not attend or participate in discussions concerning their own performance or remuneration.
Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 69 The Committee considered alternative remuneration structures but concluded that the current one achieves our objectives and it Directors Remuneration Report therefore remains fit for purpose without the need for any significant This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in changes.
In particular, we can see that the current structure aligns accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies the executives interests with those of our shareholders over the and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 long term.
as amended Regulations, the Listing Rules and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code However, to ensure the policy continues to meet governance and consists of the following sections: guidelines and provides flexibility in dealing with certain scenarios and events which could occur during the intended three-year term of the Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair new policy, the Committee is proposing to make a few incremental Remuneration at a glance an overview of our changes to the way the policy is operated for Executives.
In line with remuneration strategy and the performance outcomes good practice, and before finalising the new policy, the Committee for the variable elements of remuneration consulted on these changes with major shareholders representing Summary of changes and recommended new Directors some 74% of our share register, and the main institutional proxy voting Remuneration Policy the policy is subject to shareholder agencies, at the end of last year early this year.
approval at the 2018 AGM and, if approved, will be effective immediately thereafter and be binding on the Company The proposed changes included: until the close of the 2021 AGM Annual Report on Remuneration this sets out details a reduction in the maximum pension contribution for new Executive of payments made to Directors in 2017 under the current Directors to no more than 25% of salary: remuneration policy.
The report is subject to an advisory revision of the safety underpin for the annual bonus and the vote by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
introduction of a similar safety underpin for the LTIP: and removal of the ability to use the Listing Rules to make exceptional LTIP awards, and the introduction of the flexibility to grant LTIP awards up to 200% of salary for all Executives in special circumstances.
Following the tragic accident in Chattanooga in late 2016, the Committee has continued to monitor ongoing investigations.
I am pleased to confirm that no new findings have arisen since February 2017 that would then, or indeed now, lead the Committee to apply anything other than the same judgement or reach anything other thanthe same decision in respect of last years bonus payments to the Executives.
However, we have reviewed and revised the safety underpin wording in the annual bonus as part of this years policy review.
In addition, asignificant and increased portion of the Our recommended new Directors non-financial element of thebonus 18% out of 25% was devoted to Remuneration Policy is aligned with safety metrics and the delivery of related key plans and investments for 2017.
This weighting level will be maintained in 2018. our strategic priorities and targeted Overall, the Committee believes that the outcomes of the bonus and to incentivise and reward the LTIP fully reflect the strong underlying performance of the business as long-term success of the Group.
well as the strong results for shareholders delivered over the last five years which include a Total Shareholder Return of 134% and basic statutory EPS growth of 118%.
Directors Remuneration Policy review Following a number of substantial changes made to executive remuneration in 2015, our current policy was approved by 2017 financial performance highlights shareholders with an overwhelming 99% vote of support at that years AGM.
Since then, we have successfully used the policy to reward and Group revenue 2.32 billion, up 10.9% retain a high-quality executive team, under the leadership of Dean Normalised profit before tax 200m, up 18.6% Finch, which has and is continuing to deliver record performance as it executes on an ambitious strategy.
Statutory profit after tax 128.4m, up 11.7% The Committees objective in approaching this years policy review Free cash flow 146.4m, up 5.6% has been to ensure that the remuneration structure continues to support our strategy, incentivise our executive team to achieve Normalised basic earnings per share 29.1p, up 10.6% stretching targets, and to balance this against the need to be sensitive to shareholder requirements and corporate governance best practice.
70 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair continued The changes were very well received by shareholders and in The Committee has recently completed its annual review of salary response to our engagement with them, the Committee also made and can confirm that for 2018 the base salary increase for each of the following further amendments to those originally proposed: theExecutive Directors will be 2.5%, in line with that of the wider UK workforce.
reduction in the threshold level of LTIP vesting from 30% to 25% for the TSR and EPS elements: There will be no change to the award opportunity for bonus or LTIP extension of the application of malus and clawback to the whole of arrangements in 2018.
The structure and performance conditions will the annual bonus award, not just the deferred share element: and be operated as per the current policy and the 2017 plans, as detailed reduction in the Group Chief Executives annual pension allowance in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
from 35% to 30% of salary in three equal tranches commencing from 2019.
Committee effectiveness The Committees effectiveness and activities formed part of the A summary of all the key changes proposed to the current policy is external review of Board effectiveness performed in the year.
Details set out in the table on page 73 and the proposed new policy is set of this review are provided on pages 50 and 51.
Overall, the out in full on pages 74 to 84.
Committee continued to operate effectively and to a high standard having delivered on a significant agenda during the year.
The Committee is confident that the current policy remains fit for purpose, subject to the incremental changes being proposed, Looking forward and fundamental in helping us achieve continued strong business We will continue to engage with shareholders and review corporate performance.
The new policy is therefore recommended to governance best practice as it develops.
In that regard, the shareholders for approval at the AGM in May.
Committee acknowledges that a new corporate governance code isin preparation and, together with the whole Board, will look to Executive team changes pro-actively respond to developments arising from this as part of The number of Executive Directors increased and the team its2018 agenda.
strengthened during the year by the appointment of Chris Davies as Group Finance Director in June and the appointment of Matt Ashley I hope that you find the information contained in this report helpful, the former Group Finance Director to the role of President and thoughtful and clear.
I welcome any feedback from shareholders and CEO of our North America business in September 2017.
Chris was look forward to answering any questions at the AGM when we will be appointed on the same remuneration package, terms and conditions asking shareholders to approve our new policy and the Annual Report as his predessor and Matt moved toChicago with no changes to on Remuneration.
Full details of their remuneration and the relocation assistance provided to Matt are setout on pages 85 and 86.
2018 remuneration and the wider pay environment I continue to be encouraged by managements commitment to invest in staff at all levels and our commitment to always meet or exceed Jane Kingston national minimum standards of employment in all of our business Remuneration Committee Chair areas offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each 1 March 2018 labour market in which we operate.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 71 Remuneration at a glance Introduction In this section, we highlight: the linkage between our strategic initiatives and the various elements of remuneration being used to drive and incentivise their achievement: and the annual bonus and LTIP targets for performance periods ended 31 December 2017, the Companys performance against each of them, and the resulting bonus payouts and LTIP vesting levels as a proportion of the maximum opportunity for the Executive Directors in 2017.
More details can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 85 to 99.
Remuneration link to strategy Our focus is to deliver long-term success for the business and shareholders and we seek to achieve this through various strategic initiatives.
These are set out below together with the corresponding element of remuneration targeted to drive and incentivise their achievement.
Strategic initiatives Remuneration element Revenue growth Normalised profit before tax target in the annual bonus plan EPS target attaching to LTIP awards Cost efficiency and better margins ROCE and TSR targets attaching to LTIP awards Operational excellence safety, customers, people, community Non-financial goals in the annual bonus plan Superior cash and returns Free cash flow target in the annual bonus plan ROCE and TSR targets attaching to LTIP awards Creating new business opportunities Non-financial goals in the annual bonus plan A minimum shareholding requirement of 200% of salary exists for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
This aligns their interests with those of shareholders by focusing them on the execution of the business strategy and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Principles of remuneration Our current Directors Remuneration Policy is based on the following broad principles set by the Committee: provide a competitive remuneration package to attract and retain quality individuals: align remuneration to drive the overall objectives of the business: align the interests of management with the interests of shareholders: and provide the foundation for overall reward and remuneration beyond the specific roles falling within the direct remit of the Committee.
A new Directors Remuneration Policy is being recommended to shareholders at this years AGM see page 74.
Targets, outturns and payouts for 2017 Annual bonus Measure Threshold Target Maximum Actual 1 Normalised PBT 158.9m 176.6m 194.3m 200.0m 2 Free cash flow 103.5m 115.0m 126.5m 146.4m 1 The original normalised PBT Target was set at 180.1m.
This was adjusted to 176.6m to reflect foreign exchange rate movements, the exit from UK rail and growth capital profit.
The Maximum and Threshold levels have also been adjusted to reflect their original 10% linkage to Target.
2 The original free cash flow target was 117.1m.
This was adjusted to 115.0m to reflect foreign exchange rate movements and growth capital profit.
TheMaximum and Threshold levels have also been adjusted to reflect their original 10% linkage to Target.
72 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration at a glance continued Annual bonus continued Bonus earned as % of salary Bonus Bonus Total bonus maximum earned as % earned as opportunity as Normalised Free Non-financial of maximum 1 Executive Directors % of salary PBT cash flow measures % of salary opportunity Dean Finch Group Chief Executive 200% 100% 50% 40% 190% 95% Chris Davies 2 Group Finance Director 150% 75% 37.5% 30% 142.5% 95% Matt Ashley President and CEO, North America 150% 75% 37.5% 30% 142.5% 95% 1 Part of the bonus earned is subject to a one-year deferral in the form of forfeitable shares.
2 Pro-rated to reflect service during the year as an Executive Director from 10 May 2017.
Long-term incentives whose performance period ended on 31 December 2017 2013 5-year LTIP award Dean Finch only Vesting as % Measures Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Actual of maximum Median Upper Upper Quintile th TSR vs. selected Travel & Leisure comparator group 1 2 Median Quintile Rank 7 of 15 46.7% 1 EPS 1 2 23.4p 28.3p 30.0p 100% Total vesting 73.4% 1 This has been adjusted from 29.1p to reflect foreign exchange rate movements, the exit from UK rail and growth capital profit.
1 2015 3-year LTIP awards Dean Finch and Matt Ashley 2017 1-year LTIP Recruitment Incentive Award Chris Davies only Vesting as % Measures Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Actual of maximum Median Upper Upper Quintile th TSR vs. FTSE 250 Index 1 6 Median Quintile Rank 59 of 221 85.2% Equal Index Index TSR vs. Bespoke Index 1 6 to Index 10% pa 10% pa 100% 2 EPS 1 3 24.8p 26.3p 28.6p 30.0p 100% ROCE 1 3 9% 10% 12% 11.9% 97.5% Total vesting 96.7% 1 Vested share awards are subject to a two-year holding period.
2 This has been adjusted from 29.1p to reflect foreign exchange rate movements, the exit from UK rail and growth capital profit.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 73 Summary of the key changes proposed to thecurrentDirectors Remuneration Policy A summary of the key changes proposed to the current Directors Remuneration Policy, approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, is set out below and relates only to the operation of the executive remuneration structure.
These are the changes on which the Company consulted with its major shareholders.
Further details regarding the operation of the current policy in 2017 can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 85 to 99.
Element Proposed change Rationale for change Base salary clarification Changes to clarify operation of the circumstances To provide flexibility in cases of material changes inwhich above employee salary increases or above inresponsibility or below-market pay, or to reward market median salary may be necessary.
significant experience and proven performance.
Annual bonus malus and clawback Extension of malus and clawback to apply to the To normalise the application of malus and clawback whole of the bonus award, not just the deferred inline with best practice.
Annual bonus underpin Revision of safety underpin wording for To ensure that the Committee has the ability 2018 onwards.
to make appropriate downward adjustments to bonus and LTIP vesting outcomes in LTIP underpin Introduction of safety underpin to future LTIP awards.
LTIP grant size Introduction of the ability to grant annual LTIP awards To provide for future developments and to to all Executives up to 200% of salary currently, the address retention, incentive and succession maximum is 150% of salary for Executives, other planning matters over the expected three-year thanthe Group Chief Executive who is already entitled term of the policy.
to a 200% of salary maximum annual award.
LTIP threshold vesting level Reduce the threshold level of LTIP vesting from 30% To normalise the threshold level of vesting in line to 25% of maximum for TSR and EPS elements.
with best practice and to incentivise a focus on outperformance.
LTIP recruitment retention awards Removal of the ability to make use of the Listing Rules To ensure that all future LTIP awards are made provision to make exceptional awards in retention or under theapproved remuneration policy in line recruitment scenarios.
Pension new Executive Directors Reduction in the maximum annual pension To normalise pension provision for all Executive allowance for new Executives to no more than Directors overtime.
Pension Group Chief Executive Reduction in the annual pension allowance from To move this specific legacy pension arrangement 35% to 30% of base salary in three equal tranches more into line with current market practice.
