Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 75 Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder Following my appointment to the position of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in September 2017, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
Remuneration review and consultation with majorshareholders Richard Burrows After four years of strong financial progress and strategic execution, Chairman of the above sector growth, and significant reshaping of the business, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee decided to undertake a review of the current executive remuneration framework applying to the Executive Directors in order to ensure the arrangements continue to be: This report is structured as follows: consistent with the delivery of strategic business priorities: aligned with the wider senior management and colleague population, 75 Annual statement and with the interests of shareholders: An overview from our Remuneration Committee Chairman, as straightforward and easy to understand as practicable: outlining key developments and decisions made during 2017. appropriately reflective of current practice: and 77 Remuneration at a glance market competitive, to attract and retain talent at an appropriate level.
Key details on performance in 2017 and the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Committee, in undertaking this review, considered 79 Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy the positive performance of the executive management and the Full details of the proposed Directors Remuneration criticality of ensuring their retention, the current strong and clear Policy which will be the subject of a binding shareholder alignment of the Executive Directors remuneration with that of vote at the May 2018 AGM.
shareholders and other senior managers through the Group 87 Directors Annual Remuneration Report Introduction Management Bonus Scheme GMBS and the Performance Share Plan Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities PSP, and the effectiveness of the current performance measures in during 2017. the GMBS and PSP.
With this in mind the Remuneration Committee determined that, whilst the current Directors Remuneration Policy met 89 Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 the majority of the above criteria, there was still some significant Details of Directors remuneration received during 2017. retention risk due to a lack of opportunity within the policy, and an 97 Directors Annual Remuneration Report absence of bonus deferral and a holding period, which is now more Looking forward 2018 common practice.
An explanation of how we plan to implement the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy during 2018 subject to While ever mindful of the broader climate surrounding executive shareholder approval.
remuneration and corporate governance in the UK, the Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate to consult with key shareholders and several leading proxy agencies over proposals to address these issues.
The proposals are designed to maintain the principles of the Highlights of 2017 overall framework approved by shareholders in 2016, while making some changes to enhance the retention effect of the annual bonus and Directors Remuneration Policy review and proposal.
long-term incentive scheme crucial to the retention of the Executive Consultation with key investors and proxy agencies.
Directors, as well as aligning the variable pay opportunity of the Induction of new members of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Directors with their peers and with shareholder interests.
Areas of focus for 2018 The Remuneration Committee and I are pleased to report that the Succession planning for new Remuneration Committee proposals received widespread support throughout the consultation Chairman in December.
process with investors representing almost 50% of the shareholder Introduction of new Directors Remuneration Policy, further register, as well as from the proxy agencies.
These proposals have increasing alignment of remuneration arrangements for been discussed with the Board, which supports the changes that are executives with shareholder interests.
It is on this basis that the proposals are now put forward for shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 76 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed amendments to the Directors Remuneration Policy Key decisions in 2017 Full details of the proposed changes are set out in the table on page 79, The business had a successful year in 2017, seeing a strong increase with the key changes detailed below: in shareholder value, successful execution of key strategic initiatives such as the creation of the joint ventures with Haniel in Europe and PCIin India, as well as good progress on the revenue and profit growth Annual bonus scheme targets.
This is described in more detail in the Strategic Report.
It was Annual bonus opportunity will be increased from 100% to 150% also heartening to receive recognition in the Institute of Directors of salary for the Executive Directors, before the application of 2017 Good Governance Index, where we received one of the highest the individual performance modifier.
This bonus opportunity will scoresin the report for the quality of the Companys Remuneration and be based on corporate financial measures only, which are likely Reward arrangements.
to include revenue, cash and profit.
The 2017 annual bonus had two performance gateways based on profit The individual performance modifier, which is already a feature and cash generation, both of which were surpassed.
The level of bonus of the annual bonus and contains financial and non-financial achievement was determined by Ongoing Operating Profit and Ongoing measures, will continue to have the effect of increasing the Revenue performance, which was then overlaid with an individual bonus payout for corporate financial performance by up to 25%, performance modifier.
As outlined elsewhere in the Annual Report, capped at an overall maximum of 180% of salary currently 120% financial performance during 2017 in the form of revenue, profit and cash of salary, or decreasing it to a minimum of zero.
flow performance has shown consistent progress.
The Remuneration The Executive Directors will defer 40% of annual bonus Committee reviewed the financial performance in 2017 against the beginning with bonus earned in relation to 2018 performance annual bonus targets and determined that the Chief Executive, Andy into a new Deferred Bonus Plan, with a minimum deferral period Ransom, and the Chief Financial Officer, Jeremy Townsend, should both of three years.
receive a bonus of 76.45% of base salary.
In respect of the individual Performance Share Plan PSP performance modifier, Andy Ransom was awarded a performance rating Annual share awards under the PSP will be increased from of 4 taking his overall bonus to 84.10% of salary, and Jeremy Townsend 200% to 250% of salary for the Chief Executive.
Annual share was awarded a performance rating of 3, resulting in his overall bonus awards for the Chief Financial Officer will remain at 200% of remaining at 76.45% of salary.
This PSP limit of 250% and 200% of salary for the Chief During 2017, the 2014 PSP award, measured two-thirds using TSR Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively may be measured over a three-year period ending 30 March 2017 and one-third increased to 300% of salary versus 250% under the current using EPS measured over three financial years to 31 December 2016, policy in exceptional circumstances as determined by the was tested and resulted in 100% of the award vesting, subject to the Remuneration Committee.
To further support shareholder alignment, a two-year holding period will apply to any awards granted in or after 2018.
Performance of the 2015 PSP will be measured one-third using EPS measured over three financial years to 31 December 2017 and two-thirds Shareholding guidelines relative TSR measured over a three-year period ending 29 March 2018.
The Executive Directors shareholding guidelines will increase Based on the Companys performance for the period in respect of the 2015 from 200% to 300% of annual base salary for the Chief PSP award, vesting is anticipated to be at 94.97%.
The 2015 PSP award is Executive and from 150% to 200% of annual base salary for the based on the actual EPS result as at 31 December 2017 and an estimated Chief Financial Officer.
This will ensure the Executive Directors TSR result based on average performance in the fourth quarter of 2017. have an increased financial stake in the business, which further More detail is set out on page 92. aligns them with shareholders interests.
The chart on the following page illustrates the 2017 single figure total for Pensions remuneration for each of the Executive Directors.
The 2016 single figure The current Executive Directors will retain their current pension total has been restated from last year to reflect the actual value of the arrangements.
Any future Executive Directors appointed 2014 PSP award following its vesting in March 2017. into the role will be eligible for a pension contribution or cash equivalent of 15% of salary, which reflects the pension Key decisions in 2018 arrangements for other senior executives.
The only exception With effect from 1 January 2018, Andy Ransoms salary was increased to this would be if an internal candidate was promoted to the by 2% to 750,276 and Jeremy Townsends salary was increased by 2% Board with a pension entitlement exceeding 15% of salary: in to 482,316.
The increases received by the Executive Directors were in this situation the legacy term would be honoured.
line with the overall annual cost of labour increase, which was set at 2% for the UK.
As part of our consultation, we considered the effectiveness of I would like to thank both my predecessors as Chairman of the the performance metrics in the current PSP namely relative total Remuneration Committee, Alan Giles until May 2017 and Chris shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS in the ratio Geoghegan from May to September 2017 for their contribution of two thirds TSR and one third EPS.
The Remuneration Committee to the work of the Remuneration Committee.
considered a number of options including: adjustment to the relative I hope that you will find the information in this report clearly explains proportions of the current metrics: their potential replacement: and the remuneration approach taken by the Company and enables you the introduction of new or additional metrics including, for example, to understand how it links to our strategic business priorities and the areturns-based measure or a free cash flow conversion metric.
delivery of our business plan.
Whilethere is a range of external opinion across the investor community on the optimal measures for inclusion in long-term incentive As always, I welcome any comments you may have and look forward arrangements, the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the toseeing shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
current metrics continue to operate successfully in driving business Yours faithfully performance, aligning the executive with shareholders interests and areboth demanding on a long-term basis and fully aligned with operational priorities.
The Remuneration Committee also felt they continue to support the overall remuneration strategy.
Richard Burrows Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 77 Remuneration at a glance Executive Director total remuneration How did we perform during 2017?
Andy 2017 2016 Ransom Ongoing Operating Profit outcome 100.29% 4.37m 5.58m Ongoing Revenue outcome 1 103.22% Free Cash Flow Total fixed pay 22% Total fixed pay 17% Bonus 14% Bonus 11% 175.8m PSP 64% PSP 72% Exceeded gateway of 130m Total shareholder return TSR Jeremy 2017 2016 Townsend 159.3% increase over three years.
TSR is anticipated to finish in the upper quartile allowing this element of the 2015 2.38m 2.90m PSP to vest in full.
Earnings per share EPS 16.9% Total fixed pay 24% Total fixed pay 19% EPS was just below maximum allowing Bonus 15% Bonus 12% 84.9% ofthis element of the 2015 PSP PSP 61% PSP 69% to vest.
How was performance reflected Key in our ExecutiveDirectors pay?
Fixed pay Andy Ransom Jeremy Townsend Base salary 2017 2017 Benefits Pension 4 3 Performance rating Bonus 2 110% 100% Individual performance modifier IPM for 2017 Performance Share Plan 000 000 735.6 472.9 Base salary 22.1 16.5 Benefits Pension 183.9 70.9 618.6 361.5 Annual bonus after application of IPM 1.
After application of Ongoing Revenue co-efficient 2,807.6 1,462.9 Performance Share Plan see page 89.
Further information on the IPM can be found on page 89.
Total 4,367.8 2,384.7 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 78 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration at a glance Proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy Executive Directors Main features of current policy Proposed policy change Increases awarded are normally broadly in line with those awarded No change.
Base salary elsewhere in the business.
Adjustments to this may be made where theRemuneration Committee deems it appropriate.
Benefits provided at a rate commensurate with the market and include No change.
Benefits life assurance, car or car allowance, family healthcare, permanent health insurance and relocation benefits.
Executive Directors may contribute to a defined contribution Maximum 15% of annual base salary or cash equivalent for new Pension arrangement or receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension.
Contributions for the existing Executive Directors are 25% of salary for the Chief Executive and 15% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Bonus opportunity of 100% of base annual salary before the Increase in bonus opportunity from 100% to 150% of salary Bonus applicationof the individual performance modifier.
before the application of the individual performance modifier.
Maximum opportunity of 120% of base annual salary after the Increase in maximum opportunity from 120% to 180% after the application of the individual performance modifier.
application of the individual performance modifier.
Measured against Ongoing Operating Profit, Ongoing Revenue Introduction of deferral of 40% of bonus into shares with a andFree Cash Flow.
Clawback and malus provisions apply.
No change to performance metrics.
200% of annual base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Increase from 200% to 250% of annual base salary for the Chief Performance FinancialOfficer.
It remains at 200% for the Chief Financial Officer.
SharePlan Maximum award of 250% in exceptional circumstances.
The maximum award can be increased to 300% of annual base salary in exceptional circumstances.
Measured against two-thirds TSR and one-third EPS.
Introduction of a two-year holding period for Executive Directors Clawback and malus provisions apply.
for any awards granted in or after 2018.
200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary Shareholding Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Directors within five forthe Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Directors guidelines yearsof appointment.
within five years of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors Main features of current policy Proposed policy change Fees reviewed at appropriate intervals.
Non-Executive Directors including Comprise basic fee plus additional fee for extra responsibility forBoardCommittee Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
Chairman In addition, the Chairman is entitled to the use of a car and driver.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 79 Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the Remuneration Report sets out our proposed Directors To ensure that total remuneration is highly .
Remuneration Policy and has been prepared in accordance with To balance performance-related pay between the achievement The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and of financial performance objectives and delivering sustainable Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. performance, creating a clear connection between performance and reward and providing a focus on sustained improvements in The policy has been developed taking into account the UK Corporate profitability and returns.
Governance Code and the views of our major shareholders.
The To provide a substantial proportion of performance-linked pay policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM to in shares allowing senior management to build a significant be held on 9 May 2018 and, subject to shareholder approval, will take shareholding in the business and, therefore, aligning management formal effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
with shareholders interests and the Groups performance, without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The proposed policy is broadly consistent with the current Directors Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders Consideration of shareholders views at the 2016 AGM.
Key areas of difference between the current and The Company is committed to maintaining good communications proposed policies are set out on page 78.
The current Directors with investors.
The Remuneration Committee considers the AGM to Remuneration Policy is available to view on the Companys website be an opportunity to meet and communicate with investors, giving atrentokil-initial.
shareholders the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report have.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee will seek to engage isnot subject to audit.
directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any further material changes be proposed to the Remuneration Policy.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the arrangements are in the In formulating this proposed Remuneration Policy, letters containing best interests of both the Company and its shareholders, by taking our draft proposals were sent to all our top shareholders, representing intoaccount the following general principles: almost 50% of the shareholder register, as well as to leading proxy agencies.
Meetings were offered and were held with the majority of those To ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in contacted, who were supportive of the rationale as well as the changes designso that they are valued by participants.
Key elements of policy Executive Directors Base salary Purpose link Performance measures to strategy Operation Levels of payout and period To attract and retain Cash salaries are normally reviewed annually with Salary policy is to set base salary at an The payment of salary is not executives of the effect from 1 January.
Salaries are set taking into account: appropriate level taking into account the dependent on achieving calibre required factors described under the Operation performance targets although market data from both Willis Towers Watson and to implement our column and salary increases are considered individual performance is taken Deloitte or other appropriate data providers for strategy.
into account when setting salary a cross-section of companies of a similar size and levels and determining any complexity at the time of review: While there is no maximum salary level, the salary increases.
scope and responsibilities of the role: Remuneration Committee would normally external economic environment: expect percentage pay increases for the individual skills and experience: Executive Directors to be broadly in line with contribution to overall business performance: and other colleagues in relevant regions.
However, pay conditions for other colleagues based in the higher increases may be awarded in certain UK and other regions which are considered by the circumstances, where the Remuneration Remuneration Committee to be relevant for that Committee considers this appropriate, executive.
such as: where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical market salary to allow for growth in the role, then larger increases may be awarded in following years to move salary positioning closer to typical market levels as the executive grows in experience: where the Executive Director has been promoted or has had a change in responsibilities, salary increases in excess of the above level may be awarded: or where the positioning of an Executive Directors salary has fallen significantly behind market practice.
In exceptional circumstances, where a Non-Executive Director temporarily takes upan executive position, salary increases for the Non-Executive Director may be awarded as appropriate.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 80 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy Key elements of policy Executive Directors Benefits Purpose link Performance measures to strategy Operation Levels of payout and period To attract and retain Benefits are determined taking into account market Levels of benefits are set in line with market None.
executives of the practice, the level of benefits provided throughout the practice.
The level of benefits provided varies calibre required Group and individual circumstances.
The main benefits year on year depending on the cost of the to implement for Executive Directors are: provision of benefits to the Company and ourstrategy.
therefore it is not meaningful to identify a life assurance: maximum level of benefits.
car or car allowance: family healthcare permanent health insurance: and relocation benefits in the event that an executive were required to relocate to undertake their role, the Remuneration Committee may provide an additional appropriate level of benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances.
Such benefits may be one-off or ongoing in nature.
Should an Executive Director be appointed in a country other than the UK, benefits appropriate to that market would be considered.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to change the benefits provided including offering additional benefits in line with market practice and HMRC guidance on the definition of taxable benefits.
This may include the provision of a car and a driver for the Chief Executive and any applicable tax thereon and offering participation in any future allemployee share plan offered.
Pensions Purpose link Performance measures to strategy Operation Levels of payout and period To attract and retain Executive Director pension arrangements are by way For any future Executive Director hires the None.
executives of the ofa defined contribution arrangement or through a cash maximum contribution will be 15% of base calibre required alternative of a similar value or a combination of the two.
The only exception to this would to implement be if an internal candidate was promoted The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to ourstrategy.
to the board with a pension entitlement operate different pension arrangements where new exceeding 15% of salary: in this situation To facilitate Executive Directors are appointed to reflect individual thelegacy arrangement would be honoured.
executives planning circumstances, market practice or Company strategy.
The contributions for the existing Executive for retirement.
Directors are 25% of salary for the Chief Executive and 15% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 81 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy Key elements of policy Executive Directors Annual bonus Purpose link Performance measures to strategy Operation Levels of payout and period Recognise and reward The annual bonus is paid each year after the Remuneration Bonus payouts start to accrue at a level of up The annual bonus is based on for stretching business Committee has reviewed performance against targets, to 20% of base salary for meeting threshold corporate financial measures performance against which are set around the beginning of each year for levels of performance, with an on-target including profit, revenue and annual financial, each Executive Director, taking into consideration the bonus opportunity of 75% of base salary and a cash.
The bonus can be further strategic, operational underlying performance of the business.
maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of base enhanced through the individual and individual goals salary before the application of the individual performance modifier which Normally no more than 60% of any bonus is paid in that contribute performance modifier.
contains financial and noncashwith the balance deferred in shares.
The An individual performance modifier, based performance.
Remuneration Committee Deferred shares vest after a period of three years with on individual performance as measured reserves the right to add key nofurther performance conditions.
To attract and retain by the Companys performance and strategic performance targets executives of the development review process, may also where appropriate.
Performance The exercise period for awards in the form of nilcalibre required increase or decrease the opportunity stated is tested over a one-year cost options extends from the date of vesting to the to implement above to recognise individual contribution performance period.
tenth anniversary of the award being made.
If nil-cost our strategy and to business performance.
The individual options remain exercisable at the tenth anniversary drive business performance modifier can increase the payout The Remuneration Committee of grant thenthey will be exercised automatically on a performance.
to a maximum of 180% of base salary, or reserves the right to change participants behalf.
the measures in future years to The deferral of an ensure alignment with business The Remuneration Committee may reduce bonus element of the annual Vested deferred share awards may include strategy and shareholder payments in respect of the current year or future years bonus into shares dividend equivalents in cash or shares that interests, subject to a minimum potentially to nil in the event of: provides alignment accrue by reference to the period between of 50% of measures being a material misstatement of the Companys audited with shareholders grant date and vest or exercise date.
results for the current year or prior years: long-term interests serious reputational damage or loss to the Group following the as a result of an individuals serious misconduct: or successful delivery in other circumstances where the Remuneration ofshort-term targets.
Committee, in its discretion, considers that this treatment is appropriate.
A clawback provision exists to give the Remuneration Committee, in the same circumstances to malus, the ability to recover sums already paid for up to two years after bonus determination, or vesting date for deferred shares.
Deferred shares may be adjusted in accordance with the rules in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or similar event that materially affects the price of shares.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 82 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy Key elements of policy Executive Directors Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose link Performance measures to strategy Operation Levels of payout and period To motivate and Awards are made over shares normally in the form of The maximum regular annual award will be Awards are normally incentivise delivery nil-cost options or conditional shares with a face value 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive subject to the following two ofstretching business set by reference to a multiple of base salary.
and 200% of base salary for the Chief performance measures weighted performance over Financial Officer and any other Executive two-thirds and one-third Award levels and performance conditions are set to the long term and to Directors.
25% of the award shall vest for respectively: support the businesss long-term goals and seek to create alignment with meeting threshold levels of performance.
relative total shareholder reflect market practice and shareholder guidance.
growth in value for return TSR performance: and This limit of 250% and 200% of base salary shareholders.
the achievement of earnings Award levels are generally set at a market competitive for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial per share EPS targets.
level, relative to companies of comparable size and To act as a retention Officer and any other Executive Directors complexity.
tool for Executive respectively may be increased to 300% of For any particular award, the Directors.
base salary in exceptional circumstances as A malus provision exists to give the Remuneration Remuneration Committee determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Committee the ability to scale back awards that have shall retain discretion to notyet vested potentially to nil in the event of: adjust the weightings of these Vested PSP awards may include dividend two measures or to include a material misstatement of the Companys audited equivalents in cash or shares that accrue additional or alternative results: byreference to the period between grant performance measure s aligned serious reputational damage or loss to the Group dateand vest or exercise date.
asaresult of an individuals serious misconduct: or These limits are in the proposed in other circumstances where the Remuneration Performance conditions are amendmentsto the 2016 PSP Rules Committee considers that this treatment is normally measured over a which willbe submitted for approval by appropriate.
shareholders at the May 2018 AGM.
A clawback provision exists to give the Remuneration If events happen which cause Committee, in the same circumstances as malus, the the Remuneration Committee ability to recover sums already paid for up to five years to consider that a from the grant date.
performance condition would not, without alteration, achieve its The Remuneration Committee will usually assess the original purpose, it may amend achievement of the relevant performance conditions that performance condition and underlying performance after the three-year provided that the amended performance period.
Thereafter, a two-year holding performance condition is period normally applies.
The ownership of the shares materially no less challenging is not delivered to the participants until the end of the than it would have been had the holding period when the award vests.
Awards may be event not occurred.
The exercise period for awards in the form of nil-cost options extends from the date of vesting to the tenth anniversary of the award being made.
If nil cost options remain exercisable at the tenth anniversary ofgrant then they will be exercised automatically on a participants behalf.
Awards may be adjusted in accordance with the rules in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or similar event that materially affects the price of shares.
Shareholding guidelines Purpose link Performance measures to strategy Operation Levels of payout and period Encourages greater Executive Directors are expected to achieve Chief Executive: 300% of salary.
N A. levels of shareholding and maintain a holding of the Companys shares Chief Financial Officer and other and aligns employees at least equal to a significant proportion of their Executive Directors: 200% of salary interests with those respective salary.
Measures and targets All the performance measures selected support the delivery of short and long-term financial performance of the business and shareholder value creation.
Targets are set each year based on stretching internal budgets and achieving or exceeding these targets will both return value to shareholders and reward the executive team for delivery.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed annually to focus on delivery of key financial targets for the forthcoming year as well as key strategic or operational goals relevant to the individual.
Over the long term, performance measures are focused on generating returns to shareholders through the relative TSR measure and through a focus on improving earnings.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 83 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy All colleague remuneration policy Illustration of proposed Directors Remuneration Policy During 2017 the Company had an average of 36,036 colleagues for 2018 based in over 70 countries 2016: 32,150 colleagues based in over The charts below provide an illustration of what could be received by 66 countries.
Our broad remuneration policy reflects the diversity of each of the Executive Directors in 2018.
These charts are illustrative cultures, legislative environments, employment markets and the types as the actual value that will be received will depend on business and seniority of roles that this geographic spread provides.
We structure performance in 2018 for the bonus and in the three-year period to our colleague reward to enable us to recruit and retain the right people 2020 21 for the PSP, as well as share price performance to the date doing the right job for our customers.
of vesting for the deferred share element of the annual bonus and for the PSP.
The Remuneration Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the senior remuneration policy and has regard to its impact and compatibility with remuneration policies in the wider workforce.
Chief Executive Andy Ransom The Group HR Director advises the Remuneration Committee of the 100% Fixed approach which will be adopted with the forthcoming UK pay review and 959,934 the Remuneration Committee then considers the Executive Directors pay in line with these arrangements.
7% 62% 31% Threshold 1,541,398 The Group HR Director consults on all Executive Director bonuses and advises the Remuneration Committee on how, and the extent to which, 39 % 23% 38% Target they can be cascaded throughout the Company.
The Remuneration 2,460,486 Committee also reviews and approves any Performance Share Plan 24% 28% 47% Maximum awards made to Executive Directors and members of the Executive 3,961,038 Leadership Team prior to their grant.
45% 23% 32% Maximum While our colleagues are not currently formally consulted on Executive 4,186,121 Director pay, our employee opinion survey Your Voice Counts asks colleagues about the fairness and reasonableness of employee pay and 0m 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m 3.5m 4.0m 4.5m benefits.
Any comments made through this survey are reviewed and considered.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that it needs an understanding of the broader remuneration of colleagues when making Chief Financial O cer Jeremy Townsend decisions on Executive Director pay.
The Remuneration Committee 100% reviews pay and conditions for all colleagues based in the UK annually, Fixed 571,156 and has high level insight into the outcomes of annual bonuses.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving all PSP awards 65% 8% 27% Threshold across the Group.
884,662 A broad population of management colleagues are invited to join the 40% 26% 34% Target annual bonus plan called the Group Management Bonus Scheme 1,415,209 GMBS.
The performance measures for GMBS are identical to those laid out in the policy table above, so there is full alignment between the 25% 32% 43% Maximum 2,259,262 Executive Directors and senior management.
24% 36% 40% The senior management population are eligible to participate in the PSP, Maximum 2,403,957 wherever practicable under local legislation in the country where they are resident, and annually around 600 are invited to join the plan.
The 0m 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m 3.5m 4.0m 4.5m measures for the Executive Leadership Team and senior colleagues will remain aligned with those of the Executive Directors, to support focus Key on key strategic targets.
Beyond this, the plan structure may be varied Fixed pay within the rules to support the retention of this population.
Includes all elements of fixed remuneration: base salary effective 1 January 2018, as shown in the table on page 97: pension: and benefits using the same values as shown in the single total figure table on page 89.
Annual bonus including Deferred Bonus Plan Represents the potential value of the annual bonus for 2018.
40% of any bonus would be deferred into shares for three years and this is included in the value shown.
No share price growth is assumed.
Performance Share Plan PSP Represents the potential value of the PSP to be awarded in 2018, which would vest in 2021 subject to performance against the targets disclosed on page 98.
Awards would be held for a further two years.
Our remuneration arrangements are designed so that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of short and long-term goals that are aligned with our strategic objectives and the creation of shareholder value.
After application of the individual performance modifier.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 84 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee would generally seek to align the Basis of calculations remuneration package offered with our policy outlined in the table Fixed above.
However, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional Fixed remuneration only.
No payout under the annual bonus plan or PSP.
variable remuneration arrangements in respect of an Executive Directors appointment that it considers appropriate and necessary to 1 Threshold recruit and retain the individual.
Any variable remuneration awarded Includes the following assumptions for the payout of the incentive in respect of the Executive Directors appointment shall be limited to components of the package: 480% of base salary, this reflects our bonus policy 180% of salary Bonus: 15% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial and the level of award under the PSP in exceptional circumstances Officer 10% of maximum opportunity.
This limit excludes any awards made to compensate the Executive Director for remuneration forfeited from their previous PSP: 62.5% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 50% of salary employer.
If appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied forthe Chief Financial Officer 25% of maximum opportunity.
to a new appointments annual bonus in the year of joining.
Target The Remuneration Committee may make awards on appointing an Includes the following assumptions for the payout of the incentive Executive Director to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving components of the package: a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration Committee will Bonus: 75% of base salary 50% of maximum opportunity.
take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions PSP: 125% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash forthe Chief Financial Officer 50% of maximum opportunity.
or shares and the time over which they would have vested.
Generally, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
Maximum Includes the following assumptions for the payout of the incentive In the event of recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may components of the package: grant awards to a new Executive Director under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R which allows for the granting of awards, to facilitate, in unusual Bonus: 150% of base salary 100% of maximum opportunity before circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without seeking application of the individual performance modifier.
prior shareholder approval or under other appropriate Company share PSP: 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary plans.
2R will be limited to granting buy-out forthe Chief Financial Officer 100% of maximum opportunity.
Maximum after application of the individual performance modifier In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, Includes the following assumptions for the payout of the incentive legacy terms and conditions may be honoured, including pension components of the package: entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards and the exercise Bonus: 180% of base salary 100% of maximum opportunity after of any discretion in connection with such payments.
Similarly, if an application of the individual performance modifier.
Executive Director is appointed following the Companys acquisition ofor merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would PSP: 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary be honoured.
forthe Chief Financial Officer 100% of maximum opportunity.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive For the purposes of these illustrations, no share price growth or Director, remuneration arrangements will normally reflect the receiptof dividends is assumed.
Recruitment Executive Directors The Remuneration Committees intention is that timely disclosure of the The Remuneration Committees key principle when determining remuneration structure of any new Executive Director or Chairman will appropriate remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director be made by the Company wherever practical.
appointed from within the organisation or externally is to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its Directors service agreements Executive Directors shareholders, without paying more than is considered necessary by the Executive Directors are employed on permanent contracts which are Remuneration Committee to recruit an executive of the required calibre to terminable on 12 months notice from the Company.
A description of the develop and deliver the business strategy.
When determining appropriate payment in lieu of notice provisions can be found below.
The Companys remuneration arrangements the Remuneration Committee will take into policy in respect of the notice periods for the termination of Executive account all relevant factors.
These factors may include among others : Directors contracts conforms to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the level and type of remuneration opportunity being forfeited: The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the Executive the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from and whether Directors and senior management do not contain any matters that are anyrelocation is required: required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive.
The contracts of the skills, experience and calibre of the individual: service for Executive Directors are as set out below and are available at the circumstances of the individual: and rentokil-initial.
the current external market and salary practice including market practice on additional benefits.
Executive Directors Date of service agreement Type of agreement Notice by the Company Notice by the Director Andy Ransom 31 December 2013 Rolling contract 12 months 12 months Jeremy Townsend 4 March 2010 Rolling contract 12 months 6 months 1.
The proposed policy would provide the Remuneration Committee with the flexibility to increase the payout for threshold performance up to 20% of salary in future years.
For 2018 threshold remains at 10% of the maximum bonus opportunity as was the case in 2017.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 85 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy Key provisions upon contract termination Base pay and benefits Other Executive Directors are entitled to a payment in lieu of notice equal to base pay Executive Directors may be entitled to other payments including, but not limited to, and the value of benefits only for the duration of the remaining notice period, costs of appropriate repatriation relocation, outplacement, settlement agreement, subject to mitigation.
The Company has the ability to terminate Executive Directors non-compete agreement, legal and or tax and other relevant professional costs.
employment, in the event of a prolonged mental or physical incapacity to carry out The Remuneration Committee would look to ensure that the level of these costs his her Company duties and without notice summary dismissal, in the event of gross benefits was reasonable and in the best interests of shareholders.
misconduct or being disqualified to act as a Director.
Appropriate medical benefits may still be provided in the case of prolonged mental or physical incapacity.
Bonus including Deferred Bonus Performance Share Plan PSP Plan DBP Cash bonus Leaving before the end of the performance period In the event of retirement, death, disability, redundancy, change of control, sale In the event of retirement, redundancy, change of control, sale of the employing of the employing company or any other circumstance at the discretion of the company or any other circumstance at the discretion of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee, Executive Directors may receive a bonus payment for Committee, awards will vest on the original vesting date on a time apportioned the year in which they cease employment.
This payment will normally be pro-rated basis unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
for time and performance: however, the Remuneration Committee retains the Performance will be measured at the end of the original performance period.
discretion to review overall business and individual performance and determine Participants will have six months from the end of the holding period to exercise.
that a different level of bonus payment is appropriate.
In the event of ill health, disability or death or in the event of any other exceptional Otherwise, generally, Executive Directors must be employed at the date of circumstance if the Remuneration Committee determines, awards will vest early payment to receive a bonus.
In certain circumstances, the Remuneration on a time apportioned basis.
Performance will be measured to the early vesting Committee may determine that a bonus payment may be due to date.
Participants will have six months from leaving to exercise 12 months for death reflect performance and contribution to the point of cessation.
or up to 24 months if the Remuneration Committee so determines.
DBP leaving before date of vest If participants leave for any other reason before the end of the performance period, Deferred bonus shares will normally vest in full following completion of the three-year their award will lapse on termination.
Participants will have six months from the date of vest to exercise.
Leaving after the end of the performance period The vesting of awards will be accelerated for death and there will be 12 months Any awards in the two-year holding period will vest following completion of the from death to exercise or up to 24 months if the Remuneration Committee so two-year holding period.
Participants will have six months from the latest of the end determines.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to allow the vesting of the holding period or the leaving date to exercise 12 months for death or up to of awards so that it vests before the original three-year vesting date.
24 months if the Remuneration Committee so determines.
DBP leaving after date of vest The Executive Director will generally have six months in which to exercise their awards from the date of leaving 12 months for death or up to 24 months if the Remuneration Committee so determines.
When an Executive Director leaves the business on the basis of mutual agreement, the Remuneration Committee will determine an appropriate payment taking into account the circumstances of leaving but any payment will be no more generous than that for leavers by reason of disability, ill-health, retirement, redundancy, death or sale of an individual employing business.
There are no provisions for notice periods or compensation in the event of the termination of the appointment of the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director.
Key elements of policy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees Approach Details Other items Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined Non-Executive Directors fees are payable in cash and No element of Non-Executive Director remuneration by the Board on the recommendation of the Nonconsist of a basic fee plus additional fees payable to: is performance-related.
Executive Directors Terms Committee of the Board the Senior Independent Director: and The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do comprising the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Board Committee Chairmen.
not participate in any of the Companys incentive the Chief Financial Officer within the limits set by the schemes, nor are they eligible to join the Companys Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Directors fees Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors pension scheme.
are set at a level which is considered appropriate on an ongoing or temporary basis if there is a change in for the calibre of individual required to support the their responsibilities or a significant increase in the time The Chairman receives the benefit of having access delivery of business strategy and taking into account commitment required from them to fulfil their role.
to a company car and a driver and any tax thereon.
skills, experience, time commitment and independent The fees for Non-Executive Directors, including the surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of The Non-Executive Directors do not currently Chairman, shall not exceed in aggregate 1,000,000 per similar companies.
However, benefits may annum or such higher amount as the Company may from be provided in the future if, in the view of the NonFees for the Company Chairman are determined time to time by ordinary resolution determine, as set out Executive Directors Terms Committee for Nonby the Board based on external remuneration in the Companys Articles of Association.
Executive Directors or the Remuneration Committee advice and considered by the Remuneration for the Chairman, this was considered appropriate.
Committee taking into account typical fee Non-Executive Directors who are based outside the arrangements at other companies of a similar size UK may be provided with support in relation to their and complexity, the time commitment required to fulfil tax reporting.
the role and the calibre of the individual required.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 86 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy Letters of appointment Remuneration Policy other information Non-Executive Directors Change of control Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment, but not If the Company is taken over or wound up, PSP awards may vest by service contracts.
Subject to annual re-election at the AGM, Nonreference to the extent to which the performance conditions are met Executive Directors will be appointed for an initial period of three years, and on a time pro-rated basis calculated on a monthly basis subject to which may be extended for a further period of three years by mutual the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Outstanding PSP awards consent and thereafter reviewed annually, subject to acceptable tests may be vested automatically on a change of control on the participants ofperformance and independence.
Non-Executive Directors do not behalf.
Typically salaries and bonuses will be paid to the date of change have periods of notice.
The dates of their original appointment are shown below: DBP awards shall vest in full.
If participants are offered, and consent to, an equivalent award in the new company they will not vest and instead will be exchanged for a new award.
Participants have one month from Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Expiry of current term the change of control date to exercise their award: any options that are Richard Burrows 14 January 2008 13 January 2019 not exercised at the end of that period will be automatically exercised.
Sir Crispin Davis 20 July 2017 19 July 2020 Remuneration Committee discretion The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any John Pettigrew 1 January 2018 31 December 2020 remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including 1 exercising any discretions available to it in connection with Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 March 2012 4 March 2018 such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: Julie Southern 21 July 2014 20 July 2020 before the date the Companys first Directors Remuneration Linda Yueh 1 November 2017 31 October 2020 Policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 came into effect: 1.
This was renewed to 4 March 2019 at a meeting of the Board of Directors on 22 February 2018. before the Remuneration Policy set out above came into effect, Chairman provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the The Chairman has a letter of appointment setting out his responsibilities time they were agreed: or for the management of the Board.
The Chairmans contract may be at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the terminated by either party without notice.
Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and the Chairman payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office and on Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration itswebsite at rentokil-initial.
and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the Directors Remuneration Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 87 Directors Annual Remuneration Report Introduction The Annual Remuneration Report has been split into three sections participate in any of the Companys incentive or pension arrangements for ease of reference.
This introductory section provides an overview or have any involvement in the day-to-day running of the Company.
of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the year.
It is intended that Richard Burrows will stand down as Chairman of the The second section, from page 89, provides an explanation of how Remuneration Committee, subject to re-election by shareholders at the current Directors Remuneration Policy was implemented in the theAGM in May, at the end of December 2018. year ended 31 December 2017 and shows the alignment between the Companys strategy, remuneration framework and performance as well Activities of the Remuneration Committee as the payments made to Directors during this period.
The final section, The key activities of the Remuneration Committee during 2017 included from page 97, provides an overview of how the proposed Directors the following: Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2018, subject to shareholder comprehensive Directors Remuneration Policy review ahead of the approval at the Annual General Meeting in May 2018. binding shareholder vote in 2018, including: overview and discussion as to the necessity for a review: Remuneration Committee responsibilities consideration of Executive Director remuneration in relation to The Remuneration Committees main responsibilities are developing Company performance and alignment with peers: and setting the Directors Remuneration Policy and overseeing its the application of holding periods and share deferral: and application.
It determines and agrees the executive remuneration shareholder feedback from the consultation undertaken: policy with the Board and approves individual remuneration approval of the following for Executive Directors and the Executive arrangements for the Chairman, Executive Directors and members Leadership Team: of the Executive Leadership Team, including arrangements relating base salaries for 2017: to those joining and leaving the business.
It reviews executive bonus outcomes for 2016 and bonus structure for 2017: and performance and strives to ensure that remuneration structures align proposed 2017 PSP awards and targets: theinterests of management with those of shareholders and operate approval of the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report: inthe best long-term interests of the Company.
full review of market practice on remuneration and governance issues The Remuneration Committee oversees contractual terms on in conjunction with remuneration advisors: termination affecting Executive Directors and members of the Executive consideration of reward arrangements for key executives below Leadership Team, and seeks to ensure that any payments made Executive Director level: are both fair to the individual and to the Company, that failure is not approval of the vesting of the 2014 PSP award as a result of rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
performance targets being met: rebasing of the EPS target for the 2015 PSP: The Remuneration Committee also oversees the Companys monitoring dilution limits in the Companys share plans: incentive schemes including the operation and effectiveness of annual performance review of the Committee: performance measures and targets in both the annual bonus plan and terms of reference review: in the Performance Share Plan PSP.
It also lends oversight to major monitoring shareholder corporate governance and voting guidelines: changes in employee remuneration in the Group.
and Finally, it has responsibility to report to shareholders on remuneration review and recommendation to the Board of the Companys Gender matters and to select and appoint advisors to the Remuneration Pay Gap Report for 2017.
Terms of reference The Remuneration Committees terms of reference include matters Remuneration Committee members and attendance indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code and best in 2017 practice governance principles and they set out its authority and duties clearly.
The terms of reference are reviewed and approved annually by the Board and are available on the Companys website.
TheRemuneration Committee gives full regard to the matters set out inthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
100% 100% 100% Membership and attendance Following Alan Giles retirement at the AGM in May 2017, Chris Geoghegan was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 2 until his resignation in September 2017.
Richard Burrows was Richard Burrows, Alan Giles Chris Geoghegan Chairman 2 2 meetings attended 3 3 meetings attended subsequently appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 6 6 meetings attended having been a member of the Remuneration Committee for almost 10 years.
Following the resignation of Chris Geoghegan, there was a short period where the Remuneration Committee only had two members and during this time two meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held.
Further information on this can be found on page 51.
Linda Yueh joined the Remuneration Committee upon her 100% 100% appointment in November 2017 resulting in the Committee once again being comprised of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
3 Angela SeymourLinda Yueh The Committee members have a broad and diverse set of skills Jackson 1 1 meeting attended and knowledge that, when combined, bring the necessary level of 6 6 meetings attended experience and know-how to ensure remuneration matters are dealt with in a balanced, independent and informed manner.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters to be 1.
Alan Giles retired from the Remuneration Committee on 10 May 2017.
He was Chairman of the Committee until his retirement.
decided by the Committee, other than as a shareholder.
Chris Geoghegan resigned from the Remuneration Committee on 18 September 2017. ofthe Committee has any conflict of interest in carrying out their role on He was Chairman of the Committee from 10 May 2017 until his resignation.
the Committee arising from other directorships nor does any member 3.
Linda Yueh joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 2017.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 88 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report Introduction The Remuneration Committee Chairman presents a summary of material Voting at the 2017 AGM matters discussed at each meeting to the following Board meeting At the Companys last AGM on 10 May 2017, the outcome of the advisory and minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
vote in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report was as follows.
The Remuneration Committee reports to shareholders annually in this There was no vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2017 report and the Committee Chairman attends the AGM to address any AGM as it had been approved by shareholders in 2016. questions arising.
Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee conducted a review of its performance during the year with the assistance of Lintstock, an external independent 2017 AGM Remuneration Report voting results specialist consultancy.
The review concluded that the Remuneration Committee continued to operate effectively and that individual Directors Votes for 1,281,729,638 serving on the Remuneration Committee continued to have access to appropriate advice and information.
Percentage for 91.1% Advisors to the Remuneration Committee Votes against 125,210,885 Material advice and or services were provided to the Remuneration Percentage against 8.9% Committee during the year by: Deloitte LLP Deloitte : Total votes cast 1,406,940,523 Tapestry Compliance LLP Tapestry : Vanessa Evans Group HR Director: Votes withheld abstentions 178,573 Daragh Fagan Group General Counsel & Company Secretary: and 2016 AGM Remuneration Policy voting results Debra Hayes Group Reward, Pension & Benefits Director.
Deloitte is retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide Votes for 1,382,246,241 independent advice on executive remuneration matters and on the Percentage for 97.4% Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Votes against 36,998,254 code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Percentage against 2.6% Fees charged during the year for advice to the Remuneration Committee were 16,150.
Deloitte also provided services to the HR and Total votes cast 1,419,244,495 Company Secretarial teams in their roles supporting the Remuneration Committee.
These services included support in preparing the Directors Votes withheld abstentions 1,481,537 Remuneration Report, provision of market data and support in relation to the taxation of and accounting for share plans.
The Remuneration A vote for includes those votes giving the Chairman discretion.
Committee is satisfied that the Deloitte engagement partner and team, A vote withheld is not classed as a vote in law and is not counted in who provide remuneration advice to the Remuneration Committee, the calculation of proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
do not have connections with the Group that may impair their independence.
The Remuneration Committee is pleased with the level of shareholder support received at the 2017 AGM.
The Company remains committed During the year separate teams within Deloitte provided the to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting Companywith a limited level of advice over non-remuneration matters, outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution such as taxation, although they are one of a number of advisors to in relation to Directors remuneration, the Company would seek to the Company in such areas.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the thatneither the quantum nor the nature of services provided by following Annual Report any actions in response to it.
Deloitteto the Company which are unrelated to remuneration matters represent a conflict of interest over the firms role as advisors to the Remuneration Committee.
Tapestrys involvement with the Remuneration Committee is limited to advice on the operation of the Companys executive share plans in relation to the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
Fees charged during the year for this were 3,100.
The Group HR Director has direct access to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and together with the Group Reward, Pension & Benefits Director advises the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters relating to Executive Directors and members of the Executive Leadership Team.
The Company Chairman attends meetings and makes recommendations in relation to the remuneration and incentive arrangements for the ChiefExecutive.
The Chief Executive attends and makes recommendations in respect of remuneration arrangements for his direct reports.
No Director or executive is present when their own remuneration is under consideration.
Read the Remuneration Committee terms of reference at rentokil-initial.
com investors governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 89 Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 Single total figure for the remuneration of Executive Directors The table below has been audited.
Executive Directors are provided with life assurance, permanent health insurance, and a company car or a car allowance.
In addition, in 2017 a security review, costing 2,400 was conducted for Andy Ransom.
The value of the taxable benefits is included under Benefits in the above table.
There were no other taxable benefits paid to Executive Directors in 2017.
Andy Ransom receives a pension contribution, in the form of a cash supplement, worth 25% of base salary.
Jeremy Townsends aggregate pension contribution from the Company is worth 15% of salary.
In compliance with reporting regulations, the 2017 single total figure includes the 2015 PSP which is due to vest in March 2018.
The value of the 2015 PSP at vest has been estimated based on the average of the Companys share price over the last financial quarter of 2017, giving a price of 317.64p, and the anticipated performance outcomes detailed on page 93.
The actual value of the 2015 PSP will be restated next year once the final performance outcome and the share price at date of vesting are known.
The 2016 single total figure included both the 2013 PSP awards which vested in 2016 and the 2014 PSP awards which vested in March 2017, as both awards had performance periods ending in that reporting year.
The 2014 PSP element of the 2016 single total figure was estimated.
The award vested at 100% and has been restated from last year based on the actual share price at the date of vesting on31 March 2017 of 246.7p.
Andy Ransom received 912,792 shares, which included 51,488 shares in respect of dividend equivalents, and Jeremy Townsend received 460,397 shares, which included 25,970 shares in respect of dividend equivalents.
Annual bonus plan 2017 bonus outcome The Remuneration Committee reviewed the 2017 bonus plan outcome Quadrant Co-efficient 2017 for the Groups senior management population based on the targets set at the start of the financial year.
The metrics and the levels of Emerging 1.39 performance for the Executive Directors for the 2017 bonus plan are set out on page 91.
The table on page 77 shows the alignment between our Growth 1.10 strategy and remuneration framework.
Protect & Enhance 0.60 Individual performance is accounted for using an individual Manage for Value 0.37 performance modifier, which is linked to the Groups performance and development review process.
Further details are set out below.
Bonuses earned reflect the performance of the constituent businesses which make The quadrants shown above are prior to the joint venture with Haniel and up the overall Group performance as well as achievement against specific the restructure of the business.
Performance ratings are linked to Executive Directors bonuses through For any bonus to be payable to an Executive Director, two gateway the individual performance modifier as set out in the table below which is conditions had to be met.
Both conditions were met as follows: applied to the outturn of the financial element of the bonus.
An individual performance modifier is applied to bonus payments for all global senior Gateway condition: The Company must achieve at least 95% of the managers based upon objectives and behaviours as it is for Executive profit target 281.6m which is 267.5m.
Objectives in the individual performance modifier include areas Gateway condition: The Company must achieve Free Cash Flow such as People, Customers, Safety, Systems, Governance & Control and generation of 130.0m.
As both gateway conditions were satisfied, Executive Directors bonuses were determined by Ongoing Operating Profit before restructuring Performance rating 1 2 3 4 5 costs and Ongoing Revenue performance plus an individual 1 performance modifier.
To support the delivery of profitable growth in 2017 Modifier 0% 75% 100% 110% 125% and beyond, and to align incentives with the Groups strategy, revenue targets for Executive Directors were weighted to focus on sectors that 1.
The maximum individual performance modifier that can be applied to the bonus is 125%.
However, for the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Leadership Team the annual bonus is were critical to the business.
To provide this focus, co-efficients were capped at 120% of salary.
applied to the revenue generated from the quadrants as follows: Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 90 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 The performance rating for the Chief Executive was 4, resulting in a 110% modifier applying to bonus.
The performance rating for the Chief Financial Officer was 3, resulting in a 100% modifier applying to bonus.
The assessment of the performance ratings, by the Chairman for the Chief Executive andby the Chief Executive for the Chief Financial Officer, took into account their key achievements during 2017 as detailed below.
Strategic Strategic objectives alignment Andy Ransom Jeremy Townsend Ensured that improvements in business Free Cash Flow of 175.8m well ahead of 130m Achieving Shareholders performance is sustainable and not negatively target and an increase of 19.4m on 2016. greater impacted by non-operational matters delivering Delivery of a fully funded pension scheme.
a fully funded pension scheme and reducing Driving improvements in business profitability exposure to long-standing litigation and performance including European turnaround, environmental property commitments.
deployment of pricing tools and reduction in Turnaround in Europe region execution of the restructuring costs.
improvement plan delivering results in line with Central IT and Finance function costs brought in budget.
Tangible operational improvements below budget.
against the regions Quality agenda.
Transparency and communication c. 200 Investor Relations strategy successfully executed Increase Shareholders meetings with investors and analysts, articulating with c. 200 meetings conducted with investors and earnings our evolved business operating model including analysts and refresh of the business operating model.
andreturns new up-weighted financial guidance.
Share price increased by c. 45% in 2017 trading year.
Share price increased by c. 45% in 2017.
Further increase seen in North America shareholder base.
M&A plans exceeded in all areas delivered joint M&A programme executed and acquisitions Value enhancing Shareholders venture with Haniel, sale of flat linen business performing above required hurdle rates.
M&A in Growth in France, over 35 acquisitions focused on Strong financial review and support for joint venture & Emerging Growth and Emerging markets.
PCI joint venture with Haniel, sale of flat linen business in France and completed, making Rentokil PCI the No.
1 pest PCI joint venture in India.
markets control company in India.
Strong financial control and governance across all Continued to build scale in North America and set M&A activity.
the public target of reaching c. $1.5bn revenue c. 18% margin by the end of 2020.
Delivered world-class safety standards across Improved colleague engagement scores for global An Employer Colleagues the Group with long-term absence and working IT and Finance functions resulting in improved of Choice days lost rates well ahead of target.
Double-digit functional bench strength and stability.
improvements achieved in both key metrics.
Continued investment in IT and Finance training Increased colleague engagement and colleague and upskilling particularly at the middle enablement levels to reach the world-class High management levels.
Performing standard for the first time based on independent Korn Ferry Hay Group analysis, resulting in improved service levels.
Record levels of training and development being delivered across the Group.
Step change in perceptions of the Company as a high-quality service provider and employer with 5 star rating on Trustpilot and 4.3 5 on Glassdoor, and improvements in both customer retention and customer satisfaction.
Voted Britains Most Admired Support Services company in 2017.
Created a 20% increase in our innovation pipeline Strong progress made in key areas of delivery Leading the field Customers year on year and launched new market-leading including global deployment of ServiceTrak and in innovation innovations Lumnia, RapidPro and AutoGate to roll-out of myRentokil.
Opened The Power Centre Continued successful deployment of digital to drive even greater levels of innovation and platforms across the Group.
Delivered Pest Control growth of over 20%.
IT security further enhanced and additional testing Digital deployment at pace overall web contacts and training completed to further reduce cyber risk.
growth at c. 30% 44% organic, generating Development of the IT target operating model to over 3.7 million more visitor sessions than last allow a more agile approach to product design and year increasing sales enquiries and customer delivery globally.
myRentokil launched in 32 markets, with 93,000 users.
The table on page 77 shows the alignment between our strategy and remuneration framework.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 91 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 Bonus outcomes for 2017 and details of the range around target used to assess performance have been disclosed in the table below.
Annual bonus 2017 Ongoing Operating Ongoing Potential Potential 1 Profit Revenue outcome for outcome for 50% weighting 50% weighting Andy Ransom Jeremy Townsend Total Range around target from threshold to maximum 95% to 105% 99% to 101% 2017 threshold 10% 267.5m 2,200.3m 73,556 47,286 2017 target 50% 281.6m 2,222.5m 367,782 236,430 2017 maximum 100% 295.7m 2,244.7m 735,564 472,860 2017 achievement 282.4m 2,294.1m 2017 performance 100.29% 103.22% % bonus achieved of salary before modifier 52.90% 100.0% 76.45% Andy Ransom, Chief Executive Bonus before modifier 194,557 367,782 562,339 Performance modifier 110% Bonus outcome for 2017 618,573 % bonus achieved of salary 84.10% Jeremy Townsend, Chief Financial Officer Bonus before modifier 125,071 236,430 361,501 Performance modifier 100% Bonus outcome for 2017 361,501 Bonus as % of salary 76.45% 1.
After the application of the Ongoing Revenue co-efficient.
See segment co-efficients on page 89.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards The Executive Directors and senior management population participate in the PSP.
The table on page 77 shows the alignment between our strategy and the remuneration framework.
In 2015, the Executive Directors were granted a target award of shares which was subject to two performance measures: relative TSR performance for two-thirds of the award and EPS growth for one-third of the award plus an individual performance modifier.
If all were met to the maximum level then up to 200% of the target award of shares could vest.
Andy Ransoms target award was over 632,324 shares worth 120% of salary and Jeremy Townsends target award was over 338,743 shares worth 100% of salary.
The EPS performance period for the 2015 awards ended during the 2017 financial year.
The TSR performance period for the 2015 award is measured over a three-year period ending during the 2018 financial year.
The TSR element of the award is therefore estimated using the average of the Companys share price over the last financial quarter of 2017.
Estimated performance against the performance measures and the modifier is summarised below.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 92 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 2015 PSP award performance outcome Individual Performance Condition Actual Estimated performance 1 2 3 Grant date Vesting date condition definition Performance period Threshold Maximum outturn Vesting modifier 31 March 31 March Relative TSR TSR 31 March 2015- If median rank If upper 159.3% 100% of the An individual 2015 2018 two-thirds measured 29March 2018 is achieved quartile rank increase in TSR element performance of the total against 25% of the is achieved TSR.
Ranked of the award modifier is award the FTSE award vests.
100% of the 8th out of 200 is on track applied as 350 index, award vests.
comparator tovest in detailed in excluding companies.
March 2018. the notes financial below.
This services, could increase property vesting to and primary a maximum resources of 200% or sectors.
4 4 EPS oneAnnualised 1 January 2015- 11.9% pa for 18.2% pa for 16.9 % pa 84.9% of the third of the EPS growth.
31December 2017 25% of the 100% of the EPS element total award EPS element EPS element of the award to vest to vest.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between median and upper quartile performance for the TSR element of the award.
No awards vest for below median performance.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between threshold and on target and on target and maximum for the EPS element of the award.
The estimated outcome of the TSR element of the 2015 PSP has been based on performance in the fourth quarter of 2017.
The numbers will be restated in next years Annual Report to reflect actual performance.
F or Executive Directors, the effect of the individual performance modifier, as set out in the table below, would be to reduce the level of award that would otherwise vest to zero if an individual failed to reach threshold performance levels under the annual bonus in each of the three years of the performance period.
Likewise it can have the effect of increasing vesting to a maximum of 200% if maximum bonus performance was achieved in each of the three years of the performance period and the performance measures were met in full.
Achievement against annual bonus in respect of each financial year averaged over performance period Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum Individual performance modifier 0% 50% 100% 200% For the 2015-2018 PSP cycle, the bonus performance across the three years was 70.05% for the Chief Executive and 68.13% for the Chief Financial Officer.
The performance modifier had the effect of reducing the maximum opportunity payout from 200% to 140.10% for the Chief Executive and 136.26% for the Chief Financial Officer.
The EPS performance target for 2015 was originally threshold 7.0%, and maximum 13.0%.
This was revised upwards by the Remuneration Committee to 9.3% and 15.4% on 15 December 2015 and again to 11.9%, and 18.2% on 10 May 2017 to reflect material acquisitions and disposals.
The aggregate number of shares anticipated to vest in March 2018 is summarised in the table below.
The table also includes the additional number of shares relating to dividends accrued throughout the performance period estimated to be added to the final awards.
2015 PSP awards vesting The table below has been audited.
Total number On-target Proportion of Proportion of Individual of shares post Dividend Value award of relative TSR the EPS target performance performance equivalent Total shares of shares 1 2 Date of award shares target met met modifier conditions shares at vest vesting vesting Andy Ransom 31 March 2015 632,324 100% 84.9% 140.10% 841,303 42,603 883,096 2,807,639 Jeremy Townsend 31 March 2015 338,745 100% 84.9% 136.26% 438,354 22,198 460,552 1,462,897 1.
The 2015 PSP award is entitled to dividend equivalent shares between date of grant and date of vest calculated on the close of business share price on the date on which the dividend was paid.
These are included in the total shares vested in 2017.
2 The value of the 2015 PSP at vest is estimated based on an average of the Companys share price over the fourth quarter of 2017, giving a price of 317.64p.
Long-term incentives granted during the year On 31 March 2017, Andy Ransom and Jeremy Townsend were both granted an award of shares under the PSP worth 200% of salary.
The number of shares that vest will be two-thirds based on relative TSR performance and one-third based on EPS performance: Relative TSR performance measure: 25% of this element of the award will vest if Rentokil Initials performance at the end of the three-year performance period is positioned at median against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index, excluding financial services, property and primary resources sectors, with full vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these two points.
EPS performance measure: 25% of this element of the award will vest for EPS growth of 6.5% Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR over the three-year performance period with full vesting for EPS growth of 11.5% CAGR.
In addition, when determining the level of vesting, the Remuneration Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the business, as well as the value added for shareholders during the performance periods, and may adjust the vesting outcome if it considers this to be appropriate.
Awards to Executive Directors under the 2017 PSP award are set out in the table below.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 93 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 2017 PSP award The table below has been audited.
Number of Share price used to Performance Participant Date of award sharesawarded determine award Exercise price Face value of shares Date of vest period end Andy Ransom 31 March 2017 597,048 246.4p 0.0p 1,471,126 31 Mar 2020 30 Mar 2020 200% of salary Jeremy Townsend 31 March 2017 383,814 246.4p 0.0p 945,718 31 Mar 2020 30 Mar 2020 200% of salary 1.
The figures shown for the number of share awards are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares if any which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved as set out above.
Threshold minimum vesting equals 25% vesting.
No PSP shares will vest for below-threshold performance.
The face value of the award is based on the closing share price of 246.4p on 30 March 2017.
The awards may be exercised after vesting up to ten years from the date of grant.
The TSR condition will be measured over three years to 30 March 2020.
The EPS condition will be measured over three years to 31 December 2019.
The awards granted were in the form of nil-cost options.
Total PSP awards held by Executive Directors The table below has been audited.
Shares held by Andy Ransom under the 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards are vested but unexercised.
The 2014 PSP award is entitled to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares based on dividend payments between the date of grant and vesting.
These are included in the total shares at vest.
The awards are also entitled to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares post vest based on dividend payments between the date of vest and the date one month before exercise.
These shares are applied at exercise.
The PSP 2014 award partially vested on 31 March 2017.
Andy Ransom has not exercised his 2014 PSP award during the year.
Jeremy Townsend exercised his award on 3 August 2017 at 290.9529p and sold 219,156 shares to cover tax and national insurance liabilities.
He retained the balance of 245,499 shares which are included in the Directors shareholdings table on page 94.
The performance conditions of the 2015 PSP award are contained on page 92.
The 2016 and 2017 PSP awards have relative TSR and EPS performance measures which apply to two-thirds and one-third of the total awards respectively.
The performance period for the TSR element of the 2016 and 2017 PSP awards will be measured to 10 March 2019 and 30 March 2020 respectively.
The EPS performance period is measured to 31 December of the year preceding the vesting date.
The vesting dates of the 2016 and 2017 PSP awards are 12 May 2019 and 31 March 2020 respectively.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 94 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office to Directors during 2017 and no payments to former Directors.
Single total figure for the remuneration during 2017 of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table below has been audited.
The benefit relates to the private use by the Chairman of a Company driver and vehicle.
Sir Crispin Davis was appointed on 20 July 2017.
Chris Geoghegan resigned on 18 September 2017.
Alan Giles retired on 10 May 2017.
L inda Yueh was appointed on 1 November 2017.
Directors shareholdings and share interests The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017, or their date of cessation if earlier, and at 31 December 2016, or their date of appointment if later, are set out below.
No Director has any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Directors share interests The table below has been audited.
Chris Geoghegan resigned from the Board on 18 September 2017.
Alan Giles retired from the Board on 10 May 2017.
Linda Yueh was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2017.
There has been no change to the Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2017 and 28 February 2018.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 95 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 Chief Financial Officer from 2016.
Executive Directors are not expected Executive shareholding requirements to sell any exercisable PSP shares except to pay statutory withholding Since 2014, recognising investors preferences for executive taxes until shareholding guidelines have been achieved.
The Executive shareholding requirements, the Company has had shareholding Directors have met the minimum shareholding requirement.
guidelines under which Executive Directors have been expected to build if necessary, over a period of up to five years from appointment, As outlined elsewhere in this report, these guidelines will, subject to and subsequently maintain, an economic interest in Company shareholder approval of the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy, shares.
It was approved at the 2016 AGM under the current Directors be increased in 2018 to 300% of annual salary for the Chief Executive Remuneration Policy that the guideline would be increased to 200% of and 200% of annual salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
annual salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of annual salary for the Executive shareholding requirements Shareholding as Beneficial interests Value of a percentage Current Interest in PSP in shares at shareholding at of salary at shareholding share awards at 3 4 Executive Directors 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2017 guideline 31 Dec 2017 1 Andy Ransom Chief Executive 1,462,544 4,645,625 632% of salary 200% of salary 4,543,371 2 Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial Officer 734,099 2,331,792 493% of salary 150% of salary 1,648,731 1.
Andy Ransom has an interest in 1,978,673 vested 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP share awards which he has not yet exercised.
These figures are not included in his beneficial interest in shares figure at 31 December 2017 above but are included in the share award table on page 93.
Jeremy Townsend exercised his 2014 PSP award on 3 August 2017.
He sold a proportion of those shares to meet the associated personal tax liability on the sale.
The total post sale amount of the shares is included in his beneficial interests shown above.
The share valuation is based on an average share price of 317.64p calculated over the fourth quarter of 2017.
PSP share awards take the form of nil-cost options and are subject to performance conditions.
External appointments Executive Directors are entitled, subject to Board approval of the Jeremy Townsend was a member of the Corporate Accounting Council of specific appointment, to accept a non-executive directorship or similar the Financial Reporting Council until 30 June 2017.
He was paid 5,000 appointment outside the Company and to retain the fees in connection during 2017 for fees for his membership of the Corporate Accounting with such appointment.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Galliford Try plc on 1 September 2017.
He was paid 14,815 during Andy Ransom is a director and trustee of the charity Street League and 2017 for his fees.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of parkrun a patron of the charity Malaria No More UK, for which he receives no Trading Limited and parkrun Global Limited for which he has received remuneration.
no remuneration since his appointment in July 2016.
In addition, he is also a director of a business run by a member of his family for which he has received no remuneration.
He has no executive involvement in the business and the appointment does not represent a conflict of interest.
The 2011 single total figure for Alan Brown, the Chief Executive at the time, includes the value of the 2008 Share Incentive Plan of 2,573,971 which was valued on the release date of 20 May 2011.
These shares were called for during 2014.
Alan Brown was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2008 and stepped down on 30 September 2013: Andy Ransom was appointed from that date.
The single total figure has been apportioned to reflect payment during these periods.
The 2016 single total figure for the Chief Executive, Andy Ransom, includes the restated value of 912,792 shares under the 2014 PSP award based on the actual share price at the date of vesting on 31 March 2017 of 246.7p.
The 2017 single total figure includes the value of 873,096 shares under the 2015 PSP award which is due to vest on 31 March 2018 based on the average share price over the fourth quarter of 2017 of 317.64p.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 96 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2017 TSR performance over a nine-year period relative Rentokil Initial plcs TSR compared against the TSR toFTSE Index of FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 indices over The following graph shows total shareholder return TSR over a ninea nine-year period year period reflecting the holding of the Companys shares, plotted against the FTSE 100 Index, the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 FTSE 100 FTSE 350 Total shareholder return Index, on a consistent basis with the graph shown last year.
The FTSE 250 Rentokil Initial plc 850 Company has been a constituent of one or more of these indices over 800 the nine-year period that is shown.
This chart has been prepared by 750 Deloitte LLP for the Company for inclusion in the Annual Report for 700 the year ended 31 December 2017 and is based on data sourced from 600 550 Thomson Reuters DataStream and uses spot Return Index data at 500 each year end.
450 400 Percentage change in remuneration 350 The table below sets out a comparison of the change in pay for the 300 Chief Executive for the year ended 2017 compared with 2016 and to all 250 UK employees.
The Chief Executive is based in the UK and as such is 200 impacted by the same economic and legislative environments as other 150 100 UK colleagues.
50 0 Average base salary for all UK employees includes overtime and Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec premium rate pay, which is flexed to meet business requirements, as 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 well as annual and out-of-cycle pay increases and headcount changes during the year.
All bonus schemes are performance related and reflect business performance during the year.
Base salary Annual bonus Benefits Total Chief Executive 1.0% increase 2.0% decrease 12.1% increase 0.2% decrease All UK employees 0.6% increase 7.4% increase 3.8% increase 1.6% increase 1.
Base salary includes overtime and premium rate pay.
Annual bonus includes our Group Management Bonus Scheme GMBS and any other bonus commission or cash incentive but excludes any long-term incentives.
Benefits include private healthcare, car allowance including trade down, cars, fully expensed fuel cards and commercial vans private use.
Pension and retirement benefits are not included in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
All UK employees includes Executive Directors apart from the Chief Executive but not Non-Executive Directors.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out amounts paid in total employee costs and total dividends paid for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
2017 2016 % m m change Remuneration paid to all employees of the Group 1,165.9 1,054.5 10.6% increase Distributions to shareholders 64.3 55.5 15.9% increase Details of the remuneration paid to all employees can be found in Note A9 to the Financial Statements on page 121.
Details of the dividends declared and paid during the periods are contained in Note D1 to the Financial Statements on page 143.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 97 Looking forward 2018 The illustrations below detail the Executive Directors potential 2018 bonus structure remuneration for 2018 if the proposed Directors Remuneration Executive Directors can earn a maximum opportunity of 150% of their Policy is approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
A summary of base salary as an annual bonus before the application of the individual theapplication of the proposed policy can also be found on page 83. performance modifier.
40% of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years.
The focus of the bonus is on rewarding profitable Executive Director base salaries from 1 January 2018 growth in order to align Executive Directors incentives with the Groups Executive Directors and senior executives salaries are reviewed strategy.
The Remuneration Committee has approved the following with effect from 1 January each year in accordance with the prevailing proposed structure of bonuses for 2018 for the Executive Directors: 95% policy.
When reviewing salary levels, the Remuneration Committee of the profit target and a free cash flow gateway of 150m have to be takes into account a number of internal and external factors, including reached at Group level before a bonus is paid to the Executive Directors.
Company performance during the year, external market data and the If both these profit and cash flow gateways are achieved then Executive salary reviewprinciples applied to the rest of the organisation to ensure Directors can earn up to 150% of base salary based on a combination of aconsistent approach.
This is split 50% profit: 50% revenue for both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Base salaries reflect the role, individual experience, skills and contribution to overall business performance as well as external market Revenue targets for Executive Directors will continue to be weighted conditions.
Following a review of the performance of the business, the to focus on the categories that will set the foundations for longer-term economic and market considerations in the UK, where average pay profitable growth.
To provide this focus the following co-efficients will increases in the Company will be in the order of 2%, the Remuneration be applied to revenue generated from the businesses categories, as Committee agreed that the salaries of Executive Directors for 2018 described in the Strategic Report on page 20. should be as set out below.
Co-efficient 2018 Salary from 1 January 2018 Pest Control emerging 1.5 Executive Director Salary Effective date Andy Ransom 750,276 1 January 2018 Pest Control growth 1.1 Chief Executive 2% increase Hygiene 0.9 Jeremy Townsend 482,316 1 January 2018 Protect & Enhance 0.5 Chief Financial Officer 2% increase The co-efficients are applied to the total sales in each business category.
Fixed pay for 2018 will be: An individual performance modifier may also increase or decrease Base salary Estimated Pension based from benefits on salary from Total the opportunity arising from performance against the revenue and 1 January 2018 for2018 January 2018 fixedpay profit targets, as outlined below, to recognise individual contribution to 000 000 000 000 business performance.
This individual performance modifier applies to Andy Ransom 750.3 22.1 187.5 959.9 all colleagues who participate in the Group Management Bonus Scheme Chief Executive GMBS and is measured by the Companys performance and the development review process.
However, for the Executive Directors the annual bonus is capped at 180% of salary.
Bonus targets have not been disclosed looking forward for 2018 as the Board believes that this information is commercially sensitive.
Disclosing bonus targets could provide information about our business plans to our competitors which could be damaging to our business interests and therefore to shareholders.
However, retrospective bonus outcomes for 2017 have been disclosed in the table on page 90, and the 2018 targets will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017 98 Directors Remuneration Report Looking forward 2018 The EPS targets for awards granted in 2018 will be as follows: 2018 PSP award The Executive Directors PSP award for 2018 will be over shares up to Compound EPS a maximum of 250% and 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive Vesting level growth per annum and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
Shares under the awards will be Maximum 100% of maximum 13.0% per annum released no earlier than five years after grant i. e. following a three year vesting period and a two-year holding period.
Vesting of this award will On target 50% of maximum 9.6% per annum be determined by the Companys performance as follows: Two-thirds of the award will be subject to a TSR performance measure Threshold 25% of maximum 8.0% per annum relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index, excluding financial services, property and primary resources sectors: Vesting shall be calculated on a straight-line basis between threshold A relative TSR measure is used to ensure participants are and on target, and on target and maximum.
incentivised to outperform key peers and to ensure that the The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that these targets represent interests of management are aligned with shareholders.
a stretching range, in light of all relevant factors, including the current The FTSE 350 is recognised as a broad index and is considered business plan and analysts forecasts.
to be an appropriate benchmark for measuring performance given the Companys membership of that index, the scope and scale of In addition, when determining the level of vesting, the Remuneration the Companys international operations, and the diverse nature of Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of companies in the business services sector.
the business, as well as the value added to shareholders during the 25% of this portion of the award will vest if Rentokil Initials performance periods and may adjust the vesting outcome if it considers performance at the end of the three-year performance period is this to be appropriate.
positioned at median against the comparator group with the full award vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.
Vesting is on 2018 Non-Executive Directors fees astraight-line basis between these two points.
Non-Executive Director fees from 1 January 2018 One-third of the award will be subject to EPS growth targets: An EPS measure is used to link reward more directly to long-term Fee policy for year beginning 1 Position 1 January 2018 profit performance.
EPS is measured on a point-to-point basis over the three-year Chairman 357,000 per annum period of the award.
In order to measure underlying earnings improvement, EPS is measured after adjusting for impairments, Non-Executive Director 60,000 per annum amortisation, pension interest and material one-off items, as the Remuneration Committee considers that these items do not Senior Independent Director Additional 10,000 per annum reflect the underlying performance of the business.
Given the Companys continued focus on improving efficiency Chairman of Audit Committee Additional 15,000 per annum and reducing costs around restructuring, restructuring costs are Chairman of Remuneration Committee Additional 15,000 per annum included in the EPS calculation in order to incentivise management to maintain focus in this area.
Given the international nature of 1 Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director fees were increased on 1 September 2017. our business, EPS is measured on an exchange neutral basis The Chairmans fee was increased with effect from 1 January 2018 from 350,000 to 357,000, an to reflect management performance by removing the impact increase of 2%.
Prior to this the Chairmans fee had remained unchanged since 2008. of windfalls and losses as a result of exchange rate movements.
Richard Burrows Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2018 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2017
