Governance Remuneration committee report Main areas of responsibility Determining, in conjunction with the Board, the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, Chair, Company Secretary and other members of executive management that it is designated to consider: and Engaging with shareholders on matters relating to remuneration.
ED WARNER REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIR Meetings Total number of meetings held in 2017 4 Committee members Ed Warner Chair Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Peter Backhouse Independent Non-Executive Director 3 1 Marie-Louise Clayton Independent Non-Executive Director 2 James Hughes-Hallett Independent Non-Executive Director 3 2 James Morley Independent Non-Executive Director 2 Birger Nergaard Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Executive Directors attending by invitation Andi Case Executive Director 3 Jeff Woyda Executive Director 3 1.
Joined the committee on 7 March 2017 and was in attendance at the February 2017 meeting prior to this.
This has not been included above.
Retired from the Board and left the committee on 12 May 2017.
The remuneration committee the committee also held informal discussions as required.
Membership None of the committee members have day-to-day involvement with the business nor do they have any personal financial interest in the matters to be recommended.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
In particular, the Board is satisfied that the committee has the range of skills and relevant business experience to reach an independent judgement on the suitability of the remuneration policy.
The committees remit also covers remuneration arrangements for all employees where the committee reviews bonus payments for all employees in the business and consideration of risk is foremost in the committees deliberations.
Terms of reference The committees terms of reference are regularly reviewed to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Code.
The committees terms of reference can be found at www.
