COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Our Directors Remuneration Policy The current Policy Report was approved The Chief Executives remuneration Report the Policy Report sets out by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and, proposals for the other members of the the policies under which the Executive therefore, an updated Policy Report is Group Management Committee GMC and Non-Executive Directors are required by law to be approved by are reviewed by the Remuneration remunerated.
The Policy Report is shareholders at the 19 April 2018 AGM.
Committee, and recommendations as designed to be in full compliance with The current Policy Report can be found regards those proposals are made to the requirements of the Large and in full in the Essentra Annual Report 2014, the Board.
Medium-sized Companies and Groups a copy of which can be obtained from Accounts and Reports Amendment the Companys registered office or The Remuneration Committee also Regulations 2013, the UK Corporate downloaded from www.
takes note of the remuneration policy Governance Code as issued by the as detailed by the Chief Executive in Financial Reporting Council and As outlined in the Remuneration Committee respect of other levels of management the Listing Rules.
Chairs letter, the Remuneration Committee in the Company, and makes such has reviewed the continued appropriateness recommendations to the Chief Executive of the current Policy Report in the context as the Remuneration Committee deems of the Companys corporate strategy appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee following the appointment of Paul Forman has regard to the proposed remuneration as Chief Executive.
Following that review, policy for other management and shareholder approval will be sought at the employees across the Group, when 19 April 2018 AGM for the updated Policy determining recommendations on Report set out below.
Subject to remuneration for the Executive Directors shareholder approval, the updated Policy and other senior executives.
Report will take effect immediately after the 19 April 2018 AGM and will apply to The Remuneration Committee places the 2018 financial year.
significant focus on and spends considerable time reviewing the risks The key changes in the updated Policy surrounding the Companys existing Report are outlined in the Remuneration remuneration policies on an annual basis Committee Chairmans Letter.
The updated and has determined that there are no Policy Report also contains a number of significant concerns with the structure minor clarificatory changes and, where or operation of the remuneration policy.
relevant, updated terminology to reflect our current strategic priorities.
Remuneration Policy Report This section of the Remuneration Report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM.
Overview The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the Board the framework for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and the Chairman of the Board.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
No Director is involved in determining or voting on their own remuneration.
86 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM The Remuneration Committees main In determining the policy for the Executive Summary of components of Executive responsibilities are to: Directors, the Remuneration Committees Directors remuneration key objectives are to: The Remuneration Committee structures Develop the Companys Remuneration Executive Director remuneration in two Policy for the Executive Directors, the Ensure that senior executives distinct parts: i fixed remuneration of Company Secretary and other senior remuneration is designed so as to basic salary, pension and benefits: and executives, covering basic salary, attract, retain and motivate high ii variable performance-related bonus, long-term incentives, retirement quality executives in a manner that remuneration in the form of cash bonuses, provisions and other benefits aligns their remuneration with the deferred share bonuses and long-term interests of shareholders and other incentive arrangements.
Strike an appropriate balance between: stakeholders, particularly in the design i the fixed and variable: and ii the of the performance-related elements Remuneration for Executive Directors cash and equity-related components of their remuneration packages and is structured so that the variable of total remuneration packages their shareholding guidelines performance-related pay element forms Review and determine the terms a significant portion of each package.
Promote the achievement of both the of employment and remuneration The majority of total remuneration at the Companys annual and longer-term of the individual Executive Directors, maximum performance level will derive strategic objectives.
The Remuneration including any specific retirement or from the Companys long-term incentive Committee considers the alignment severance terms arrangements.
All incentives are designed of Company performance and the to be aligned to delivery of Essentras Determine the remuneration of the remuneration of its senior executives, strategic priorities.
Chairman of the Board including the Executive Directors, to be of the utmost importance.
It believes Establish and review the operation that senior executives should be highly of any employee share plans, including rewarded on a market-competitive the granting of awards, the setting basis for the delivery of stretching goals and testing of performance conditions but should also receive reduced rewards and exercising of any awards under when the business does not perform long-term incentive plans to expectations Select, appoint and determine the Encourage Executive Directors to act in terms of reference for independent a fair and responsible manner without consultants to advise the Remuneration unnecessary risk taking having regard Committee on remuneration matters to the long-term performance of the Company The Remuneration Committee considers all elements of the remuneration package as a whole.
It looks to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between them so that the need for both short-term success and long-term sustainable growth is recognised.
The Remuneration Committee also ensures that non-financial business measures and individual objectives reflect adequately the Companys environmental, social and governance ESG responsibilities.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Basic salary To reflect the Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set Not applicable.
particular skills increase normally taking effect from for Executive Director base salaries.
and experience 1 April although the Remuneration Any annual increase in salaries is at the of an individual Committee may award increases at discretion of the Committee taking into and to provide other times of the year if it considers account the factors stated in this table a competitive it appropriate.
The review takes into and the following principles: basic salary.
consideration a number of factors, Salaries would typically be increased including but not limited to : at a rate consistent with the average The individual Directors role, salary increase in percentage of experience and performance salary terms for permanent UK Business performance employees.
Pay and conditions elsewhere in Larger increases may be considered the Group appropriate in certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a change Market data for comparable roles in an individuals responsibilities or in in appropriate pay comparators the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
88 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus To ensure the One half of the total annual bonus is paid Chief Executive 150% of basic salary.
The bonus will be based on delivery of in cash shortly after the announcement performance assessed over Other Executive Directors 125% of Company of the annual results.
one year using appropriate basic salary.
performancefinancial, strategic and The other half is deferred into shares in related objectives, individual performance the Deferred Annual Share Bonus the and to aid measures.
DASB which will normally vest after retention and to three years subject to continued service.
The majority of the bonus align Directors will normally be determined by Performance is assessed against interests with those measure s of the Companys measures and targets which are of the Companys financial performance.
established on an annual basis by shareholders.
The remainder of the bonus As performance increases so does the will be based on financial, percentage payable up to the maximum.
strategic or operational measures appropriate to The bonus is subject to malus and the individual Director.
clawback provisions for a period of three years following the determination The selected measures for the of the bonus.
Circumstances in which next financial year are set out these provisions could be applied by below in the Annual Report on the Remuneration Committee are Remuneration on page 105. material misstatement in the Companys No more than 20% of each Financial Statements, error in assessing financial measure will vest the performance conditions, serious at threshold performance.
misconduct by an individual or serious reputational damage to the company or a relevant business unit.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect of shares which vest under deferred awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period this payment may assume that dividends had been reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP To drive the An annual award of performance An award to any Executive Director Vesting will be subject to long-term delivery share awards usually with a three-year would be limited to a maximum of performance conditions of the Companys performance and additional two-year 300% of salary.
as determined by the strategic holding period.
Remuneration Committee objectives, aid on an annual basis.
Awards are subject to malus and retention and to clawback provisions for a period of three The performance conditions align Directors years following the vesting of the awards.
will usually be some interests with those Circumstances in which these provisions combination of relative of the Companys could be applied by the Remuneration TSR, adjusted EPS, adjusted shareholders.
Committee are material misstatement cumulative operating cash in the Companys Financial Statements, flow and a capital return error in assessing the performance measure although the conditions, serious misconduct by Remuneration Committee an individual or serious reputational will retain discretion to include damage to the Company or a relevant alternative performance business unit.
measures which are aligned to the corporate strategy.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect The Remuneration Committee of shares which vest under LTIP awards may adjust the weightings of to reflect the value of dividends which the performance conditions would have been paid on those shares for each award although during the period up to the release of usually each condition would the shares this payment may assume have a weighting in the range that dividends had been reinvested in of 20% 40% of the award.
Company shares on a cumulative basis.
Performance will usually be measured over a threeyear period.
Up to 25% of each element vests at threshold performance, usually rising on a straight-line basis for performance up to the maximum level for full payment.
Below threshold performance, that element of the award will not vest.
90 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures All Employee Plans To create Under the UK Sharesave, employees For the UK plan, shares worth up to the No performance conditions alignment of including Executive Directors are invited value of the savings an Executive Director apply to All Employee Plans.
employees to enter a savings contract of three years agrees to make over the saving period at interests with those or five years, whereby the proceeds can the previously agreed option price.
The of shareholders be used towards the exercise of an option savings amount is subject to the HMRC and an awareness granted at the time they participate.
of the Companys The option price can be up to a 20% The US Plan is limited to the monthly share price discount on the share price at the time dollar equivalent of the UK Sharesave performance.
invitations to participate are issued.
plan and an option price of up to a An equivalent US Plan is operated in 15% discount.
a similar manner to the UK plan.
Pension To provide A contribution to a defined contribution Any future Executive Director Not applicable.
cost-effective plan or paid as a cash supplement.
appointment will have a maximum long-term benefits pension provision of 20% of salary.
comparable with The current Executive Directors have similar roles in pension provision of 25% of salary similar companies.
Chief Executive and 20% of salary Group Finance Director.
Other benefits To provide Other benefits include medical expenses, There is no overall maximum as Not applicable.
cost-effective life insurance, and a company car or cash the level of benefits depends on the benefits allowance.
annual cost of providing individual comparable with items in the relevant local market The Remuneration Committee may vary similar roles in and the individuals specific role.
these benefits from time to time to suit similar companies.
business needs, but they will be provided on broadly similar terms to those offered to other Group employees.
Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Shareholding requirement To align the These shareholding guidelines are The guideline minimum level for Not applicable.
interests of to be built up over six years from date Executive Directors is 200% of salary.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged and shareholders, The Remuneration Committee will review to hold a minimum of 7,500 shares.
encourage a focus progress towards the guidelines on an on long-term annual basis, and has the discretion to performance and adjust the guidelines in what it feels are risk management.
Non-Executive Directors To attract A basic fee is payable to all Non-Executive Fees for the current year are stated in Not applicable.
high-calibre Directors with supplementary fees for the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-Executive those with additional responsibilities, Fee increases may be greater than those Directors with the such as acting as Senior Independent of the wider workforce in any particular relevant experience Director or chairing a Board Committee.
year as they reflect changes to and skills.
Fees are reviewed periodically with responsibilities and time commitments reference to market levels in companies and the periodic nature of any increases.
of a comparable size and complexity, A resolution to amend the Companys and taking account of the responsibilities Articles of Association for aggregate and time commitment of each role.
annual fees for Non-Executive No Non-Executive Director participates Directors fees to be increased to in the Groups incentive arrangements 1,000,000 will be proposed at the or pension plan or receives any other 2018 AGM.
benefits other than where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a Non-Executive Director may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
92 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Remuneration Committee discretion Existing awards Remuneration mix The Remuneration Committee will operate The Remuneration Committee reserves The graph below demonstrates the the annual bonus plan and long-term the right to make any remuneration potential remuneration mix for both incentive plans according to their respective payments and or payments for loss of of the Executive Directors in 2018 in three rules and will be consistent with normal office including exercising any discretions theoretical scenarios: minimum, meeting market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC available to it in connection with such expectations and maximum.
rules where relevant, including flexibility payments notwithstanding that they are in a number of regards.
These include: not in line with the Remuneration Policy Paul Forman 3,005 3,000 2015 set out above where the terms of 42% When to make awards and payments the payment were agreed: i before the 2,500 2015 AGM the date the Companys first How to determine the size of an shareholder-approved Directors 2,000 award or a payment, or when and Remuneration Policy came into effect : 1,599 31% how much of an award should vest 1,500 20% ii before the Remuneration Policy set out Who receives an award or payment above came into effect, provided that the 29% 1,000 817 terms of the payment were consistent How to deal with a change of control 100% 51% 27% with the shareholder approved Directors 500 or restructuring of the Group Remuneration Policy in force at the time 0 Whether a participant is a good they were agreed: or iii at a time when Mini Minim mum um Me Mee et tiing ng M Ma ax xim imu um m e ex xpec pect ta at tiio on ns s bad leaver for incentive plan purposes, the relevant individual was not a Director and whether and what proportion of of the Company and, in the opinion of the Stefan Schellinger awards vest and timing of delivery Remuneration Committee, the payment 3,000 was not in consideration for the individual How and whether an award or an becoming a Director of the Company.
2,500 award of shares outlined in this Policy For these purposes payments includes that is yet to be granted may be 2,000 the Remuneration Committee satisfying adjusted in certain circumstances awards of variable remuneration and, in 1,455 eg, rights issues, corporate restructuring, 1,500 relation to an award over shares, the terms 37% events and special dividends of the payment are agreed at the time 1,000 820 32% 16% What the weighting, measures and the award is granted.
28% 456 500 targets should be for the annual bonus 100% 56% 31% plan and LTIP from year to year Choice of performance measures 0 and approach to target setting Mini Minim mum um Me Mee et tiing ng M Ma ax xim imu um m e ex xpec pect ta at tiio on ns s The Remuneration Committee also retains The Remuneration Committee sets LT LTI IP P the ability within the Remuneration Policy performance metrics under both the An Ann nua uall B Bon onu us s F Fiix xe ed P d Pa ay y to adjust the targets and or set different annual bonus plan and LTIP which are measures and alter weightings for the clearly aligned to the Groups strategy Assumptions: annual bonus plan, and to adjust targets and are usually part of its Key Performance Salary: received during 2018: Paul Forman for the LTIP if events occur which cause Indicators KPIs.
Personal objective 625,000: Stefan Schellinger 360,000 to it to determine that the conditions are unable performance measures within the annual 31 March 2018 and 369,700 thereafter.
to fulfil their original intended purpose.
bonus are also directly linked to key Pension: Paul Forman 25% of salary: Stefan Schellinger 20% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee may make Bonus maximum of 150% of salary for minor amendments to the Remuneration Targets are set at the start of each Paul Forman and 125% of salary for Policy set out in this Remuneration Policy performance period by the Remuneration Stefan Schellinger.
LTIP award of 200% of salary for Paul Forman Report for regulatory, exchange control, Committee taking into account relevant and 150% of salary for Stefan Schellinger.
tax or administrative purposes or to internal and external reference points and Meeting expectations scenario assumptions take account of a change in legislation are designed to be appropriately stretching.
50% of annual bonus maximum paid and without obtaining shareholder approval 25% of LTIP award vests.
Maximum scenario assumptions 100% for that amendment.
of annual bonus maximum paid and 100% of LTIP award vests.
No share price growth or dividend accrual considered.
Sharesave awards have been ignored.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT New appointments In order to facilitate recruitment For external and new internal Basic salary the Remuneration Committee may appointments, the Remuneration Will be set based on relevant market compensate for any bonus forgone Committee may set lower share data, experience and skills of the when the individual leaves their ownership guidelines, or permit individual, internal relativities across the previous employer.
a longer period for them to be met.
Company and the individuals current Share incentives Non-Executive Directors basic salary.
Any annual increase in New appointees will be granted awards In the event of the appointment salary for a new appointment would be under the LTIP up to the limit described of a new Non-Executive Director, at the discretion of the Remuneration in the Policy Table.
An award may be made remuneration arrangements will Committee and would typically be shortly following a new appointment.
normally be in line with the structure broadly consistent with the average salary In the first year, the Remuneration set out in the Policy Table for Nonincrease for UK employees.
However, Committee may set different performance Executive Directors.
In the event that larger increases may be considered measures and targets for the LTIP to a Non-Executive Director is required appropriate in certain circumstances.
those of the other Executive Directors, to temporarily take on the role of an For example, where new appointees have depending on the timing and scope Executive Director, their remuneration initial basic salaries set below market of any appointment.
may include any of the elements listed rates, any shortfall will be managed with in the Policy Table for Executive Directors.
phased increases which may be greater Buy-out awards than those offered to the wider workforce To potentially facilitate the recruitment Service contracts and exit payments over a period of two to three years, through the buy-out of existing awards Service contracts normally continue until subject to their development in the role.
and compensation arrangements from the Directors agreed retirement date or their current employer, the Remuneration Pension such other date as the parties agree.
Committee will retain the ability to make A contribution to a defined contribution a one-off buy-out award.
In doing so, the plan or a cash supplement may be offered The policy for executive service Remuneration Committee will take with the relevant maximum not exceeding contracts is that notice periods will account of all relevant factors, including the maximum in the Policy Table.
Paul any performance conditions attached to Forman has a service contract dated Other benefits incentive awards, the likelihood of those 2 January 2017 and Stefan Schellinger As provided to current Executive Directors.
conditions being met, the proportion has a service contract dated 8 October Where necessary the Remuneration of the vesting performance period 2015, both with a notice period of 12 Committee may approve the payment remaining and the form of the award months from either party.
The service of relocation expenses to facilitate eg, cash or shares.
The overriding contracts for the Executive Directors are recruitment, and flexibility is retained for principle will be that any buy-out award available for inspection by shareholders the Company to pay for legal fees and should be of comparable commercial at each AGM and during normal other costs incurred by the individual in value to the compensation which has business hours at the Companys relation to their appointment.
Buy-out awards will registered office.
be made using existing incentive Bonus arrangements where possible, but it may The Remuneration Committees policy The annual bonus described in the be necessary to use the exemption under in relation to termination of service Remuneration Policy Report Table on Listing Rule 9.4.
Shareholders will be contracts is to apply an appropriate page 89 will apply to a new appointee informed of any such payments at the level of mitigation, having regard to all with the relevant maximum not time of appointment.
of the circumstances of the individual, exceeding that for the current Chief the termination of employment, and to Executive: and, in the first year, being In the case of internal appointments or any legal advice received.
The Company pro-rated to reflect the proportion of appointments following the Companys has the right to make a payment in lieu employment during the year.
In the first acquisition of or merger with another of notice such payment being year, the Remuneration Committee may company or business, any variable pay made based on salary and at the set different performance measures and element or legacy arrangements in Remuneration Committees discretion targets for the bonus to those of the respect of the prior role would normally as to the value of benefits, and any other Executive Directors, depending on be allowed to pay-out according to its such payment may be made in the timing and scope of any appointment.
terms, adjusted as relevant, to take into monthly instalments at the Companys account the appointment.
discretion, with a requirement for the individual to make reasonable 94 DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM endeavours to find alternative Under the rules of the LTIP, outstanding Non-Executive Directors employment and may be reduced awards may vest if a participant leaves The Non-Executive Directors do not to take into account any sums earned for specified reasons, including injury, have service contracts and do not during the payment period by way disability, ill health, death, retirement participate in any Company pension, of employment elsewhere.
with the Companys agreement, share or incentive schemes.
In accordance redundancy, or the business or company with best practice, letters of appointment There are no enhanced provisions in which the participant is employed have been issued for all Non-Executive on a change of control.
ceasing to be part of the Group or Directors for an initial period of three In certain circumstances, such as on a change of control.
In these years, but may be terminated by either gross misconduct, the Company may circumstances a participants award party with three months notice.
No terminate employment immediately vests on an appropriate time pro rata compensation is payable on termination, without notice or payment.
basis unless the Remuneration except for fees and expenses accrued Committee decides it is inappropriate to date.
These letters are available for The Remuneration Committee reserves to do so subject to the satisfaction of inspection by shareholders at each AGM the right to make any other payments the relevant performance criteria at the and during normal business hours at the in connection with a Directors cessation normal vesting date with the balance Companys registered office.
of office or employment where the of the award lapsing.
The Remuneration payments are made in good faith in Committee has discretion to determine Relationship between remuneration discharge of an existing legal obligation that the performance period should end of Executive Directors and other or by way of damages for breach of on the date of cessation of employment employees such an obligation or by way of a if it feels this is appropriate.
If, however, The Remuneration Committee is kept compromise or settlement of any claim the termination of employment is not informed of pay and employment arising in connection with the cessation for one of the specified reasons, and conditions in the wider Group and this is of a Directors office or employment.
the Remuneration Committee does not factored into deliberations when setting Any such payments may include, but exercise its discretion to allow an award the Remuneration Policy for Executive are not limited to, paying any fees for to vest, a participants award lapses in Directors.
The Group-wide salary increase outplacement assistance and or the full on date of cessation.
budget and the proposed increase for UK Directors legal and or professional based employees, or employees of such advice fees in connection with his The DASB awards may vest if other jurisdiction within which the Executive cessation of office or employment.
a participant leaves for specified Directors operate or reside, is considered reasons including death, the business The service contract for any new by the Remuneration Committee when or company in which the participant appointment would be on a similar determining any basic salary increase for is employed ceasing to be part of the basis to that described above.
Group, retirement with the agreement The payment of any annual bonus will of the Company or at the discretion of As stated previously, the overall be at the Remuneration Committees the Board.
DASB awards will either vest remuneration package for Executive discretion, based on the individual on the normal vesting date or at the Directors is structured so that the variable circumstances and would usually be point of the participant leaving date performance-related pay element forms a pro-rated for the period of service if deemed a good leaver by the more significant portion compared to pay and may be paid entirely in cash.
This policy is to ensure determining the level of bonus to be there is a clear link between the individual paid, the Remuneration Committee and corporate performance achieved, the may, at its discretion, take into account value this creates for shareholders and performance up to the date of cessation the overall reward to Executive Directors.
or over the financial year as a whole The weighting of variable pay will vary based on appropriate performance throughout the Group based on the measures as determined by the seniority of the individual, the role and Remuneration Committee.
The Essentra Annual Management Bonus Plan also provides a consistent approach for the Executive Directors and Managers within Essentra by aligning the same performance conditions for their bonus plans.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT The Board are awaiting the finalised views External appointments of the Corporate Governance Code to Essentra recognises its senior executives consider the most appropriate future can benefit from serving in a personal approach to employee consultation on capacity as Non-Executive Directors of remuneration decisions.
Essentra currently non-Essentra Group companies.
It is, at manages a number of employee forums the same time, conscious of the corporate including the European Information and governance recommendations that Consultation forum, Diversity & Inclusion Executive Directors should take account Steering Group and employee engagement of the time commitment required by a focus groups.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept non-executive How the views of shareholders are directorships offered by listed companies taken into account and other organisations, which provide The Remuneration Committee has industry experience or public service.
Such consulted with major shareholders and outside appointments are subject to prior investor bodies in the past when material Board approval, taking into account existing changes to the Policy have been proposed, duties, potential conflicts of interest and and this approach will continue in the future time commitments outside of Essentras with the overall aim to maintain an open responsibilities.
Any fees earned from and transparent dialogue.
A thorough these roles may be retained by the consultation process was undertaken with Executive Director.
our major shareholders and representative bodies before this updated Policy Report was submitted for the approval of all shareholders.
96 DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee New Bridge Street, a part of Aon Approval of Good Leaver Committee Chair: Lorraine Trainer Hewitt, who are a member of the recommendations Remuneration Consultants Group and Reviewed AGM voting results on have signed up to its Code of Conduct, Committee membership remuneration related resolutions and meeting attendance provided advice on the Companys long-term share incentive plans including Consultation with shareholders Lorraine Trainer the calculation of the TSR LTIP regarding 2017 LTIP proposals Non-Executive Director 4 4 performance measure.
Fees charged for Tommy Breen Approved revised performance targets Non-Executive Director 4 4 the year under review were 16,880.
Aon for 2017 LTIP award ensuring they are Hewitt also provided actuarial advice to Terry Twigger appropriately stretching SI Non-Executive Director 4 4 the Company for its US pension scheme Mary Reilly and are appointed as the Groups Reviewed the changes to the Non-Executive Director 2 2 insurance broker.
Remuneration Policy to be put forward Peter Hill for approval at the 2018 AGM Non-Executive Director 2 2 The Remuneration Committee continuously Implemented shareholder consultation monitors and reviews the Companys with regard to the new Remuneration relationships with its independent advisers.
Peter Hill stepped down as a NonPolicy The Company is comfortable that no Executive Director on 20 April 2017 conflicts of interest exist.
Approval of revised Terms of Reference at the AGM.
Mary Reilly joined as a for the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2017.
Remuneration Committee Approved Chief Executive and Group 2017 key activities The Company Secretary & General Counsel Finance Director 2018 Bonus rules Reviewed and approved transactional acts as Secretary to the Remuneration bonus arrangements for specific Reviewed current Group Management Committee.
employees and Group Management Committee share ownership and Committee approved new Group Management Other attendees Committee and Executive Directors During the year, the Chairman, Chief Reviewed the 2017 Bonus Plan and the share ownership guidelines Executive, Group Finance Director, Group metrics for the Group Management Human Resources Director and Director of Committee, ensuring targets are Compensation and Benefits were invited appropriately stretching by the Remuneration Committee to Reviewed and confirmed the departure provide views and advice.
Ralf K. terms, particularly non-payment of any Wunderlich also attended as an observer.
bonus relating to 2016 for Colin Day None were present during discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Reviewed salary proposal for Group Management Committee members In addition, services and advice were and agreed 2017 bonus proposal for received from the following independent Group Management Committee as and expert consultants: recommended by the Board Reviewed and confirmed performance Deloitte LLP, who are a member of the targets for LTIPs which vested Remuneration Consultants Group and during 2017 have signed up to its Code of Conduct, provided advice to the Remuneration Approval of the Remuneration Report Committee on the Companys incentive for inclusion in the 2017 Annual Report plans, and on the remuneration of the Approved 2017 UK and US SAYE Executive Directors and other senior invitations executives within the Company.
Fees charged for the year under review are Exercised discretion over Dividend Roll 81,450 Deloitte also provided other Up for Good Leaver incentive awards remuneration and tax services to the Company during 2017.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section of the Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
Total Single Remuneration Table for 2017 audited The remuneration received by Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the 31 December 2016 comparative was as follows: Salary and fees for the year Cash in Bonus cash Long-Term or from date Taxable lieu of and deferred Incentive 1 2 3 of appointment benefits pension shared Plan Other Total Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Paul Forman 2017 625 36 156 450 1,267 2016 4 Stefan Schellinger 2017 360 15 72 186 633 2016 360 14 72 446 9 4 Colin Day 2017 225 11 56 292 2016 675 32 169 876 Non-Executive Directors Paul Lester 2017 250 250 8 2016 215 215 Tommy Breen 2017 52 52 2016 52 52 Lorraine Trainer 2017 63 63 2016 63 63 Terry Twigger 2017 70 70 2016 70 70 6 Mary Reilly 2017 26 26 2016 7 Ralf K. Wunderlich 2017 26 26 2016 5 Peter Hill 2017 17 17 2016 52 52 1 Taxable benefits comprise a fully expensed car and or cash allowance plus private medical insurance and life insurance cover.
2 P aul Forman and Colin Day received a pension contribution of 25% of basic salary while Stefan Schellinger received a pension contribution of 20% of basic salary inclusive of 5% of salary paid into the Company scheme by the Company.
3 50% of any annual bonus is deferred into shares for a period of three years.
There was no bonus in relation to the performance in 2016.
4 The performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP B were not met.
5 Peter Hill stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on the 20 April 2017.
6 Mary Reilly was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on the 1 July 2017.
7 Ralf K. Wunderlich was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on the 1 July 2017.
8 Non-Executive fees paid from date of appointment.
9 The figures shown here relate to the period until 20 April 2017 when Colin Day retired from the Board and ceased employment with the Company.
Subsequent to this, Mr Day received a contractual payment in lieu of notice of 599,911 for the remainder of his notice period based on salary and the value of benefits plus a payment in respect of accrued holiday of 54,519.
His outstanding DASB SAYE awards vested became exercisable upon retirement and his outstanding LTIP awards were time pro-rated and remain subject to three-year performance conditions.
Full details of these termination arrangements are on page 79 of the 2016 Annual Report.
98 DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Outside appointments unaudited Colin Day held the following Non-Executive Director appointments as at his retirement on 20 April 2017: AMEC Foster Wheeler plc, Meggitt PLC and FM Global.
Colin Day received fees of 306,425 in respect of these directorships.
Paul Forman held a Non-Executive Director appointment during the year ended 31 December 2017 for Tate & Lyle Plc.
Paul received fees of 65,950 in respect of this directorship.
Annual bonus audited Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2017, Paul Forman was potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 150% of basic salary and Stefan Schellinger was potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 125% of basic salary.
Bonus payments are normally made one half in cash and one half in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being deferred for three years, in accordance with the rules of the DASB.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the performance measures for the Executive Directors were based upon Adjusted Operating Profit and Adjusted Net Income, Net Working Capital and personal objectives.
Proportion of Performance bonus determined Base Target Stretch Actual % of maximum measure by measure performance performance performance performance bonus payable Adjusted 1 Operating Profit 25% 95.1 100.1 105.1 83.7 0% Adjusted Net 1 Income 25% 67.2 70.7 74.2 60.2 0% of 25% of 50% of bonus payable bonus payable bonus payable Net Working 2 Capital 30% 50 bps 16.5% -50 bps -130bps 30% Personal 20% Chief Executive: objectives Strong performance in strategic review 5 5 Improved external communication of business strategy 5 5 Improvement in customer sentiment and employee engagement 4 5 Good progress in the consistent implementation of health & safety standards globally and significant reduction in lost days 4 5 Total 18 20 18% Group Finance Director: Strong performance in developing an integrated financial model for the Group 5 5 Improved communication of the external business strategy 5 5 Progress against other objectives was more limited 1 10 Total 11 20 11% Total Chief Executive 48% Total Group Finance Director 41% 1 Based on internal forecast at constant exchange rates.
2 Net Working Capital as % of external sales.
A total of 981,251 2016: 894,904 share incentive awards under the LTIP 2015 and the DASB were granted during the year ended 31 December 2017 to Executive Directors and other senior executives on the Group Management Committee.
LTIP awards included in the Total Single Remuneration Table audited All LTIP awards except for 2017 are subject half to a relative TSR performance condition and half to an adjusted EPS performance condition.
The TSR performance conditions are measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts index at the beginning of the performance period, over a three-year performance period from the date of grant.
25% of the TSR element of the awards vests if Essentra is median ranked, increasing to 100% vesting if Essentra is upper quartile ranked.
100 DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM The adjusted EPS performance targets for April 2015 and April 2016 awards are 8.0% pa to 15.0% pa. 25% of the EPS element of the awards vests for achieving the lower target, increasing to 100% vesting for achieving the higher target.
For the 2017 LTIP awards granted to the Executive Directors in 2017, one third of the awards is subject to a TSR performance condition as stated above, one third is subject to an cumulative adjusted operating cash flow threshold of 226m, to a maximum cumulative adjusted operating cash flow of 276m and one third of the awards is subject to an adjusted EPS performance condition, with an adjusted EPS 2019 threshold of 27.4p to a maximum of 32.0p.
The performance outturn for the LTIP awards included in the 2017 Total Single Remuneration Table is summarised below.
The LTIP B awards granted to Stefan Schellinger in April 2015 will vest in April 2018.
The EPS performance period for these awards is complete.
The TSR performance period will end in April 2018 so the figures below are estimates as at 31 December 2017.
Performance condition Condition definition Threshold Maximum Actual outturn Vesting Relative TSR 50% TSR measured against If median rank is If upper quartile -46% 0% of the total award the constituents of achieved, 25% of the rank is achieved Rank 163 out of 183 the FTSE 250 excluding TSR element vests 100% of the TSR companies investment trusts index element vests over the three years from date of grant EPS 50% of the Annualised adjusted 8.0% pa for 15.0% pa for -18.07% 0% total award EPS growth 25% of the EPS 100% of the EPS element to vest element to vest Subject to confirmation of the TSR outcome when the performance period ends in April 2018 it is anticipated that the outturn of the performance conditions for the LTIP grant will result in no LTIP vesting during 2018.
LTIP awards granted during the year audited The following LTIP awards were granted to Executive Directors on 8 September 2017.
Number of awards Share price used to Percentage which vests 1 Executive Type of award granted determine award Face value at threshold 2 Paul Forman Performance share 387,076 5.29 2,047,632 25% Stefan Schellinger Performance share 111,478 5.29 589,719 25% 1 Face value is based on the mid-market closing share price on the day of grant 8 September 2017.
In order to maintain a consistent approach with both our existing and proposed new 2018 Policy, the number of shares to be awarded was determined by the closing share price on the date the Company released its 2016 year-end results 17 February 2017.
This was in line with the previously communicated position not to grant awards until after the Companys strategic review.
2 This award included shares worth 100% of salary as a one off compensatory award.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Save As You Earn scheme audited The Company also operates a Save As You Earn share option scheme SAYE.
Details of the awards granted and outstanding under the SAYE are as follows: Share price Earliest Date of At 1 Jan Granted At 31 Dec Exercise at date of vesting Expiry grant 2017 in year Lapsed 2017 price exercise date date Paul Forman 1 Stefan Schellinger 2 5-year SAYE 01-May-14 2,139 2,139 701.0p 01-Jun-19 01-Dec-19 2 3-year SAYE 01-May-15 1,168 1,168 770.4p 01-May-18 01-Nov-18 3-year SAYE 01-May-17 4,186 4,186 430.0p 01-May-20 01-Nov-20 Colin Day 2 3-year SAYE 01-May-15 2,336 2,336 770.4p 01-Jun-18 01-Dec-18 1 May 2014 and May 2015 SAYE options were granted when Stefan Schellinger was a member of the Group Management Committee.
2 The SAYE plan details and balances as at 1 January 2017 have been restated.
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 December 2017 was 5.30.
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company during the year ranged from 4.09 to 5.82.
Directors shareholdings audited The beneficial interests of the current Directors in office at 31 December 2017, in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: There have been no changes in the Directors interests since 31 December 2017 and the date of this Report.
Beneficially owned LTIP B LTIP 2017 awards DASB SAYE 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 Vested Unvested Unvested Unvested Executive Directors Paul Forman 120,000 387,076 Stefan Schellinger 2,792 19,753 221,858 7,664 4,186 Non-Executive Directors Paul Lester 7,500 7,500 Tommy Breen 10,000 Lorraine Trainer 7,942 8,247 Terry Twigger 7,500 7,500 Ralf K. Wunderlich 42,300 52,300 Mary Reilly Or date of appointment.
Salary used is the prevailing annual salary as at 31 December 2017.
Paul Forman and Stefan Schellinger are required to build up a shareholding worth 200% of salary from the date of appointment.
Beneficially owned shares do not include unvested LTIP awards which do not count towards the limit and share options will only count once they have been exercised.
Current holdings as a percentage of salary are 101% for Paul Forman and 33% for Stefan Schellinger.
The Executive Directors are regarded as being interested in 1,509,936 2016: 1,517,883 ordinary shares in Essentra plc currently held by the Essentra Employee Benefit Trust EBT as they are, together with other Essentra employees, potential beneficiaries of the EBT.
102 DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM These shares are held in order to satisfy employee entitlements relating to the Companys share plans.
As at 31 December 2017, potential and actual share issuance through employee related share plans totalled 1.89%, which is well below UK institutional shareholder limits of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Performance graph unaudited The graph below represents the comparative TSR performance of the Company versus the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts index for the last nine years.
This index has been selected as it is considered the most appropriate published general index in which the Company is a constituent.
Essentras total shareholder return compared against total shareholder return of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts index over nine-year period 1,000p 800p 600p 400p 200p 0p Dec-08 Dec-09 Dec-10 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 103 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
Colin Day retired as Chief Executive on 31 December 2016 and Paul Forman was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2017.
The annual bonus and LTIP figures show the payout as a percentage of the maximum.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive unaudited % change UK Group 1 2 2017 2016 Management 000 000 % change Committee Salary 625 675 -7.4% Benefits 36 32 12.5% Bonus 450 100 100 1 2017 relates to the remuneration of Paul Forman.
2 2016 relates to the remuneration of Colin Day.
The table above shows the percentage movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive and members of the UK Group Management Committee between the current and previous financial year.
UK senior executives have been chosen as the most appropriate comparator group, as they represent those employees eligible to participate in the same reward plans as the Chief Executive.
Group-wide figures can be distorted by different reward practices in different geographies and movements in the number of employees.
Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited 2017 2016 m m % change Staff costs 277.5 272.7 1.7 Distributions to shareholders 54.1 54.0 0.3 Revenue total 1,043.0 1,103.7 -5.5 Adjusted operating profit total 87.4 131.9 -33.7 1 Staff costs are as per note 5 on page 136.
104 DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2018 unaudited Salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance experience of the individual and market movement.
Salaries are reviewed in April each year and the budgeted pay increase for UK employees in 2018 is 2.7%.
Paul Forman has declined a pay increase for 2018 and therefore his basic salary will not increase.
Stefan Schellingers salary for 2018 will increase by 9,700 to 369,700.
This is the first pay increase since Stefans appointment in 2015.
Paul Stefan Forman Schellinger Annual salary effective from 1 April 2018 625,000 369,700 Annual salary effective from 1 April 2017 625,000 360,000 Benefits Executive Directors are provided with the following benefits: Car, fuel or car allowance Private medical insurance with family level cover Life insurance cover of four times basic salary Pension Paul Forman will receive a supplementary payment equal to 25% of annual salary to permit him to secure pension benefits.
Stefan Schellinger will receive a supplementary payment of 20% of his basic salary to permit him to secure pension benefits.
Annual bonuses Each year, the Remuneration Committee reviews the annual bonus, to ensure the performance measures and targets remain appropriate and aligned with the Companys short-term strategy, while remaining within the appropriate risk profile.
Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2018, Paul Forman is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 150% of basic salary and Stefan Schellinger is potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 125% of basic salary.
It is an important principle of Essentras pay philosophy that the structure of pay should complement and support business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee has determined the performance measures for 2018 incentive plan that are consistent with current strategic priorities as shown below: Performance criteria Weighting % Adjusted Operating Profit 50.0 Net Working Capital 30.0 Personal objectives 20.0 105 ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee believes that Adjusted Operating Profit and Net Working Capital targets are commercially sensitive, and will not disclose the targets on a prospective basis.
The targets and actual performance against them will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2018 Remuneration Report.
In addition to the financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has also set personal performance targets for Paul Forman and Stefan Schellinger, which are designed to deliver progress by the Company towards its strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion, within a three-year period after the determination of the bonus, to withhold or recover annual cash bonuses or DASB awards through malus and clawback provisions in specified circumstances.
These circumstances take into account where the original bonus was paid to a greater extent than it should have done, due to a material misstatement in the Companys Financial Statements or due to an error in assessing the applicable performance conditions or if there has been serious misconduct by an individual or if there has been serious reputational damage to the Company or a relevant business unit.
Essentra LTIP An award granted under LTIP consists of a conditional right to receive shares in the Company, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
The following LTIP awards are intended to be granted to Executive Directors during 2018.
Paul Forman Stefan Schellinger The award to be granted in April 2018 as annual award 200% 150% A share award under LTIP will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its award and an additional two-year holding period, and may only be exercised to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
The awards are structured as nil cost options.
For awards to be granted to the Executive Directors in 2018, one third of the awards will be subject to a TSR performance condition, one third will be subject to cash flow and one third of the awards will be subject to an adjusted EPS performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these conditions provide appropriate alignment with the strategic priorities.
In particular there will be a greater emphasis on balance sheet management.
The TSR performance condition assesses Essentras TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts index.
Performance is measured over three years from the time of grant.
25% of the TSR element vests for median performance, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance or above.
The Remuneration Committees determination of the targets for TSR, EPS and Cumulative Adjusted Operating Cash Flow performance measures are as follows: Performance Conditions 25% vests at threshold: 100% vests at maximum Relative TSR Relative to FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Threshold is median: maximum is upper quartile Adjusted EPS 2018 - 2020 Threshold is 6%: maximum is 15%.
Cumulative Adjusted Operating Cash Flow Threshold is 252m: maximum is 292m.
Awards granted under the LTIP 2015 are subject to malus and clawback provisions for a period of up to three years following the vesting date of the award.
Potential circumstances in which the malus and clawback provisions may be applied are consistent with those applying to annual bonus awards as described above.
106 DIRECTORS REPORT | ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM Non-Executive Director fees The fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee, while fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
Senior Independent Additional fee Non-Executive Non-Executive for chairing Chairman Director Director a Committee Annual fee effective from 1 January 2018 250,000 52,000 7,000 11,000 Annual fee effective from 1 January 2017 250,000 52,000 7,000 11,000 Statement of shareholder voting unaudited The results of shareholder voting in relation to the approval of the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2017 AGM were as follows: Annual Report on Remuneration No.
of votes % Votes cast in favour 209,563,401 93.53 Votes cast against 14,386,865 6.42 Total votes cast 223,950,266 Abstentions 856,281 This Report of the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board LORRAINE TRAINER Remuneration Committee Chair 2 March 2018 107
