CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report CHAIRMANS SUMMARYSTATEMENT David Wild, CEO and a bonus of 167,906 Dear shareholder, becoming payable to Rachel Osborne, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the CFO, twothirds ofwhich will be settled Board, the Directors remuneration report in cash and the remaining onethird settled for the year ended 31 December 2017. in shares anddeferred for two years.
Inthis report, we review the Groups performance in the year and explain the In 2015, LTIP awards were made to CHAIR pay which resulted for the Executive DavidWild over 227,679 Ordinary shares Directors, we explain the fees we paid to Kevin Higgins after adjustment for the threeforone the nonexecutive Directors and we also subdivision of shares effective on set out how we intend to implement our 27June 2016.
The LTIP awards were remuneration policy in2018.
subject to stretching performance MEMBERS targets, with 50% of the award being Performance and subject to EPS growth and 50% subject to a TSR target.
Over the performance remunerationfor 2017 period, underlying EPS grew by 2017 was a year of continued operational 75.5%and the Companys share price and strategic progress.
Despite a more performance was above the median challenging consumer backdrop, we relative to the constituents of the FTSE continued to achieve a good rate of growth 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
in our core UK market, particularly in the Accordingly the performance conditions second half of the year.
UK likeforlike Steve Barber for the award were met partially and will growth was slower than in recent years, result in 90.945% of the awards vesting, but we opened a record 95 new stores, subject to continued employment to the supported by the attractive returns for vesting date.
We also took significant steps to build the platform for future As Rachel Osborne joined as Chief profitable growth: we completed the Financial Officer in October 2016, she bulk of our investment in our new Supply received an LTIP award to compensate Chain Centre in Warrington, providing her for sharebased incentives forfeited capacity for our 1,600 UK store target: Helen Keays from her previous employer as a we took majority ownership in all of our consequence of joining Dominos Pizza.
Nordic markets: and we accelerated our The award comprised two tranches.
plans for Norway with the acquisition of Thefirst tranche of this award vested the number three pizza operator, inNovember 2017 and was not subject DollyDimples.
The secondtranche was subject to the same Reflecting 2017s trading performance, performance criteria that applied to the PBT element of the annual bonus the2015 LTIP awards that were made being 70% of the total for the CEO and toDavid Wild.
Therefore, 90.945% of 80% of the total for the CFO wasmet thesecond tranche of the award will partiallyand the Remuneration Committee vestinJune 2018, subject to assessed that the personal performance continuedemployment.
objectives being the balancing 30% of the total for the CEO and the balancing 20% The Committee is satisfied that the of the total for the CFO were partially remuneration outcomes for David and achieved for the CEO and partially Rachel for the 2017 financial year are achieved for the CFO.
This resulted in a fullyjustified, in light of the business payment of 50.91% of the maximum for andindividual performance during the the CEO and 41.3% of the maximum for year, and are in the best interests of the CFO.
This will result in a bonus of theCompany and shareholders.
259,663 becoming payable in cash to 46 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTRODUCTION This report sets out the Companys Implementation of Remuneration policy report policyon Directors remuneration as remuneration for 2018 This part of our Directors remuneration wellas information on remuneration paid The Companys current remuneration report sets out the remuneration policy toDirectors inthe financial year ended policy was approved by shareholders at forthe Company which was approved 31December 2017.
The report complies the2016 AGM and will continue to apply byshareholders at the 2016 AGM on with the requirements ofthe Large and for the 2018 financial year.
Mediumsized Companies and Groups be implemented as follows in 2018: Accounts and Reports Amendment Policy overview Regulations 2013 the Regulations the CEOs base salary, which is frozen In setting the remuneration policy for the andhasbeen prepared in line with the forthe threeyear policy period, Executive Directors, the Remuneration recommendations of the Code and the remains at 510,000 p. a. : the Chief Committee took into account the following: UKListing Authority Listing Rules Financial Officers salary shall remain theListing Rules.
at 325,000, her salary at the date of the need to set appropriate remuneration appointment, until 2019: policies and packages which will attract, The report has been divided into retain and motivate Executive Directors the annual bonus opportunity remains twosections: and senior management acting in the at100% of salary for the CEO and Directors remuneration policy the longterm interests of the Company but 125% of salary for the CFO: revised policy was approved at the 2016 avoid paying more than is necessary: AGM and became effective on that date.
the CEO will not receive an award due setting base salary at or below comparable The substantive terms of the approved to the single upfront grant of market rates but weighting a significant remuneration policy have been included performance shares in 2016 under the proportion of total remuneration towards forease ofreference: and 2016 LTIP, which replaces three annual variable pay with an abovemarket incentive grants over the period 20162018.
Annual report on remuneration this, opportunity linked to the delivery of truly Thefirst tranche capable of vesting together with the Chairmans annual exceptional performance: shall be in 2019: and statement, will be subject to a single having demanding short and longterm the CFO will receive an award advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
The performance targets that are specific, underthe2012 LTIP with a face value report sets out the remuneration paid measurable and aligned fully with the of125% of salary in 2018.
This award orpayable inrelation to the year ended Companys business objectives to shall vest subject to stretching EPS 31December 2017 and how we intend to provide stronglinkage between andTSR performance targets and implement the policy for the year ahead.
remuneration and performance: continued employment.
Those parts of the report which have creating a strong alignment between the beenaudited by Ernst & Young LLP Shareholders views interests of senior Executives and the areclearly identified.
The Committee continues to take an delivery of value to shareholders: activeinterest in shareholders views andlooks forward to maintaining an open avoiding creating excessive risks in the and transparent dialogue in the future.
achievement of performance targets: and Welook forward to your support at the conducting periodic external 2018 AGM and welcome any feedback comparisons to examine current from the Companys shareholders.
markettrends and practices and equivalent roles in similar companies, Kevin Higgins taking into account their size, business Chairman of the complexity, international scope and  relative performance.
7 March 2018 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Reflects the responsibility level and Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis n a complexityofthe role the exception of the CEO whose salary will be except for David Wild, CEO, as explained in the Operation frozen at 510,000 until 2019 for the threeyear column with the rate of increase in percentage terms typically Reflects skills and experience over time duration of the policy following his participation linked tothose of the wider workforce in the 2016 LTIP Provides an appropriate level of basicfixed If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change income avoiding excessive risk arising from Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels ofscope in a role, a material sustained change in the size and overreliance on variable income incompanies with similar characteristics and orcomplexity of the Company or very strong performance may sector comparators merit base salary increases beyond those of the wider workforce Set in the context of pay and employment If pay is set at a discount to the Companys normal policy conditions in the Group onappointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards an appropriate rate using increases above those of Salaries will typically be targeted at or below thewider workforce based on performance and experience therelevant market rate Pension Provides marketcompetitive, yet Defined contribution or cash supplement Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement n a costeffective retirement benefits orpayment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to HMRCapproved salary sacrifice arrangement 15%ofbasic salary Opportunity for Executives to contribute to Salary sacrifice for employee contribution their own retirement plan Other benefits Provide costeffective insured benefits Benefits are provided through thirdparty Familylevel private medical insurance cover provided n a tosupport the individual and their family providers and include medical and life insurance Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary Access to company car to facilitate Company cars or cash equivalents provided Company car or cash allowance in lieu effectivetravel The Committee may offer Executive Directors The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, other employee benefits from time to time on basedon the cost from thirdparty providers broadly the same terms as provided to the widerworkforce Annual performance bonus Incentivise annual delivery of financial Up to twothirds of the annual bonus is paid The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic andoperational goals linked to the incash and onethird deferred into shares that David Wilds bonus opportunity is 100% of salary as he targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis Companysstrategy will vest after two years and are subject to participated inthe 2016 LTIP The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics forfeiture, with the exception of participants The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary e. g. underlying PBT with a graduated scale set around the target inthe 2016 LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which are aligned to the key objectives from year to year Dividends which accrue on vested shares may bepayable A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold performance level.
In relation to financial targets, 20% Not pensionable ofthis part of the bonus becomes payable for achieving thethreshold Clawback provisions apply performance target.
In relation to any strategic orindividual measures used, it is not always practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective.
Stretching targets drive operational efficiency Where it is, a similar proportion ofthe bonus becomes payable for and influence the level of returns that should achieving the threshold performance level as for financial targets ultimately be delivered to shareholders through share price and dividends Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year willbe included in the relevant Directors remuneration report 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude Annual grant of market value options Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary in Longterm incentive awards vest based on threeyear performance 2012 LTIP eligibility for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, orperformance shares performance shares against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR until 2019 performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion Subject to performance conditions measured The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance Aligned to main strategic objectives of over three years shares at up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% delivering sustained profitable growth of a performance share award Clawback provisions apply Aids retention of senior management A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold Dividends which accrue may be paid on performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum Creates alignment with shareholders and vestedshares performance there is graduated vesting between these points provides focus on increasing the Companys share price over the medium term The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets is not less than three financial years 48 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Reflects the responsibility level and Salaries will typically be reviewed annually with Salaries will typically be eligible for increases on an annual basis n a complexityofthe role the exception of the CEO whose salary will be except for David Wild, CEO, as explained in the Operation frozen at 510,000 until 2019 for the threeyear column with the rate of increase in percentage terms typically Reflects skills and experience over time duration of the policy following his participation linked tothose of the wider workforce in the 2016 LTIP Provides an appropriate level of basicfixed If there are significant changes in responsibility, a change income avoiding excessive risk arising from Salary levels take periodic account of pay levels ofscope in a role, a material sustained change in the size and overreliance on variable income incompanies with similar characteristics and orcomplexity of the Company or very strong performance may sector comparators merit base salary increases beyond those of the wider workforce Set in the context of pay and employment If pay is set at a discount to the Companys normal policy conditions in the Group onappointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards an appropriate rate using increases above those of Salaries will typically be targeted at or below thewider workforce based on performance and experience therelevant market rate Pension Provides marketcompetitive, yet Defined contribution or cash supplement Monthly employer contribution to a pension arrangement n a costeffective retirement benefits orpayment of a cash allowance in lieu of a pension up to HMRCapproved salary sacrifice arrangement 15%ofbasic salary Opportunity for Executives to contribute to Salary sacrifice for employee contribution their own retirement plan Other benefits Provide costeffective insured benefits Benefits are provided through thirdparty Familylevel private medical insurance cover provided n a tosupport the individual and their family providers and include medical and life insurance Life insurance cover of four times multiple of salary Access to company car to facilitate Company cars or cash equivalents provided Company car or cash allowance in lieu effectivetravel The Committee may offer Executive Directors The value of insured benefits will vary from year to year, other employee benefits from time to time on basedon the cost from thirdparty providers broadly the same terms as provided to the widerworkforce Annual performance bonus Incentivise annual delivery of financial Up to twothirds of the annual bonus is paid The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, but Bonuses will be subject to a combination of financial and strategic andoperational goals linked to the incash and onethird deferred into shares that David Wilds bonus opportunity is 100% of salary as he targets that are set by the Committee on an annual basis Companysstrategy will vest after two years and are subject to participated inthe 2016 LTIP The majority of the bonus will be measured against financial metrics forfeiture, with the exception of participants The CFO has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary e. g. underlying PBT with a graduated scale set around the target inthe 2016 LTIP whose bonus will be settled entirely in cash A minority of the bonus may be set based on strategic targets which are aligned to the key objectives from year to year Dividends which accrue on vested shares may bepayable A minority of each element will be payable for achieving the threshold performance level.
Stretching targets drive operational efficiency Where it is, a similar proportion ofthe bonus becomes payable for and influence the level of returns that should achieving the threshold performance level as for financial targets ultimately be delivered to shareholders through share price and dividends Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year willbe included in the relevant Directors remuneration report 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan Participating in the 2016 LTIP will preclude Annual grant of market value options Maximum annual opportunity of 200% of salary in Longterm incentive awards vest based on threeyear performance 2012 LTIP eligibility for future grants under the 2012 LTIP, orperformance shares performance shares against a challenging range of financial targets and relative TSR until 2019 performance set and assessed by the Committee at its discretion Subject to performance conditions measured The normal policy is to grant annual awards of performance Aligned to main strategic objectives of over three years shares at up to 175% of salary to each Executive Director Financial targets will determine vesting in relation to at least 50% delivering sustained profitable growth of a performance share award Clawback provisions apply Aids retention of senior management A maximum of 15% of any award vests for achieving the threshold Dividends which accrue may be paid on performance level with 100% of the awards being earned for maximum Creates alignment with shareholders and vestedshares performance there is graduated vesting between these points provides focus on increasing the Companys share price over the medium term The performance period for financial targets and relative TSR targets is not less than three financial years Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Executive Director policy table continued Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan Aligned to main strategic objectives Single grant of performance shares to Individual limit of 1,602,000 performance shares covering the Onethird of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR 2016 LTIP  profitable coverthree years of normal annual grants life of the policy condition measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment longterm growth ofperformance shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018 trusts.
15% ofthis element will vest for median performance rising up to full vesting for an upper quartile ranking or better Aids retention of senior management Awards vest in three tranches three, fourandfive years after the start of the performance period Onethird will be set against stretching EPS targets and the final Creates alignment with shareholders and third against superstretch EPS targets, all using 2015 EPS as the provides focus on increasing earnings and the Subject to: i performance conditions measured base year Companys share price over the medium term over three, four and five years: and ii the absolute TSR underpin mechanism For threshold levels of performance, 10% of stretch EPSlinked awards and 0% of superstretch EPSlinked awards will vest Clawback provisions apply Once the potential vesting outcomes are known, an underpin Dividends which accrue may be paid on vested mechanism will apply which only permits the release of vested shares up to their vesting date and on vested awards in proportion to the extent that TSR has increased in shares that are subject to a holding period absolute terms, up to a 100% absolute TSR target.
Awards will onlybe released in full if our absolute TSR has increased by 100%.
A holding period applies which prevents thesale Theunderpin will be reviewed every sixmonths over the sevenyear of any vested shares before the fifthanniversary life of the award of the start of the performance period except to fund tax orsimilar obligations Share ownership guidelines To provide alignment between Executives Executives are expected to retain shares At least 150% of salary holding for Executive Directors, with n a andshareholders fromthe vesting of options and awards 200% for participants in the 2016 LTIP onanaftertax basis to build and maintain To encourage a focus on sustainable ashareholding equivalent to the guideline longterm performance multiple of salary within five years of joining Non-executive Director policy table Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Non-executive Director fees Reflects the value of the individuals skills Chairmans fee set by the Remuneration The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to andexperience Committee.
Nonexecutive Directors fees set the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies bythe Board of comparable size and complexity Recognises expected time commitments andresponsibilities Fees are normally reviewed biennially, The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the threeyear effective1January period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time Takes into account periodic external reviews commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for nonexecutive against companies with similar characteristics Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and sector comparators and complexity Set in the context of time commitments Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary andresponsibilities to do so, to appoint a new Chairman or nonexecutive Director of an appropriate calibre A base fee is provided to all nonexecutive Directors with supplemental fees payable for chairing the subCommittees and for holding theSenior Independent Director position Nonexecutive Directors do not participate inany annual bonus, share incentive plans orpension arrangements Nonexecutive Directors shall be reimbursed forany expenses on a gross of tax basis incurred in the course of carrying out their role which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC orequivalent body 50 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Element and maximum Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan Aligned to main strategic objectives Single grant of performance shares to Individual limit of 1,602,000 performance shares covering the Onethird of each tranche will vest subject to a relative TSR 2016 LTIP  profitable coverthree years of normal annual grants life of the policy condition measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment longterm growth ofperformance shares in 2016, 2017 and 2018 trusts.
Nonexecutive Directors fees set the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies bythe Board of comparable size and complexity Recognises expected time commitments andresponsibilities Fees are normally reviewed biennially, The fee levels will be eligible for increases during the threeyear effective1January period that the remuneration policy operates from the effective date to ensure they appropriately recognise the time Takes into account periodic external reviews commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for nonexecutive against companies with similar characteristics Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and sector comparators and complexity Set in the context of time commitments Flexibility is retained to go over the above fee levels, if necessary andresponsibilities to do so, to appoint a new Chairman or nonexecutive Director of an appropriate calibre A base fee is provided to all nonexecutive Directors with supplemental fees payable for chairing the subCommittees and for holding theSenior Independent Director position Nonexecutive Directors do not participate inany annual bonus, share incentive plans orpension arrangements Nonexecutive Directors shall be reimbursed forany expenses on a gross of tax basis incurred in the course of carrying out their role which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC orequivalent body Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report Balance between fixed and variable pay continued The performancerelated elements ofremuneration are dependent upon the achievement of outcomes that are important drivers of sustainable growth forthe Operation of the annual bonus business and therefore the creation of value for shareholders.
The remuneration package plan and LTIP policy offered to Executive Directors by the Company is therefore more heavily performance The Committee will operate the annual bonus related than that operated in comparatively sized leisure companies and companies in plan, the 2012 LTIP and the 2016 LTIP scheme the upper half of the FTSE 250 more generally, particularly at higher levels of performance.
in accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules Illustration of  and HMRC requirements where relevant.
The chart below illustrates the total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer and Within these rules, the Remuneration Chief Financial Officer based on the current policy under three different scenarios Committee is required to retain a number minimum, target and maximum.
Given that the 2016 LTIP covers three grants, we of discretions to ensure an effective operation have applied a value to each tranche to arrive at an annualised value.
and administration of these plans.
These 3,500 discretions are consistent with standard 2,931 3,000 market practice and include but are not 2,500 limited to : 2,000 63% who participates in the plans: 1,500 1,203 when awards are granted and or paid: 945 1,000 12% 654 34% the size of an award and or a payment 17% 575 9% 27% 390 34% subject to the limits stated in the policy 500 31% 100% 61% 20% table above : 100% 60% 32% 0 Below target Target Maximum Below target Target Maximum how to determine the level of vesting: CEO David Wild CFO Rachel Osborne how to deal with a change of control Fixed pay Bonus LTIP orrestructuring of the Group: Assumptions Minimum comprises fixed pay being thevalue of 2018 base salary, 2017 benefits and a how to determine a good bad leaver pension contribution in line with the approved policy.
forincentive plan purposes: how to determine any adjustments Target for David Wild, minimum plus abonus payout of 50% of the maximum 50% required in certain circumstances of salary plus threshold vesting ofone tranche of the 2016 LTIP under the relative TSR e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, and stretch EPS parts of the award.
It assumes no vesting under the superstretch EPS events and special dividends : and targets.
The absolute TSR underpin mechanism assumes 75% vesting is achieved.
For reviewing the performance conditions Rachel Osborne, minimum plus a bonus payout of 50% ofthe maximum 62.5% of salary range of targets, measures and weightings and threshold vesting under the LTIP.
for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from Maximum minimum plus maximum bonus.
For David Wild, it assumes full vesting of one year to year.
tranche of the 2016 LTIP and achievement of the absolute TSR underpin.
For Rachel If certain events occur, such as a material Osborne, it assumes full vesting of an LTIP with a face value of 125% of salary.
acquisition or the divestment of a Group This has been modelled at a share price of 345.7p, being that in force on the last day ofthe business, the original performance conditions 2017 financial year.
No account has been taken of any prospective share pricechanges.
may no longer be appropriate.
Therefore, the Remuneration Committee retains the most appropriate measure of longterm Choice of performance metrics discretion to make adjustments to the financial performance.
It is also used by the The Company is a growth business, and our targets and or set different measures and Board to determine success in executing investments in supply chain, digital innovation alter weightings as they deem necessary to our strategy.
and the customer experience are all designed ensure the conditions achieve their original to improve the profitability of the overall system, purpose, are appropriate in the revised Relative TSR helps align managements and reach new customers and drive repeat business circumstances and, in any event, are not shareholders interests, since the Executives from existing customers.
However, neither materially less difficult to satisfy.
will only be rewarded to the extent that the system sales nor statutory revenue are appropriate Company delivers a return to shareholders Any use of the above discretions would, performance measures, because the former is above the median company of comparable where relevant, be explained in the Directors significantly influenced by franchisees, and size, with full vesting on this measure remuneration report and may, where the latter is affected by the volatility of food requiring top quartile performance.
appropriate, be the subject ofprior consultation costs.
As a result, underlying profit before tax with the Companys major shareholders.
is used as the main performance metric in the Absolute TSR helps address the issue annual bonus plan, as this captures both the ofbeing the best performer in a falling Sharesettled incentive awards and any growth and the efficiency of the business.
A market, by requiring that there has been arrangements agreed prior to the effective combination of relative TSR and growth in EPS apositive growth in TSR over the date of this policy will remain eligible to vest or are used for the 2012 LTIP, as we believe these measurement period.
pay out based on their original award terms.
are the longer term performance metrics that This includes any awards granted under the are most relevant to shareholders.
All incentives are capped in order Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP or the 2012 thatinappropriate risk taking is neither LTIP scheme.
Inaddition, all arrangements Underlying EPS measures the Companys encouraged nor rewarded.
For financial previously disclosed in prior years Directors success in delivering longterm profit growth, targets, a sliding scale is applied, with a remuneration reports will remain eligible to a key contributor to the Companys valuation, very modest amount being payable for vest or become payable on their original terms.
and is considered by the Committee to be the threshold levels of performance.
52 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 000 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A number of the Companys nonfinancial The Committee believes that broadbased How shareholders views are strategic objectives have been incorporated employee share ownership provides a key taken into account into the annual bonus for Executive Directors element in retention and motivation in the The Committee considers shareholder and will be applied on an individual basis wider workforce.
Longterm incentives are feedback received around the AGM and for a minority of the overall bonus opportunity.
provided through the Groups discretionary analyses the votes cast on the relevant These objectives will also be measured on a share schemes to selected Executives and items of business.
This feedback, plus sliding scale of performance.
The Company also offers an views received during meetings with HMRCregistered savingsrelated share institutional shareholders and their The Committee will review the continued option scheme for all UKbased employees representative bodies, is considered as appropriateness of the annual bonus with more than six months service, part of the Companys annual review of and, if applicable, 2012 LTIP performance including Executive Directors.
The Remuneration conditions on an annual basis to ensure Committee also consults with its key that they remain aligned to the Companys In the UK and Ireland, all newly appointed shareholders whenever appropriate.
The Committee will make necessary employees, including Executive Directors, Acomprehensive consultation exercise changes to the weightings of measures are eligible to join a defined contribution was undertaken during early 2016 with and or introduce new measures which they pension plan, whereby they make a shareholders views being reflected in the believe would provide a closer link to the contribution to the nominated plan, with the revised policy, which has been in effect business strategy within the confines of the Company typically contributing double the since the 2016 AGM.
The Committee values policy detailed above.
Shareholder dialogue amount paid by the employee.
In other feedback from its shareholders and seeks would take place, as appropriate, should territories, pension provision varies and to maintain a continued open dialogue.
there be any material change of emphasis canbe contributions to state schemes, Investors who wish to discuss remuneration in relation to current practices.
occupational plans or personal pension issues should contact the Company Secretary.
arrangements inwhich the employing company makescontributions.
How employees pay is taken Service contracts intoaccount andpolicyonexit How is risk managed in relation to Pay and conditions elsewhere in the The Committee reviews the contractual Groupwere considered when finalising the short and long-term incentives?
terms for new Executive Directors to current policy for the Executive Directors.
The Committee believes that the ensure that these reflect best practice.
In particular, the Committee is updated on consideration and management of risk salary increases for the general employee isimportant when formulating and then Service contracts are normally entered population, Companywide benefit provision, operating appropriate remuneration intoon a rolling basis, with notice periods level of annual bonuses and staff participation structures notably the performance given by the employing company limited to in longterm incentive schemes, so it is criteria for senior management.
Should notice be served aware of how the total remuneration of the members of the Committee are also by either party, the Executive can continue Executive Directors compares with the average members of the Audit Committee, whose to receive basic salary, benefits and pension total remuneration of employees generally.
Chairman is also a member of the for the duration of their notice period, during Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration which time the relevant Group company The Committee does not formally Committee has a good understanding of may require the individual to continue to ordirectly consult with employees on the key risks facing the business and the fulfil their current duties or may assign a Executive pay but does receive periodic relevance of these to the remuneration period of garden leave.
An Executive updates from the Group HR Director.
The strategy, most particularly when setting Directors service contract may be terminated Committee is also informed of the results targets for performancerelated pay.
without notice and without any further of employee engagement surveys, which payment or compensation, save for sums do not contain any specific questions In line with the Investment Associations accrued up to the date of termination, on related to Executive Director remuneration, Guidelines on Responsible Investment the occurrence of certain events of gross but the most recent of which indicated that Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee misconduct.
If the Company terminates the most employees show high levels of ensures that the incentive structure for employment of an Executive Director in engagement and feel that reward is an Executive Directors and senior management breach of contract, compensation is limited important attribute of their job.
will not raise environmental, social or to salary due for any unexpired notice period governance ESG risks by inadvertently and any amount assessed by the Committee motivating irresponsible behaviour and How the Executive Directors as representing the value of other contractual remuneration design can be flexed to address remuneration policy relates benefits which would have been received ESG issues when appropriate.
The Committee totheGroup during the unexpired notice period.
has due regard to issues of general operational The remuneration policy described above risk when structuring incentives.
The policy for any new Executive Director provides an overview of the structure that would be based on terms that are consistent operates for the most senior Executives The clawback provisions in respect with these provisions but will also include inthe Group, with a significant element ofannual bonuses and longterm share the ability for the Company to make a payment ofremuneration dependent on Company plans also provide the Committee in lieu of notice limited to a maximum value and individual performance.
withamechanism to recover monies in of 12 months base salary, pension and benefits.
certaincircumstances, for example, if a A lower aggregate level of incentive payment Payments in lieu of notice may be made in misstatement of results is identified.
Share applies below Executive Director level, monthly instalments and would reduce ownership guidelines and the design of the driven by market comparatives, internal proportionately to the extent that alternative 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP help to ensure that relativities and the potential impact of the employment income was received i. e. the Executive Directors have a strong personal role.
The vast majority of the Groups phased payments, subject to mitigation.
focus on longterm sustainable performance, employees participate in an annual bonus heavily driven by the relative and absolute plan, with the limits and performance returns delivered to shareholders.
conditions varying according to job grade.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued Service contracts andpolicy on exit continued David Wild, the Chief Executive Officer, hasa rolling contract dated 30 April 2014.
Rachel Osborne, the Chief Financial Officer, has a rolling contract dated 10 October 2016.
Both Executives contracts are terminable on six months notice from either party and include payment in lieu of notice provisions as per the policy detailed on page 53.
Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable.
In the event of a change ofcontrol of the Group, there is no enhancement to contractual terms.
In summary, the contractual provisions for the Executive Directors are as follows: Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months or less Maximum termination payment Base salary plus benefits and pension, subject to mitigation for new Directors Remuneration entitlements A pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with vesting for outstanding share awards in certain circumstances see below In all cases performance targets would apply Change of control As on termination Any sharebased entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Companys LTIP schemes or bonus entitlement under the annual performance bonus will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
With regard to the circumstances under which the Executive Directors might leave service, these are described below with a description of the anticipated payments: Departure on agreed terms e. g. asked to leave due to revised Remuneration element Bad leaver e. g. resignation skill sets required for role Good leaver e. g. ill health, retirement Salary in lieu Salary for proportion of notice Up to a maximum of 100% of salary ofnoticeperiod period served Pension and benefits Provided for proportion of notice Up to one years worth of pension and benefits period served e. g. redundancy Possible payment of pension and insured benefits triggered by the leaver event this would be governed by the terms of the benefits provided Bonus If resigns, reduced pro rata to Reduced pro rata to reflect proportion of bonus year reflect proportion of bonus year elapsed provided performance conditions met employed provided performance conditions met at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Treatment will If dismissed for cause, none payable normallyfall between Longterm Lapse Up to full vesting, based on performance tested good leaver and bad  over the full performance period or to the date leaver treatment, 2012 LTIP ofcessation at the discretion of the Committee subject to the discretion of the Where awards are granted as market value Remuneration options, the award may also be reduced pro rata Committee and the atthe discretion of the Committee to reflect the terms of any proportion of the performance period elapsed to termination agreement the date of cessation Where awards are granted as performance shares, awards will be subject to a pro rata reduction unless the Committee determines otherwise Longterm Lapse Awards will normally continue to be capable of  vesting subject to performance measured at the 2016 LTIP normal calculation date or until the absolute TSR condition has been satisfied prior to the awards expiry and a pro rata reduction by reference to the proportion of the relevant three, four and fiveyear performance periods that have expired, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, on an exceptional basis Other payments None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement  54 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-executive Director remuneration The nonexecutive Directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office.
With the exception of Colin Halpern, who is nominated to the Board pursuant to a contractual agreement, each of the nonexecutive Directors is appointed for a fixed term of three years, renewable for a further threeyear term if agreed and subject to annual reelection by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the nonexecutive Directors: Date most recent Expected date of Appointment date term commenced expiry of current term Stephen Hemsley 1 January 2008 30 March 2016 30 March 2019 as Executive Chairman as nonexecutive Chairman Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling annual n a Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2017 20 September 2020 Ebbe Jacobsen 31 January 2014 31 January 2017 31 January 2020 Kevin Higgins 8 September 2014 8 September 2017 8 September 2020 Steve Barber 1 July 2015 1 July 2015 1 July 2018 Recruitment and promotion policy When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Salary levels will be set based on the experience, knowledge and skills of the individual and in the context of market rates for equivalent roles in companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee will also consider Group relativities when setting base salary levels The Committee may set initial base salaries below the perceived market rate with the aim to make multiyear staged increases to achieve the desired market position over time.
Where necessary these increases may be above those of the wider workforce, but will be subject to continued development in the role Benefits Benefits will be as provided to current Executive Directors The Committee will consider meeting the cost of certain reasonable relocation expenses and legal fees asnecessary Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at a level no more as a percentage of salary than current Executive Directors Annual bonus The annual bonus would be operated in line with that set out in the policy table for current Executive Directors For a new joiner, the bonus would be prorated for the period of service Due to the timing or nature of the appointment, the Committee may determine it necessary to set different modified performance conditions for the first year of appointment Long-term incentives Participation will be in accordance with the information set out in the policy table Awards may be made shortly after an appointment, subject to prohibited periods Any new appointment would be eligible to participate in the allemployee share option arrangements onthe same terms as all other employees For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant Additional incentives The Committee will assess whether it is necessary to buy out remuneration which would be forfeited onappointment froma previous employer The Committee will, where possible, seek to offer a direct replacement award taking into account the structure, quantum, time horizons and relevant performance conditions which would impact on the expected value of the remuneration to be forfeited The Committee will use the existing remuneration plans where possible, although it may be necessary togrant outside of these schemes using exemptions permitted under the Listing Rules External appointments The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become nonexecutive Directors in other companies and that these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
Subject to preagreed conditions, and with prior approval of the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a nonexecutive director in another listed company.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such service.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Role and membership The Committee is responsible for the Chairmans and the Executive Directors remuneration and also oversees the remuneration packages of other senior Executives.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the nonexecutive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are consulted on proposals relating to theremuneration of relevant senior Executives and, when appropriate, are invited by theRemuneration Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and can be found on the Groupswebsite, http: investors.
TheRemuneration Committee normally meets up to four times in each year and additionally ascircumstances dictate.
During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance atthemeetings were: Name Member since Attendance Kevin Higgins Chairman 22 September 2014 3 Helen Keays 22 September 2014 2 Steve Barber 16 September 2015 3 External advisers Throughout the year, New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon plc, was retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide itwith relevant consultancy services.
NBS was selected on an arms length basis and appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
NBS is asignatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and did not provide any other services to the Company except in relation tosenior management remuneration matters.
The total fees for NBS services in the year were 42,368 excluding VAT.
The Remuneration Committee reviews its relationship with external advisers on a regular basis and, noting that NBS does not provide any other services tothe Group, continues to believe that there are no conflicts of interest.
What has the Remuneration Committee done during the year?
The Remuneration Committee met threetimes during the year to consider and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items including the following: A Management of  reviewed and approved Executive Directors and senior management basesalaries andbenefits: reviewed yearend business performance and performancelinked rewards in order todetermine annual bonus payouts and vesting of longterm incentives: approved longterm incentive awards made in 2017 under the 2012 LTIP: and reviewed the Chairmans fees.
B Governance of the  reviewed and approved the Directors remuneration report: amendments to 2012 LTIP to implement a twoyear holding period post vesting and more stringent recovery and withholding provisions: monitored guidance and directional themes from institutional shareholder bodies inrelation to new reporting requirements: reviewed 2017 AGM results and feedback from institutional shareholders: and confirmed that the remuneration arrangements are not anticipated toinadvertently encourage any unduerisk taking.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2018 Base salary As disclosed in last years remuneration report and agreed as part of the 2016 remuneration policy approval, the salary for the ChiefExecutive Officer will be frozen at 510,000 until 2019.
The Chief Financial Officers salary shall remain at325,000, her salaryatthe date of appointment in October 2016, until 2019.
Annual performance bonus APB As the CEO participates in the 2016 LTIP, his maximum bonus opportunity for 2018 will be 100% of salary.
The CFOs maximum bonus will be 125% of salary.
The APB provides a focus on the delivery ofthe stretching targets that are set by the Committee following consideration of the Companys annual operating plan by the Board each year and there is a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid.
56 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The performance conditions for the APB for the 2018 financial year will be based both on achieving and exceeding the Groups underlying PBT growth targets set by the Board 70% of bonus for the CEO and 80% of bonus for the CFO and on achieving individual business objectives 30% of bonus for the CEO and 20% of bonus for the CFO which support the business plan.
The underlying PBT measure is based oninternally set targets and pays out 20% at threshold 95% of target rising on a pro rata basis to 50% payout at target with fullpayment only due if we achieve 110% oftarget.
For 2018, strategic objectives will be set bythe Committee linked to the Companys strategic goals.
None of the strategic element of the bonus may be earned unless a threshold level of Group underlying PBT has been achieved.
Where appropriate, individual objectives are also set on a sliding scale based around a target.
The Committee considers that the performance targets in relation to the APB are commercially sensitive and therefore will not be disclosed on a prospective basis, but intends that the targets and outcomes are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report once theyare no longer considered sensitive, as has been itspractice in recent years.
The CEOs bonus will be payable in cash ashe participates in the 2016 LTIP.
For the CFO, twothirds of any bonus payments will be made in cash, with the remaining third deferred into Company shares, which will vest after two years during which time they remain subject to forfeiture.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on vested shares.
Long-term incentives The CEOs participation in the 2016 LTIP which replaces three annual grants over the period 20162018 means that he is not eligible for anLTIP grant in 2018.
It is intended that the CFO will receive an award of performance shares under the 2012 LTIP with a face value of 125% of salary.
Awards will vest after three years subject to two independent performance metrics.
50%: earnings per share growth Vesting % of EPS part Threeyear underlying EPS growth over 2017 base year of award Below 30% 0% 30% 10% 40% 45% 50% 80% 60% 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market expectations of the Company and internal longterm planning.
50%: relative TSR performance The remaining half of the award will vest in accordance with the following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts, over three financial years.
Vesting % of TSR part Ranking of the Companys TSR of award Below median 0% Median 15% Upper quartile or higher 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as themetrics, the Committee has sought to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in delivering profitable growth underlying EPS and aligning the CFO and senior management with shareholders through a TSR measure.
Benefits and supplements Benefits in kind provided for Executive Directors are principally Company car provision or an allowance in lieu of Company car, mobile telephone, life insurance cover and private health cover for Executive Directors and their family.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable andare not taken into account when determining base salary for performancerelated remuneration.
Pension The Committee reviews the pension arrangements for Executive Directors toensure that the benefits provided are consistent with those provided by other similar companies and take account ofchanges in relevant legislation.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme.
Instead, the Company contributes to the Executive Directors personal pensions or provides acash supplement at a rate of up to 15% ofbase salary.
The Committee approves the pension arrangements and contributions made bythe Group on behalf of the Executive Directors.
The Company does not contribute to any pension arrangements forthe nonexecutive Directors.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of remuneration policy for 2018 continued New appointments The remuneration arrangements for any new appointments to the Board will be consistent with the Companys approved remuneration policy and policy table.
Non-executive Directors fees Nonexecutive Directors fees are reviewed biennially and the last review was carried out in March 2018.
The fee structure for the Chairman and other nonexecutive Directors for 2018 and 2019 is as follows: Chairman 230,000: Nonexecutive Director base fee 50,000: Audit Committee Chairman fee 10,000: Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 10,000: Nomination Committee Chairman fee 5,000: and Senior Independent Director fee 10,000.
The fee levels have been updated following a benchmarking exercise which reviewed companies of comparable size and complexity and took account of the time commitment of the roles.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM At the AGM held on 20 April 2017 the Directors remuneration report was put toashareholder vote.
The voting results were as follows: Annual report on remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast For 346,779,670 92.35% Against 28,743,537 7.65% Total votes cast for and against 375,523,207 100% Votes withheld 2,025,419 Total votes cast including withheld votes 377,548,626 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
Single total remuneration figure for each Director audited 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 Fixed pay Performance-related pay Total 1 Benefits and LTIP DSBP remuneration 6 7 000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting vesting Subtotal in 2017 Executives David Wild 510 14 51 575 260 751 11 1,022 1,597 Rachel Osborne 325 17 49 391 168 25 193 584 Non-executives Stephen Hemsley 230 2 232 232 Colin Halpern 140 31 171 171 Helen Keays 54 54 54 Ebbe Jacobsen 47 47 47 Kevin Higgins 57 57 57 Steve Barber 57 57 57 Total 1,420 64 100 1,584 428 776 11 1,215 2,799 58 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52 weeks ended 25 December 2016 Fixed pay Performancerelated pay Total 1 Benefits and LTIP DSBP remuneration 8 9 000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting vesting Subtotal in 2016 Executives David Wild 510 14 51 575 413 3,489 5 3,907 4,482 2 Rachel Osborne 69 3 10 82 66 66 148 Former Executives 3 Paul Doughty 5 1 6 6 Non-executives Stephen Hemsley 230 2 232 232 4 Colin Halpern 181 31 212 212 Helen Keays 52 52 52 Ebbe Jacobsen 47 47 47 Kevin Higgins 57 57 57 Steve Barber 57 57 57 Total 1,208 50 62 1,320 479 3,489 3,973 5,293 5 Prior year reported total 1,359 56 79 1,494 669 669 2,163 Notes: 1 The value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car allowance and, if applicable, health cover.
2 Rachel Osborne took up the position of Chief Financial Officer with effect from 10 October 2016 on an annual salary of 325,000 and is eligible to receive benefits and a pension and participate in the incentive plans in line with the prevailing remuneration policy.
3 Paul Doughty tendered his resignation on 19 November 2015 and stepped down from the Board as Chief Financial Officer shortly after the financial year end, on 31 December 2015.
He was not eligible for a bonus and did not receive any awards under the LTIP scheme.
4 Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company and for the 2016 financial year a management fee of 181,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC inthe year in respect of his services.
During 2016 the terms of the management agreement were renegotiated and the management fee reduced to 140,000 per annum with effect from 25 April 2016.
A further benefit of 31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was also paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year.
The same overall structure of payment of fees operated in 2016.
5 As required by the regulations, this row sets out the total reported in the remuneration report for the prior financial year.
6 David Wild received awards under the 2012 LTIP on 21 December 2015 and Rachel Osborne received an additional award under the 2012 LTIP on 13October 2016.
The performance conditions applying to these awards were partially met please refer to details on page 60.
In accordance with the legislation, these awards have been valued using the three month average share price to 31 December 2017 328.26p.
In addition a dividend equivalent award equal to 32,994 has been included in the value of the vested award.
The 2014 LTIP award for David Wild vested during the year but has not yet been exercised.
Under the terms of the 2012 LTIP dividend equivalent awards continue to accrue until the award is exercised.
Accordingly, a further dividend award equal to 38,161 has been included.
7 The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP award to David Wild made on 11 March 2016, over 67,239 ordinary shares, vested on 11 March 2018.
Mr Wild is, on exercise of the award, entitled to receive a dividend equivalent award of 10,714.
8 David Wild received awards under the 2012 LTIP on 30 May 2014.
The performance conditions applying to these awards were met in full.
In accordance with the legislation, these awards have been valued using the threemonth average share price to 25 December 2016 346.77p.
In addition a dividend equivalent award equal to 203,397 has been included in the value of the vested award.
9 The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP award to David Wild made on 21 December 2015, over 40,098 ordinary shares, vested on 27 February 2017.
Mr Wild is, on exercise of the award, entitled to receive a dividend equivalent award of 5,523.
This sum was omitted from the single total remuneration figure for 2016.
10 As discussed more fully in Note 2 on page 82 : Judgements, a provision of 11m has been recorded in relation to potential employment tax liabilities of the group arising from historic sharebased compensation arrangements, the beneficiaries of which include the Chairman and certain former Directors.
The estimated components of this provision that relate to the Chairman and to certain former directors are some 3m and 3.5m respectively.
Defined contribution pensions audited Executive Directors receive up to 15% of salary from the Company, either as contributions to a personal pension fund or in cash.
In the year ended 31 December 2017 this totalled 51,000 for David Wild and 48,750 for Rachel Osborne.
Details of variable pay earned in the year Annual bonus plan The incentive for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 was in the form of a bonus based on performance against a combination of financial targets, specifically a significant increase in the Groups underlying PBT, and nonfinancial targets, incentivising a number of the Companys strategic priorities.
The CEO and CFO had bonus opportunities of up to 100% and 125% of salary, respectively, for the 2017 financial year.
Of this opportunity, 70% in respect of the CEO and 80% in respect of the CFO was linked to Group underlying PBT and operated on a banded basis, commencing at 20% for threshold levels of profit performance, 50% of bonus at target, with the full 100% only payable at stretch performance levels, being materially in excess of budget.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Annual bonus plan continued 2017 was a successful year for the Group, with the underlying PBT of 96.2m.
1 Targets set for year Actual performance Resulting bonus Resulting bonus Performance hurdle underlying PBT achieved outturn payable Growth in underlying profit before tax Threshold: 93.1m Actual underlying PBT 39.16% of maximum CEO: 139,813 ofbetween 95% of target 20% payout Target: 98m was 96.2m CFO: 127,281 and110% or more full payout.
Graduated Maximum: 107.8m scale operates between performance points The nonfinancial targets set for the CEO, which accounted for 30% of his maximum bonus opportunity, related to a number of key strategic objectives for 2017 which included: international expansion in the Nordics region: development of the new Supply Chain Centre in Warrington for opening in 2018: and acceleration of store openings in London.
The Remuneration Committees assessment of performance against the above objectives concluded that there was strong progress with these strategically linked personal objectives and 23.5 percentage points of the 30% forming this part of the bonus should be paid, equating to 119,850.
The nonfinancial targets set for the CFO, which accounted for 20% of her maximum bonus opportunity, related to a number of key strategic objectives for 2017 which included: utilise the new ERP system to improve the timeliness and quality of management information: support for the Audit Committee during the Audit tender process in 2017: and increase the operational strength of the finance team through external recruitment.
The Remuneration Committees assessment of performance against the above objectives concluded that there was progress with these strategically linked personal objectives and 10 percentage points of the 20% forming this part of the bonus should be paid, equating to 40,625.
Payment of the bonus is subject to reaching a threshold level of profitability, and this underpin was met.
Accordingly, David Wild is entitled to receive a bonus in respect of 2017 performance amounting to 259,663, equating to 50.91% of the maximum opportunity and c. 51.6% of salary.
The bonus is payable in cash.
Rachel Osborne is entitled to receive a bonus in respect of 2017 performance amounting to 167,906 equating to 41.3% of the maximum opportunity and c. 57.6% of salary.
In line with the policy, twothirds of the bonus will be payable in cash and onethird will be deferred into shares that vest after two years and are subject to forfeiture.
LTIPs An LTIP award of nilcost options granted to David Wild on 21 December 2015 will vest on 21 December 2018 and twothirds of tranche two of an LTIP award granted to Rachel Osborne on 13 October 2016 to compensate for sharebased incentives awarded at her previous employer will vest on 1 June 2018.
The awards were based on performance over the threeyear period ending on 31 December 2017.
The awards will vest partially according to the performance below.
50%: EPS performance Half of the award vests subject to growth in the Companys adjusted EPS on the following basis: Actual EPS performance % of award Metric performance condition Maximum vesting Threeyear adjusted earnings per share EPS 75.5% growth 30% growth 40% growth 50% growth 60% growth 100% 10% vesting 45% vesting 80% vesting 100% vesting Straightline vesting in between the performance points.
50%: TSR performance The remaining half of the award vests based on the following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance measures against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over three financial years: Actual % of award Metric performance Threshold Maximum vesting Ranking of the Companys TSR 56th of 183 Median Upper quartile1 81.89% 15% vesting 100% vesting 1 Median ranking was 92 and upper quartile ranking was 46.25 60 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Straightline vesting occurs between these points.
For reporting purposes the awards were valued using the threemonth average share price to 31 December 2017 328.26p plus a dividend equivalent award of 32,994.
 LTIP awards Tranche one of the LTIP award granted on 13 October 2016 to Rachel Osborne vested on 1 November 2017.
This tranche was not subject to any performance criteria as agreed as part of Mrs Osbornes compensation for forfeited awards from her former employment on joining the Company.
Share awards granted during the year audited Deferred Share Bonus Plan For Rachel Osborne, the bonus in respect of 2016 performance was settled twothirds in cash and onethird in shares, the receipt of the latter being deferred for two years.
The award granted in 2017 represents onethird of the gross bonus due to Rachel Osborne for the financial year ended 25 December 2016.
DSBP Basis of award Face value Number of shares Vesting date Rachel Osborne 33.33% of ABP value 22,037 6,779 17 03 2019 Based on a share price of 325.05p per share, being the average midmarket price of the Companys shares on 15 March 2017 and 16 March 2017.
This award, which is structured as a nilcost option, vests subject to continuous employment and no other performance criteria.
LTIP awards Details of the LTIP grant made on 15 August 2017 to Rachel Osborne are summarised below: Face value of Number of Face value award as a % Vesting % Performance Performance Executive Date of grant Type of award awards granted of award of salary at threshold period conditions Rachel Osborne 15 August 2017 Conditional 149,356 406,248 125% 1015% Three financial 50%: EPS award of share years from growth 2017 to 2019 50%: RTSR Based on a share price of 272p per share being the midmarket price of the Companys shares on 14 August 2017.
50%: earnings per share growth Vesting Threeyear underlying EPS growth over 2016 base year % of EPS part of award Below 30% 0% 30% 10% 40% 45% 50% 80% 60% 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market expectations of the Company and internal longterm planning.
Vesting Ranking of the Companys TSR % of TSR part of award Below median 0% Median 15% Upper quartile or higher 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as the metrics, the Committee has sought to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in delivering profitable growth underlying EPS and aligning the CFO and senior management with shareholders through a TSR measure.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Awards held in the year audited Details of options and conditional awards over shares held by Directors who served during the year are as follows: Date from which Outstanding Granted Outstanding Exercise exercisable shares at awarded in Exercised Lapsed shares at price capable 1 Plan 25 December 2016 2017 number vested number number 31 December 2017 pence Date of grant of vesting David Wild 2012 LTIP 541,515 541,515 n a 30 05 14 30 05 17 2012 LTIP additionalaward 406,137 406,137 n a 30 05 14 30 05 17 Sharesave 8,448 213 29 04 15 01 06 18 DSBP 40,098 40,098 n a 21 12 15 27 02 17 2012 LTIP 227,679 227,679 n a 21 12 15 21 12 18 DSBP 67,239 67,239 n a 11 03 16 11 03 18 2016 LTIP all tranches 1,602,000 1,602,000 n a 22 04 16 22 04 23 Rachel Osborne 2012 LTIP 68,953 68,953 n a 13 10 16 13 10 19 2012 LTIP additionalaward 8,486 8,486 n a 13 10 16 01 06 18 2012 LTIP additionalaward 37,482 37,482 n a 13 10 16 01 11 17 2012 LTIP 149,356 149,356 n a 15 08 17 15 08 20 DSBP 6,779 6,779 n a 17 03 17 17 03 19 1 The 2012 LTIP rules were amended on 21 July 2017.
The amendments provide that awards made under this scheme on or after 21 July 2017 are subject to atwoyear holding period and are subject to more stringent recovery and withholding provisions.
The amendments enable the Committee to scale back including to nil the extent to which an award will vest prior to vesting malus and i extend the clawback period to three years after vesting, ii enable clawback in the event of gross misconduct that could have warranted summary dismissal from employment, and iii provide the ability to reduce the number of vested awards that remain subject to a holding period requirement.
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued employment.
DSBP and Sharesave awards vest subject to continued employment only.
Dilution limits The Company operates within best practice guidelines published by the Investment Association.
These broadly provide that where new issue shares are used to satisfy awards made under employee share schemes, the aggregate number of shares placed under award disregarding any awards which have lapsed across all such schemes operated by the Company should not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any tenyear rolling period.
Termination payments audited No payments were made to former Directors and there were no payments for loss of office during the year.
Directors shareholdings audited To reinforce the linkage between senior Executives and shareholders, the Company has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to Executive Directors under its longterm incentive arrangements.
The Executive Directors are required to retain sufficient shares from the vesting of awards to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 150% of base salary for Rachel Osborne and 200% of base salary for David Wild.
It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a maximum of five years.
The Committee has discretion to waive the shareholding requirement in exceptional circumstances.
Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when determining the grant of future awards.
62 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee has decided that awards made under the DSBP shall count assuming the sale of sufficient shares to fund the employees tax and NI obligations towards this target.
Conditional shares Share options Legally owned Legally owned subject to not subject to shares at shares at performance performance Market value 31 December 2017 25 December 2016 conditions conditions of shareholding 1 or earlier date of cessation or earlier date of cessation 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP DSBP Sharesave as a % of salary Executive Directors David Wild 13,650 13,650 2,777,331 115,785 48% Rachel Osborne 19,821 226,795 6,779 25% Non-executive Directors 2 Stephen Hemsley 1,800,000 1,800,000 n a 3 Colin Halpern 1,673,700 1,673,700 n a Helen Keays n a Ebbe Jacobsen n a Kevin Higgins n a Steve Barber n a Notes: 1 Based on a share price of 345.7p prevailing at the end of the financial year and the number of shares in which the Director has a beneficial interest and calculated on the salary paid in the year.
2 1,800,000 Ordinary shares 2016: 1,800,000 are held by The Stephen Hemsley No.
5 Trust, a discretionary trust of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are potential beneficiaries.
HS Real LLC is owned by a discretionary trust, the beneficiaries of which are the adult children of Colin and Gail Halpern.
External appointments During the year, David Wild was appointed as senior independent director at Ten Entertainment Group and subsequently retired as a nonexecutive director from the board of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC on21 February 2018.
David Wild retained fees from his external appointments which amounted to 62,424 2016: 24,748.
CEO remuneration Total remuneration Annual bonus LTIP vesting Year ended Chief Executive Officer 000 % of max % of max 31 December 2017 David Wild 1,597 50.91% 90.95% 1 25 December 2016 David Wild 4,482 81% 100% 27 December 2015 David Wild 1,243 87.5% 28 December 2014 David Wild 864 58.6% 2 29 December 2013 Lance Batchelor 532 0% 30 December 2012 Lance Batchelor 852 50% 25 December 2011 Lance Batchelor 256 60% 25 December 2011 Chris Moore 630 60% 100% 26 December 2010 Chris Moore 809 100% 100% 1 The first LTIP awards granted to the current CEO that become capable of vesting based on performance ending in FY16 were in 2014 and these have been included in the above table.
2 Lance Batchelor resigned as CEO on 16 March 2014.
David Wild assumed the position of Interim CEO on 31 January 2014 and his appointment as the Groups CEO was formally confirmed on 30 April 2014.
For comparative purposes the total remuneration shown for the year ended 28 December 2014 includes remuneration received in both roles.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Total shareholder return The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance over the nine financial years to 31 December 2017, plotted against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
TSR reflects movements in the share price, adjusted for capital events and assuming all dividends are reinvested on the exdividend date.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts has been selected for this comparison because i this is the index in which the Companys shares have been quoted since admission to the Official List and ii it forms the comparator group for the TSR performance condition used in the Groups 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP.
The graph shows the value, at 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in the Company on 28 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at the relevant financial year ends.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 December December December December December December December December December December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc FTSE 250 excl.
investment trusts Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 2017 % Chief Executive Officer Salary 0% Benefits 0% Bonus 37.0 % Average employee on a per capita basis Salary 44.0 % Benefits 30.7 % Bonus 42.8 % The table above shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year, and compares this to the equivalent yearonyear changes averaged across all Group employees and expressed on a per capita basis.
Pay for Group employees includes material proportions paid in Group functional currencies, and the translation into pounds for the purposes of this yearonyear comparison includes exchange effects.
During the year the Group acquired a majority interest in companies in Norway, Iceland and Sweden.
This change increased the number of people employed in our corporate stores, which generally receive lower salaries and benefits than those in Group franchising operations.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2017 2016 % change 1 Staff costs m 62.3 41.4 50.5% of which Directors pay m 1.9 1.8 5.6% Dividends and share buybacks m 76.6 69.4 10.4% Underlying PBT m 96.2 85.7 12.0% 1 Excluding nonunderlying items Underlying PBT was chosen as a comparator as it reflects the profit generated by the Groups continuing operations, virtually the whole ofwhich leads to cash generation.
This therefore creates the opportunity for the Board to reinvest in the Groups business, or make distributions toshareholders, or both.
It is the same comparator as used in prior years remuneration reports.
On behalf of the Board Kevin Higgins Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2018 64 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Value rebased
