Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY STEVE GOOD, CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE As a global specialty chemicals company that utilises manufacturing technology and scientific innovation to deliver high value products to our clients, our remuneration policy is designed with a natural bias towards long term performance which aligns with the long term nature of our business.
This policy is considered to have worked well during the past 3 years and has delivered a majority of incentive pay based on growing profits and delivering above average total shareholder return.
The elements of incentive pay include: i our long term incentive plan, ii half of any annual bonus earned deferred into Company shares for 2 years and iii operating share ownership guidelines at a level of 200% of salary.
The AGM in 2018 marks the expiry of our current remuneration policy which was approved in 2015, and consequently during 2017 the Committee undertook a full review of remuneration policy.
The review was also considered timely given the Company is under a new leadership team and in the early I am pleased to present my first Directors remuneration stages of implementing the Reignite Growth strategy.
report since being appointed Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman following last years AGM.
2018 Remuneration policy review and outcome The review process included seeking the Boards views The Directors remuneration report is set out in 3 parts: on the effectiveness of the current policy at the same time as undertaking a review of our current policy against institutional 1.
This annual statement and summary.
The conclusion of the review was that the current policy framework continues to be 2.
The updated remuneration policy which will be submitted aligned with both the long term nature of our business and to shareholders in a binding vote at the AGM to be held current best practice.
As a result, the Committee is comfortable on 26 April 2018, and will apply from this date.
with retaining the same overall framework with a small number of modifications.
These include providing greater flexibility to 3.
T he annual remuneration report which provides detail refine our choice of performance metrics within our incentive on Director remuneration in 2017 and the proposed plans as further progress is made with the implementation of implementation of our remuneration policy for 2018 our Reignite Growth strategy further details can be found on which is subject to an advisory shareholder vote pages 4 to 11 and the ability to adjust the formula based at the AGM on 26 April 2018. outcomes of our incentive programmes to ensure pay is aligned with overall Company performance.
A summary of the key points to note in relation to our policy renewal, including the modifications to our current policy, are set out below: No changes are proposed to the maximum incentive quantum in 2018 with the maximum annual bonus opportunities of the CEO and CFO remaining at 150% and 125% of salary respectively and the maximum face value of the 2018 long term incentive share awards to remain at 200% and 175% of salary No change is proposed to the maximum long term incentive policy award limit for new joiners which is being retained at 250% of salary.
However, flexibility is also being introduced Committee members Scheduled meetings to enable awards to be granted in future years to the current Executive Directors at up to 250% of salary.
There is no current 5 8 intention of using this additional flexibility which is being introduced in the context of the new policy enduring for the Committee members Scheduled meetings 3 year policy period through to 2021.
The circumstances Steve Good 8 8 in which this additional flexibility could be used include 1 Sandra Boss 7 8 a a material change to the size and scale of the Company: 2 or b a rebalancing from short term to long term performance.
Dorothee Deuring 7 7 Use of this additional flexibility would only be considered 3 Anne Hyland 2 2 following appropriate dialogue with our major shareholders Nick Salmon 8 8 4 Andrew Christie past Director 2 2 C hairman of Committee, appointed Remuneration Committee chairman on 25 April 2017.
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2017, Sandra missed 1 Remuneration Committee meeting due to an engagement arranged prior to her appointment to the Board.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2017.
3 Stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 25 April 2017.
4 Retired from the Board and as Remuneration Committee Chairman on 25 April 2017.
55 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Committee discretion is proposed to override incentive Our savings based option schemes for UK and US employees pay outcomes in the event that payouts are not considered will operate on the same basis as in prior years.
The only reflective of overall Company performance having applied the amendments to be made to these plans will be updates to performance conditions for the annual bonus and long term reflect the efficient operation of the schemes in each location incentive plan.
This toughens the current approach of relying e. g. any necessary updates to reflect changes in local on the general discretionary nature of the bonus plan to make legislation, tax rules or securities laws.
Elementis remains adjustments to potential bonus payments with the ability to committed to providing the opportunity for UK and US override future long term incentive plan vesting results being employees to become owners in our Company.
introduced for the first time.
A reduction to the notice periods in Non-Executive Director A summary of the principal features of all schemes being letters of appointment from 6 months to 30 days notice presented for shareholder approval at the AGM is included by either party to better reflect current market practice.
in separate Circular and Notice of Meeting being sent to From a policy perspective, we will retain flexibility to set all shareholders.
notice periods at up to 3 months.
No change is proposed to the notice period for the role of Chairman which will remain APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2018 at 6 months both in policy and practice.
As detailed above, the current remuneration policy and its Flexibility is also introduced to set structured strategic targets application is considered to be working effectively and so no for a modest part of future long term incentive plan awards.
material changes to the current application of policy will take This could become relevant as we make further progress in place in 2018.
The key points to note include: executing the Reignite Growth strategy but would also only take place following appropriate dialogue with our major Salary review: in line with the average increases awarded to shareholders.
the salaried workforce in the US and the UK, the salaries of the The maximum level of pension benefits provided either CEO and CFO were increased by 3%, $25,440 and 10,025 as a contribution to a pension scheme or as cash in lieu respectively, with effect from 1 January 2018. of pension within policy for new Executive Directors is to be reduced from 30% of salary to 25% of salary.
2018 annual bonus: the same bonus metrics as operated in 2017 are being retained with 70% of the bonus earned against The above changes were the subject of consultation with a challenging range of financial targets 50% on adjusted Group our major shareholders and the leading advisory bodies.
profit before tax and 20% on AWC on total operations and 30% The feedback received was generally constructive and based on the delivery of specific and measurable objectives overall supportive.
that are related to the Companys strategic priorities.
Summary details of our approach to target setting are detailed on RENEWAL OF SHARE PLANS AT 2018 AGM page 62 and full details of the financial target ranges and our At the same time as seeking shareholder approval for a new performance against them will be disclosed on a retrospective remuneration policy at the 2018 AGM we will also be seeking basis in next years report.
Details of the strategic targets and shareholder approval to renew our long term incentive plan performance against them will also be disclosed retrospectively LTIP and our all employee savings based option schemes.
This is due to their expiry around the time of the AGM.
In line with best practice, the Committee has discretion to With regard to the new LTIP, which will facilitate the operation modify the overall amount of bonus payable in exceptional of the policy detailed above, this will replicate the terms of the circumstances and acting in the best interests of the Company.
current LTIP for Executive Directors given that our current plan The actual criteria and weighting will be reviewed annually to has been updated over time to ensure it remained aligned with ensure they remain appropriate.
evolving best practice e. g. through including the ability to grant awards subject to both a holding period on vested shares and 2018 LTIP awards: will be granted subject to the same EPS recovery and withholding provisions.
The main change that is and TSR performance conditions split 50:50 as operated in being made is the ability to grant restricted shares i. e. shares 2017.
The range of EPS growth targets will be average annual that vest based on time only to participants below Board level, EPS growth of 3% to 10% p. a. for vesting growth measured in addition to the current approach of granting performance from the 2017 EPS result with TSR based on our performance related share awards.
The majority of LTIP participants are against the constituents of the FTSE All Share index excluding based in the US where it is common practice to grant restricted investment trusts.
EPS is defined as being the fully diluted EPS shares.
This approach will enable the Company to better after adjusting items on total operations continuing and compete for the best talent in the US and offer greater flexibility discontinued.
Further details of the targets including rationale to reward and incentivise talent below Board level.
Where for setting the targets are set out on page 62. restricted share awards are granted, these will be at a lower level approximately 50% lower than if performance related Non-Executive Directors fees: the Committee, following share awards were to be granted.
As a result, Executive Share a recommendation by the Board, approved a policy in 2016 to Option awards will no longer be granted to participants below increase the Chairmans fee and the Non-Executive Directors Board level.
basic and any additional role fees annually by the same percentage increase as the average UK salaried workforce for the year being reported.
Therefore, the increase for 2018 will be 3% which was the average rate of increase for the UK salaried workforce in 2017.
56 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information REMUNERATION ADVISERS SUMMARY During the year under review, we carried out a tender process The Committee has considered at length the structure for the role of external adviser to the Committee.
It was decided and operation of the incentive plans, as well as target setting, that New Bridge Street, who had been appointed to the role and believe these to be challenging and appropriate.
after a tender in 2008 and again in 2013, would not be invited The Committee remains committed to maintaining appropriate to participate owing to their length of tenure.
Following a and testing targets for the calculation of performance related competitive tender process, the Committee appointed Korn pay.
The shareholders that we consulted were supportive of the Ferry as its external advisers with effect from 27 April 2017 proposals and the final proposed policy reflects the feedback with their first act being to support the Committee in the review we received.
of remuneration policy detailed above.
This exercise was undertaken in conjunction with a management review The Committee believes that the policy and our approach to of below Board level incentives.
implementation in 2018 are in the best interests of shareholders and we hope that you will support the actions the Committee VARIABLE REMUNERATION OUTCOME FOR 2017 has taken by voting accordingly at the 2018 AGM.
Annual bonus plan Elementis delivered a strong performance in 2017, recording This Directors remuneration report for 2017 was prepared growth in profit before tax across all of our business segments by the Committee and has been approved by the Board.
at the same time as improving working capital management.
Underpinning a successful 2017 was our progress in STEVE GOOD implementing our Reignite Growth strategy.
In summary, Chairman, Remuneration Committee adjusted Group profit before tax grew by 24.5% on the 2016 27 February 2018 result, the average trade working capital to sales ratio improved from 22.1% to 18.8% and very good outcomes were achieved against the range of strategic targets set in line with a successful execution of the Reignite Growth strategy.
Accordingly, bonuses were payable at 93% and 94% of the maximum for the CEO and CFO respectively.
Further details of the targets set for 2017 are disclosed in this years Annual report on remuneration on pages 70 to 71.
LTIP The 2015 LTIP awards would normally vest in early 2018 based on performance over the 3 years ended 31 December 2017.
The Company generated total shareholder returns over the period of 23.9% compared to 30.5% for the median performing company in the FTSE All-Share Index excluding investment trusts and, therefore, this portion of the award will lapse.
Reflecting a combination of the challenging economic environment and the robust nature of the targets set, the threshold EPS targets were not met and this portion of the award will also lapse.
As a result, none of the 2015 LTIP awards will vest.
As the current Executive Directors were not in post when the 2015 LTIP awards were granted, they are not affected by this result.
The Committee believes that the overall incentive out-turns detailed above are justified based on the Companys performance over the period and demonstrates that the Committee has, and will continue to, set performance targets under both the short and long term incentives which it considers to be meaningful and appropriately stretching.
Under lying Group PBT, adjusted for specific exceptional items is used for determining bonus outcomes.
57 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy report EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys existing Remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2015 AGM and took effect from the date of that meeting.
The new policy set out below will be proposed to shareholders for adoption at the 2018 AGM on 26 April 2018.
If approved it will apply immediately and will replace the policy approved in 2015.
As detailed in the Chairmans annual statement on remuneration, since the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at our 2015 AGM is considered to be working effectively, the current policy is being renewed on broadly the same terms.
However, to enable the Committee to take account of the progress we are making against our Reignite Growth strategy, additional flexibility is being included in our policy renewal in a small number of areas.
These are explained in the Chairmans annual statement and include: i the ability to introduce strategic targets into future long term incentive awards and ii the ability to grant awards to Executive Directors under the LTIP at up to 250% of salary.
Other changes include: i reducing the notice periods for Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman from 6 months to 30 days with the ability to set notice periods of up to 3 months to be retained within policy and reducing the maximum Company pension contribution for new joiners to 25% of salary from 30% of salary.
POLICY TABLE The information in the table below sets out the remuneration policy for the different elements that make up total remuneration applying to Directors.
Basic salary Purpose and link to Targeted at a level to attract and retain world class executives who are essential to drive the business Companys strategy forward and deliver the Companys strategic goals.
How it operates in practice Annual salary increases that are broadly in line with the local workforce in percentage of salary terms, subject to Committee approval.
Increases beyond the average of those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a material change in responsibility or experience of the individual, to recognise exceptional performance over a sustained period or a significant increase in the complexity, size or value of the Company.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases above those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in December and any changes are effective from 1 January in the following year.
Maximum potential value There is no prescribed maximum for salary increases.
The Committee will be guided by the general increase for the local workforce and or broader workforce as a whole, as well as the circumstances listed above.
Salaries for 2018: CEO $873,540 CFO 344,450 Benefits Purpose and link to To aid retention and to remain competitive in the marketplace.
Companys strategy Healthcare benefits in order to minimise business disruption.
Executive Directors may also participate along with other employees in the Groups HMRC approved SAYE or other equivalent savings based share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Life assurance and private medical health insurance are provided.
Provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance.
Payments in connection with an international assignment and payments in connection with a relocation, which would typically be paid for a transitionary period only, tailored to the location of each executive.
The benefits may include provision of tax advice where, at the Companys request, the international location or balance of time spent in different locations is changed.
Participation in all employee savings based share option schemes as above.
In addition, benefits in the US, where it is standard, include cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and club membership.
Maximum potential value SAYE savings based schemes are subject to individual limits.
These are $2,000 per month in the US and in the UK up to the HMRC prescribed limit 500 per month.
Other benefits: the Committee will determine the level of benefit as it considers appropriate, taking into consideration local market practice.
58 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual bonus scheme Purpose and link to To incentivise the senior management team to exceed the annual operating plan approved Companys strategy by the Board at the start of each financial year.
To ensure that a significant proportion of an executives total remuneration is based on corporate business financial performance that is linked to the Companys annual operating plan.
Through the part deferral of bonuses into deferred shares this enables incentive pay to help executives build and maintain meaningful shareholdings and thereby providing a long term focus.
How it operates in practice An annual bonus is based on over performance against selected performance measures which are linked to the Companys key performance indicators, or the achievement of strategic and or operational objectives.
Bonus payments are paid following the approval of full year results.
Payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
Bonus deferral element: 50% of any cash bonus payable must be awarded in shares and deferred for 2 years.
Dividends accrue on deferred shares which are normally structured as nil cost options or conditional share awards that vest during the vesting period.
Deferred shares are forfeitable for gross misconduct dismissal for cause.
The Committee may seek recovery and or withholding of bonuses paid that are later found to have been based on performance that was mis-stated or incorrectly calculated, or where the amount of any bonus may have been reduced or withheld due to reasons of gross misconduct.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply for a period of 3 years following payment of any bonus.
Detailed provisions are incorporated into the rules of the various schemes which govern the terms of a bonus payment and or the making of any deferred share or conditional award.
Maximum potential value CEO: 150% of basic salary.
A higher annual bonus limit of 200% of basic salary may apply for new recruits.
Framework used to assess Performance measures will be mainly financial measures.
The Committee reserves the right to select performance other non-financial targets including the basis of their measurement as appropriate considering the Companys strategic objectives for the year ahead.
The financial element of the bonus may include but is not limited to the Companys key performance indicators which include: Profit before tax or other measures of profitability.
Group average trade working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage AWC or other cash flow indicators.
For any profit related metric, targets will be set at threshold, plan and stretch levels and the amount payable for threshold performance is 0% for financial targets rising on a graduated basis through to 100% becoming payable at the stretch performance level.
With regards to non-financial targets, it is not always practicable to set targets on a sliding scale and so targets may be set based on the achievement of specific milestones and or on a graduated scale.
The Committee will consider the bonus outcome each year based on the Companys performance against the measures set at the start of the year.
If it considers the quantum to be inconsistent with the Companys overall performance during the year it can override the result of the performance test.
For the avoidance of doubt this can be to zero and bonuses may not exceed the maximum levels detailed above.
Any use of such discretion would be detailed in the Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee keeps performance metrics under review on an annual basis to ensure they continue to remain appropriate and has the discretion to introduce new metrics or remove existing ones and amend their relative weightings.
As a result, the performance metrics and weightings may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy during the life of the policy.
The profit related element of annual bonus shall not be less than 50% of the overall bonus opportunity.
59 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long term incentives Purpose and link to The LTIP is the sole long term incentive mechanism for Executive Directors and is intended to align Companys strategy the interests of the executives and shareholders in growing the value of the Group over the long term.
When granting awards under the LTIP the Committee generally takes into consideration the need to motivate and retain the Executive Directors and other participants.
How it operates in practice Awards are normally structured as either nil cost options or conditional share awards which are eligible to be granted annually.
Options may be exercisable 3 years from, and within 10 years of, the date of award.
Share awards normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of award.
A post-vesting holding period of 2 years will apply to annual awards.
Recovery and withholding provisions similar to those described in respect of annual bonus payments but relating to the vesting of LTIP awards will apply to awards.
Dividends may accrue on shares that vest during the vesting period and during the post-vesting holding period where awards are structured as nil-cost options and may be paid in cash or shares.
Maximum potential value The maximum award limit is set at 250% of basic salary.
Current practice is as follows: CEO: 200% of basic salary CFO: 175% of basic salary Framework used to assess Awards are subject to achievement of financial e. g. EPS and or relative TSR performance conditions, performance measured over a minimum of 3 financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is made.
The Committee also retains flexibility to introduce strategic targets as a performance measure for a minority of an award.
For any financial performance condition, threshold vesting will start from 0% and this will increase on a graduated basis with 100% vesting for achieving the stretch targets.
TSR will be measured against the constituents of a broad equity index, or a bespoke group of appropriate comparator companies.
For any relative TSR performance condition, threshold vesting will start at 3.85% and this will also increase on a graduated basis with 100% vesting for achieving the stretch targets, which for the TSR performance condition will require at least upper quartile performance.
In relation to strategic targets, the structure of the target will vary based on the nature of target set i. e. it will not always be practicable to strategic targets using a graduated scale and so vesting may take place in full if specific criteria are met in full.
The metrics and their weighting and targets within the LTIP will be reviewed each year.
The Committee will consider the LTIP vesting outcomes for awards granted from 2018 based on applying the performance conditions and if it considers the level of vesting to be inconsistent with the Companys overall performance during the performance period including its underlying financial performance it can override the result of the performance test.
For the avoidance of doubt this can be to zero.
60 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Pension Purpose and link to To aid retention and remain competitive in the marketplace.
Companys strategy To provide appropriate retirement benefits commensurate with local market practice, seniority of the role and tenure with the Company.
How it operates in practice Policy for the CFO and new recruits is a contribution to a non-Company pension scheme and or cash in lieu.
The policy for the CEO is set out below.
CEO An annual salary supplement of 20% of basic salary and, for US employees, participation in 2 defined contribution schemes being: i a U S 401 k Plan, where employee contributions are from pre-tax earnings which is capped at 8% up to a maximum of $270,000 the compensation limit set by the US Internal Revenue Service IRS for 2017. ii a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan together, the Defined Contribution plans.
This plan mirrors the 401 k Plan except employee contributions are in respect of pensionable remuneration over the limit set by the IRS.
The employer match under these 2 plans includes a regular match of up to 4% of total pensionable remuneration and a supplemental match of up to 4%, based on age and length of service.
Maximum potential value The policy for new executives is to limit Company pension contributions to the rates currently provided to comparable roles in the organisation and, in all cases, to a maximum of 25% of salary.
Under the policy the maximum for the CEO is 20% of his salary and up to 8% of pensionable remuneration depending on the amount of personal contributions made into the Defined Contribution plans.
The maximum for the CFO is an annual salary supplement of 25% of his basic salary.
Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to To align an executives interests with those of shareholders and to encourage executives to participate Companys strategy and share in the long term success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the Company that is equal in value to 200% of their basic annual salaries.
Shares vesting from share awards, or transferred pursuant to an exercise of any option, granted under any share incentive or employee share saving scheme may not be sold other than to meet a tax liability until the above shareholding level has been met.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee may allow the Director to sell some, or all, shares received from a share incentive scheme even if the individual has not met the share ownership guidelines, provided they are satisfied that shareholder interests are adequately aligned.
The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines and can make changes to them from time to time.
Non-Executive Chairman and Directors fees Purpose and link to To attract individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience that the Board considers Companys strategy necessary in order to maintain an optimal mix that ensures the effectiveness of the Board as a whole in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
How it operates in practice Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors, having regard to fees paid to Non-Executive Directors in other UK quoted companies and the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
In the case of the Chairman, the fee level is determined by the Committee.
As well as taking into consideration the above factors, the Committee sets the fee at an appropriate level necessary to attract a role holder qualified to effectively lead the board of a company of a similar size and prestige as Elementis.
Fees are payable in cash and Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
All Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and related business expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties so that they are fully recompensed on a pre-tax basis for undertaking Company business.
No individual is allowed to vote on his her own remuneration.
Maximum opportunity Fees will be reviewed annually with changes taking effect from 1 January in the following year.
It is the Companys policy other than where there is a step change in the time commitment required of the Non-Executives Directors that fees paid to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are increased annually in line with the average increase awarded to the UK salaried workforce.
61 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LINK BETWEEN POLICY, STRATEGY AND STRUCTURE The remuneration policy is principally designed to attract, motivate and retain the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Leadership team senior management team to execute the Companys corporate and business strategies in order to deliver the annual operating plan and sustainable year on year profitable growth, as well as to generate and preserve value for shareholders over the longer term, without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
The principles and values that underpin the remuneration strategy are applied on a consistent basis for all Group employees.
The remuneration structure for Executive Directors is made up of 2 elements: fixed remuneration consisting of basic salary, benefits including for example non-contributory health insurance and life assurance and pension provision, and variable remuneration annual bonus scheme and long term share incentives.
It is Company policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and by reference to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
CHOICE OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND APPROACH TO TARGET SETTING The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long term incentive plans are drawn from a suite of Company KPIs monitored by the Board that are closely linked to the financial KPIs on pages 14 to 15.
In the annual bonus scheme, the financial measures currently used are adjusted Group profit before tax and AWC.
Adjusted Group profit before tax is a clear measure of the Companys trading performance and AWC encourages the most efficient use of working capital and is how earnings are converted into cash.
These metrics are aligned with the Companys objectives and strategy.
In addition, non-financial criteria also form part of the targets set in the bonus scheme and these are based on Company specific business objectives, such as the achievement of specific strategic or operational goals including metrics that take account of business or corporate performance in environmental, social and governance areas and typically incorporate specific HSE related targets or objectives.
With regard to long term performance targets, EPS is currently used since it is aligned with the Companys strategy of delivering profitable growth and creating long term shareholder returns.
Use of relative TSR also further aligns shareholders and executives.
Targets for financial metrics are set relative to internal planning expectations after having regard to general economic conditions, external market data, current and past performance of the business and any organic or acquisitive growth plans.
Where appropriate, targets are set based on sliding scales.
Only very modest rewards are available for delivering performance at threshold levels or above with maximum rewards requiring outperformance of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee keeps the choice of metrics and targets under review for the both the annual and long term incentive plans each year to ensure they are appropriate in light of the Companys current circumstances.
The Committee retains discretion to revise the choice of metric and weightings within the incentives as detailed above.
Should the Committee make material changes to the application of remuneration policy from the approach detailed on pages 59 to 60 for 2018 e. g. introduce a strategic target into a future long term incentive award, appropriate consultation with the Companys major shareholders would take place.
DIFFERENCES IN EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION POLICY COMPARED TO OTHER EMPLOYEES The Committee is informed of pay structures across the wider Group when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader Group and, in particular the employees based in the US, UK and Europe, when determining salary increases for the Executive Directors.
The same principles and values behind the design of remuneration for the Executive Directors apply to other members of the Executive Leadership team and employees throughout the rest of the Group, with modifications to reflect local market practice see below in relation to the introduction of restricted shares below the Board level and the level of seniority and ability to influence Group performance.
Overall, the remuneration policy for Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors given it is the Executive Directors who are considered to have the greatest potential to influence shareholder value creation.
The level of variable pay varies by level of employee within the Group and is informed by the specific responsibilities of each role and local market practice as appropriate.
One change that is to be made below the Board level in 2018 is to introduce the ability to grant restricted shares into the new LTIP.
The majority of the senior executive population at Elementis is based in the US where it is common market practice to grant restricted shares.
It is considered that the ability to grant restricted shares in tandem with performance related share awards enables the Company to compete for the best talent.
Where restricted shares are used, the award levels will be lower than if performance shares were granted since restricted share awards are more valuable to a recipient given there is no performance requirement attached to the vesting of the award.
Restricted shares will not be granted to Executive Directors.
62 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information HOW THE VIEWS OF EMPLOYEES ARE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT Currently, the Group does not actively consult with employees on executive remuneration.
The Group has a diverse workforce operating in 10 different countries, with various local pay practices, which would make any cost effective consultation impractical.
However, as noted above, when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions for other employees in the Group.
This process ensures that any annual increase to the basic pay of Executive Directors is not out of proportion with that proposed for other employees.
The Committee has considered both the UK Governments proposals on strengthening the voice of stakeholders in companies in particular the employee voice and the subsequent December 2017 Financial Reporting Council Consultation on the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a result, and pending finalisation of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code in 2018, the Committee will consider the most appropriate stakeholder engagement model for implementation at Elementis.
COMMITTEE DISCRETION WITH REGARD TO INCENTIVE PLANS The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, deferred share bonus plan, LTIP and all employee plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include the following plan limits and performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed in the preceding policy table : Who participates in the plans The timing of grant of award and or payment The size of an award and or payment The determination of vesting Dealing with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring Determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends The annual review of performance conditions, including metrics and weightings, for the annual bonus plan and LTIP The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP if events occur e. g. material divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The Committee is introducing discretion to override incentive pay outcomes in the event that payouts are not considered reflective of overall Company performance having applied the performance conditions for the annual bonus and LTIP.
CEO CFO 000 000 3,269k 3,500 Fixed 1,750 Fixed 1,489k 42% Annual bonus Annual bonus 3,000 1,500 40% LTIP LTIP 2,500 1,250 2,080k 972K 33% 2,000 1,000 31% 32% 29% 1,500 750 24% 22% 891k 456k 1,000 500 43% 27% 100% 47% 31% 100% 500 250 0 Fixed On target Maximum 0 Fixed On target Maximum CEO AND CFO REWARDS SCENARIO ANALYSIS The bar charts above illustrate the potential pay opportunities for Executive Directors under 3 different scenarios for 2018.
The CEOs remuneration has been converted into pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for 2017 $1.2858:1.00.
Fixed: comprises fixed pay being the value of salary, benefits and pension the employers matching contributions to defined contribution plans are included at the estimated level of 4.5% of salary.
On target: the amount receivable assumes performance in which 50% of annual bonus is payable and 50% of LTIP awards vest.
Maximum: the maximum amount receivable should all stretch targets be met and vesting under both the annual bonus scheme and LTIP is 100%.
When valuing the LTIP awards under the On target and Maximum scenarios, these are based on face value as a percentage of salary.
The LTIPs also relate to awards to be made in 2018 rather than any awards vesting in 2018.
63 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED RECRUITMENT POLICY For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the policy outlined below: Element Policy Basic salary Basic salary levels will be set in accordance with the Companys remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity or salary levels may be set below this level e. g. if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits New Directors may be entitled to benefits such as life assurance, private medical health insurance, cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, club membership or any other appropriate benefit as the Committee reasonably determines.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment for a maximum period of 12 months.
Pension A Company contribution into a pension plan and or cash supplement of up to a maximum limit of 25% of salary.
Legacy pension arrangements for promotees which may include defined benefit or US style arrangements may continue to operate on their existing terms.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate as outlined for current Executive Directors but where necessary to aid recruitment the maximum bonus opportunity is 200% of basic salary for the life of this policy.
Bonus will be pro-rated for the proportion of the year served.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
Long term incentives Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current Executive Directors on an annual basis but where necessary to aid recruitment the maximum award is 250% of basic salary for the life of this policy.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
In addition, if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board Director for that financial year, the Committees policy would include flexibility to top up awards for that year subject to the overall individual salary limit based on the executives new salary.
Buyout awards In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards may be granted using the Companys LTIP up to the individual limit or outside of the LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Interim appointments Where a Director is appointed on an interim basis e. g. to cover a role until a permanent successor is appointed, the Company may pay additional remuneration to an individual in line with the policy for the role.
OUTSIDE BOARD APPOINTMENTS The Companys policy is to support executives should he she wish to take on an external board appointment, provided that there is no conflict of interest and the role does not interfere with the executives commitment or duties.
If an executive does take on an external appointment they may retain any fees paid and will be restricted generally to only one such external appointment.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the Company that is equal in value to 200% of their basic annual salaries.
64 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information SERVICE CONTRACTS Executive Directors service contracts contain a termination notice period not exceeding 12 months.
Name Date of contract Notice period Paul Waterman, CEO 6 November 2015 12 months Ralph Hewins, CFO 27 June 2016 12 months The date of the service contract is not the same as the date of appointment which for Paul Waterman was 8 February 2016 and Ralph Hewins 12 September 2016.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Termination payments The maximum amount payable under both the CEOs and CFOs contract is basic salary, benefits and pension for 12 months while each serves his notice period.
For the Executive Directors, the terms covering termination were agreed at the date their contracts were made and both are required to mitigate their loss in the event of loss of office by making efforts to secure a new position.
The Company may pay compensation in lieu of the notice period of basic salary only, to be paid in monthly instalments pro-rated for the actual notice period.
This would apply if the Company terminates his her contract for any reason other than for cause, or if he she serves notice to terminate his contract in 12 months time.
Payments in lieu of notice to both the CEO and CFO may be reduced or ceased if either secures a new position.
In both cases, the payments will only be ceased if the salary in a new position is equal to or more than the salary on termination: if not the monthly payments will be reduced by the gross salary earned by the CEO or CFO in his new position each month.
The above summary only addresses contractual rights to payments in lieu of notice, or during the relevant Directors notice period, and may not reflect any settlement or compromise sums which are separately agreed at the point of termination.
Treatment of incentive plans Annual bonus plan If an Executive Director resigns and serves his her notice period, the Committee retains discretion to make a pro-rata payment based on performance.
The same applies in certain circumstances such as if the individuals employment is terminated on the grounds of ill health or disability.
No bonus is payable for termination for cause.
In line with the Companys policy, rules of the annual bonus scheme incorporate a requirement to defer half of the amount of bonus vesting for 2 years in the form of share awards under the deferred share bonus plan.
In certain good leaver circumstances e. g. ill health, death, the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may waive deferral.
Deferred share bonus plan If an Executive Directors employment is terminated before a deferred share award vests after 2 years, then the awards would vest in full on the date of leaving unless termination is for cause in which case the awards would lapse.
LTIP As with the annual bonus plan, the Companys current and proposed LTIP also includes a number of discretions in connection with an Executive Director leaving employment.
Other than in certain defined good leaver circumstances, awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an individual ceases employment for one of the defined good leaver events i. e. ill health, disability, redundancy within the meaning of UK legislation or its overseas equivalent, transfer out of the Group sale of business or retirement with employers consent and, in the case of the new LTIP, any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, the award will remain eligible to vest on its normal vesting date unless the Committee uses its discretion to vest the award on the date of cessation of employment in all cases subject to a pro-rata reduction to reflect the portion of the vesting period that has elapsed unless the Committee determines otherwise and the application of the performance condition.
In the event of a death of an Executive Director the default is for the award to vest at the date of death unless the Committee determines otherwise in which case it will vest at the normal vesting date with pro-rating and performance conditions applied as described in other good leaver circumstances.
Similar provisions apply in the event of a change of control, with performance measured up to the date of the relevant event, and a pro-rata reduction applying unless the Committee determines otherwise.
It is the Committees policy to exercise these discretions in a way that would be in the best interests of the Company and depending on the individual circumstances of each case.
PAYMENTS AGREED PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS POLICY Any agreements entered in good faith prior to the commencement of the 2018 remuneration policy will remain eligible to operate on their original terms.
65 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a 3 year term, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
For Non-Executive Directors who have served for 9 years or more, they may be appointed for a further year at a time.
Each letter of appointment currently provides that the Directors appointment can be terminated by the Company on 6 months notice on any grounds without claim for compensation.
Following the 2018 AGM, the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors will be amended to 30 days notice by either party, which is the application of the new remuneration policy where a limit of up to 3 months is permitted.
All other terms will remain the same.
The Chairmans letter of appointment will remain with a 6 months notice period.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive schemes.
The table below provides further details of the letters of appointment that the Non-Executive Directors held with the Company during 2017.
Date of Date of last Name appointment re-appointment Date of expiry Non-Executive Directors A Duff 01 04 14 01 04 17 01 04 20 S Boss 01 02 17 N A 01 02 20 D Deuring 01 03 17 N A 01 03 20 S Good 20 10 14 20 10 17 20 10 20 A Hyland 01 06 13 01 06 16 01 06 20 N Salmon 20 10 14 20 10 17 20 10 20 Former Non-Executive Directors 1 A Christie 11 08 08 11 08 14 N A 1 Andrew Christie stepped down as a Non-Executive Director following the conclusion of last years AGM on 25 April 2017.
Copies of all letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The views of shareholders are important to the Committee.
Regular dialogue and engagement with the Companys shareholders are encouraged.
Consultation with major shareholders representing more than 40% of the share register and shareholder representative bodies was sought before proposing this remuneration policy.
66 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration This Annual report on remuneration shows how the Companys policies and practices on Directors remuneration will be applied in 2018 and how they were applied in relation to payments in respect of the financial year ended 2017.
This report and the Chairmans annual statement on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2018 This first section of the Annual report on remuneration describes how the Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
Basic salaries The Committee considered carefully salary increases for 2018 and decided to award Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins each a salary increase as shown in the table below, which is consistent with the average increase last year for the respective US and UK salaried workforce.
Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2018 1 January 2017 Increase Paul Waterman $873,540 $848,100 3% Ralph Hewins 344,450 334,425 3% Pension and benefits For the year to 31 December 2018, Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins will receive the benefits set out in the Remuneration policy report.
Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity will be 150% of basic salary for Paul Waterman and 125% of basic salary for Ralph Hewins.
Any bonus will be payable dependent on the achievement of financial and non-financial performance targets split 70:30.
Of the financial elements these will have the following weights: adjusted Group profit before tax 50% and AWC 20% relative to total bonus opportunity.
Adjusted Group profit before tax is defined as the Group profit before tax on total operations continuing and discontinued after adjusting items, excluding adjusting items relating to tax.
AWC is the 12 month average working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage.
For both the adjusted Group profit before tax and AWC conditions, targets will be set on a sliding scale with the threshold, plan and stretch targets set at levels considered to be sufficiently challenging and bonus accrual at these levels under both conditions are 0%, 50% and 100%, respectively, and linear in between.
For Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins, the non-financial performance targets have been set which are specific, measurable and objective and are linked to the achievement of Company specific objectives that are based on the Companys strategic priorities outlined on pages 4 to 11 in the Strategic report.
These include targets for i safety, compliance and risk management, ii supply chain transformation, iii culture and iv specific strategic targets.
Each of the performance elements adjusted Group profit before tax, AWC and non-financial objectives is separate and capable of paying out independently.
Bonus outcomes will only be approved subject to the Committee confirming that it considers the level of payment to be consistent with the Companys overall performance during the year.
The Committee may modify the proposed payment where this is not the case.
Relevant disclosures relating to the factors considered by the Committee will be included in next years Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee considers that the bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a retrospective basis in next years Directors remuneration report.
Bonus payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
All employee share plans Executive Directors will be entitled to participate in any all employee share plans on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
67 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP For the year to 31 December 2018, the CEOs and the CFOs awards will be 200% and 175%, respectively, of their basic salaries.
The performance targets that are intended to apply to the awards to be granted in the current year are the same as for 2017 in respect of both the EPS and TSR conditions, which are capable of paying out independently.
However, 2018 awards will be subject to the additional requirement that the Committee will only confirm the vesting result based on the EPS and TSR conditions if it considers the total level of vesting to be consistent with the Companys overall performance during the 3 year performance period.
Relevant disclosures relating to the factors considered by the Committee will be included in relevant Annual report on remuneration.
For the EPS condition, the chart below shows that awards will vest on a linear scale from 0% to 100% for average annual EPS growth of 3% to 10%, respectively 2017: 3% to 10%.
The range of targets is considered to be appropriately demanding noting i that vesting takes place from 0% as opposed to the market norm of 25%, ii the uncertain and challenging macroeconomic environment and iii the baseline 2017 EPS result benefited from a significant but unsustainable profit contribution from the Surfactants business, now held for sale.
The potential impact of future exchange rate volatility, differing forecast growth rates in our key markets and the cyclicality within our business segments necessitates a broad target range that is considered demanding at the top end of the range but potentially achievable at the lower end but with modest vesting potential.
As a result of these factors, the Committee was comfortable that the target range is appropriately demanding.
Vesting schedule EPS performance condition Vesting schedule TSR performance condition Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting Percentage of award subject to TSR performance vesting 100 100 100% vesting 100% vesting at Upper quartile above 10% p. a.
80 80 or better 60 60 40 40 20 20 No vesting No vesting 3.85% vesting below 3% p. a. below Median at Median 0 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10% 11% 12% 0 Median Upper quartile Elementis position relative to the FTSE All Share Index Average EPS growth % p. a. excluding investment trusts For the TSR condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear scale from 3.85% to 100% for median to upper quartile performance, respectively.
The TSR condition will be measured against the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts.
The TSR peer group was reviewed as part of the Committees policy review with the Committee concluding that the continued use of the FTSE All Share Index was appropriate given Elementis sits towards the middle of the index in terms of size and the broad range of sectors included in the peer group ensures that the potential for external events to result in extreme vesting results is minimised.
The Committee also considered the introduction of a bespoke peer group but concluded that there was an insufficient number of direct comparators to provide a robust TSR comparator group.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION For the year to 31 December 2018, the fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be as shown below: 2018 2017 Chairman 185,470 180,075 Non-Executive Director 48,750 47,330 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 8,470 8,230 Chairman of Audit or Remuneration Committee 8,470 8,230 Fees were increased by 3% in line with the UK salaried workforce increase in 2017.
68 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information REMUNERATION PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS FOR 2017 AUDITED Although the Company reports its results in US dollars, the remainder of this report on remuneration is presented in pounds sterling because the majority of the Directors are UK based and paid in pounds sterling.
A breakdown of the Directors emoluments for the year ended 31 December 2017 is set out in the table below.
He received an annual salary of $848k 2016: $825k.
His pension comprises 20% of his salary and employer contributions to defined contribution pension schemes.
Bonus shown is equivalent to 139.5% of salary.
Other payments for 2017 relate to the tranche of his buyout award that will vest on 7 March 2018 and has been valued using the average share price for the 3 months ended 31 December 2017 and based on 91.4% vesting.
2 Bonus shown is equivalent to 117.5% of salary.
3 T axable benefits for Paul Waterman consist of a car or car allowance, private health care, dental, life assurance, accidental death and disablement cover, long term disability insurance.
The increase in benefits shown over 2016 is largely due to a $30,000 contribution towards costs incurred in having to prepare and file tax returns in the UK for 2016 17 and 2017 18 as a result of him being required to spend greater time than envisaged on appointment in the UK as a consequence of the Reignite Growth strategy.
Taxable benefits for Ralph Hewins consist of a car allowance, private health care and life assurance.
4 Sandra Boss was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2017.
5 Dorothee Deuring was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2017.
6 Andrew Christie stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 25 April 2017.
7 As required by remuneration reporting regulations, the valuation of the Executive Directors LTIP awards for 2016 which related to buyout awards which vested on 7 March 2017 has been restated using the actual share price on the date of vesting and dividends paid that had been incurred during the period of grant of the award and the date of delivery.
8 Including 2 former Executive Directors who also served during 2016 David Dutro and Brian Taylorson, this amount becomes 2,750k.
David Dutros and Brian Taylorsons remuneration was disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
69 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DETERMINATION OF ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOME FOR PERFORMANCE IN 2017 This section shows the performance targets set in respect of the 2017 annual bonus scheme, the level of performance achieved and the amount of bonus payable to Directors.
The bonus targets were tested against the full year results and the full year bonus payment will be paid in Q1.
Half of the amount vesting will be paid in cash and the other half paid in the form of a share award deferred for 2 years.
FY 2017 bonus plan targets Percentage of salary vesting Relative weighting of performance Percent of Paul Waterman Ralph Hewins Full year bonus conditions Threshold Plan Stretch Actual result maximum CEO CFO Maximum as % salary 150% 125% PBT $ million 50% 97.9 105.8 115.6 115.2 98% 73.5% 61.25% AWC % 20% 23.4 22.4 21.4 18.8 100% 30% 25% Non-financial 30% n a n a 36% 31.25% Total full year payment 100% 139.5% 117.5% Bonus payments under the adjusted Group profit before tax and AWC performance condition last year increased on a linear basis with 0% payable for threshold performance, 50% for plan performance and 100% for stretch performance.
The Committee exercised discretion to adjust the original Group profit before tax and AWC targets threshold, plan and stretch for the following: SummitReheis acquisition, sale of the US Colourants business and for amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
The adjustments were made to ensure that the condition was no more or less challenging than when initially set e. g. the Group profit before tax target was increased to reflect the expected additional earnings arising from the SummitReheis acquisition and the Committee was satisfied that the adjustments achieved this objective and provided a fair measure of the underlying performance during the year.
For the 2017 annual bonus challenging individual objectives were established by the Committee for each Executive Director that reflected activities and initiatives intended to improve the performance of the Group.
The objectives established and the assessment of performance is shown in the table below.
The targets were weighted one third based on safety, compliance and risk management, one third based on people management and one third on the wider strategic targets.
Based on the performance delivered against the targets set for non-financial targets, the Committee determined that Paul Waterman had met 36% of salary equivalent to 80% of maximum opportunity and Ralph Hewins had met 31.25% of salary equivalent to 83.33% of maximum opportunity.
The basis of determining the individual scores is summarised in the table below using a colour coding for ease of reference: Achieved in full or predominantly achieved Partially achieved Not achieved 2017 Bonus Assessment for CEO and CFO Common objectives to both CEO and CFO Summary Measure Objectives Performance scoring Safety, compliance Reducing the injury rate to below 0.81 The LTA target of 2 was achieved with a total of 2 and risk management per 200,000 hours worked excluding along with the target relating to eliminating Tier 2 SummitReheis since their approach to or 3 environmental incidents.
However, despite measuring injuries was on a different improved performance versus the prior 2 years, basis to the approach used at Elementis the recordable injury rate was marginally above resulting in insufficient data to enable the target at 0.88 their inclusion in an adjusted target : Reducing the number of severe injuries or Lost Time Accidents LTA to 2 or less: Improving environmental performance such that there were no Tier 2 or 3 environmental incidents Actions to deliver Growth in global Personal Care and The Personal Care performance target was Pursue best growth Asia Coatings operating profit and achieved in full but the challenging environment opportunities integration of SummitReheis in Asia resulted in the target not being met.
strategic priority SummitReheis was integrated ahead of the Boards planning and cost expectations 70 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Summary Measure Objectives Performance scoring Actions to deliver Addressing disadvantaged assets: and Targets relating to the disadvantaged assets Pursue supply chain completing the working capital WC were achieved which included the sale of US transformation strategic review Colourants: closure of Jersey City site and the strategic priority announced sale of Surfactants all in line with the Boards planning.
Strong progress was achieved in relation to implementing a revised WC strategy Actions to deliver Effective working of core processes Targets relating to improved controls of working Create a culture of including capital expenditure and capital, product rationalisation and performance high performance performance management management were delivered in line with the strategic priority Boards approved plans People management Improving gender diversity in Targets relating to gender diversity were met recruitment processes and delivering as evidenced by improvements in the gender a step change in talent management mix in senior positions and the development and succession planning of succession planning profiles was completed CEO specific objectives Summary Measure Objective Performance scoring Actions to deliver Implementing global key account GKA Targets relating to the appointment of GKA Pursue best growth management managers were met.
The planned roll out of new opportunities processes and capability are in progress strategic priority Actions to deliver Sustaining innovation leadership: new Targets relating to the globalisation of the R&D Innovate for high innovation pipeline process: and function and the implementation of innovation margins and technology driven growth strategy process with a strong pipeline were achieved distinctiveness strategic priority CFO specific objectives Summary Measure Objective Performance scoring Group tax strategy New Group tax strategy: UK and US Targets relating to achieving Board approval of a and pension scheme pension scheme strategy new Group tax strategy, pension funding strategy and investment strategy were achieved DIRECTORS SHARE BASED AWARDS Determination of 2015 LTIP awards The threshold EPS and TSR targets were not met and therefore these awards have lapsed in full.
The current Executive Directors do not hold any 2015 LTIP awards.
Buyout awards in respect of Paul Watermans recruitment The Committee agreed to make replacement awards to Paul Waterman as explained in last years report, representing all equity related remuneration being forfeited by him on joining Elementis.
Tranche 2 of the award will vest on 7 March 2018 to the extent the performance conditions are met applicable to 42.5% of the award.
A portion of the Tranche 2 award 57.5% or 129,745 shares was subject only to a service requirement of 2 years from the date of award reflecting a minimum vesting value of the forfeited awards.
The balance of the award 42.5% or 95,900 shares was subject to performance conditions which were in nature similar and equivalently challenging to those of the forfeited awards.
Based on the performance assessment set out below, 79.7% of the performance based award will vest, a total of 91.4% including the service requirement.
Dividend rights At the time of vesting Paul Waterman is entitled to a payment in respect of dividends that would have been paid on the shares during the period of grant of the award and the date of delivery of the shares.
Performance related outcome in respect of 42.5% of the award or 95,900 shares : Cash targets $m 30% weight Threshold Payout Plan Payout Stretch Payout Result Payout 81.1 20% 86.1 25% 91.1 30% 90.8 29.7% 2017 operating cash excluding SummitReheis.
71 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED HSE targets 30% weight Goals Payout Result Payout Environmental 15% Achieved in full the targets were to reduce the number of Tier 2, Tier 2a 15% performance in 2017 and Tier 3 environmental incidents and or prosecutions to below the 3 year vs set metrics average.
Since no Tier 2 and 3 incidents were recorded and Tier 2a had 9 recorded versus a 3 year average of 10.67, the targets were achieved in full.
Safety performance in 15% Achieved in full the targets were to reduce the safety recordable incidents 15% 2017 vs set metrics and the number of LTAs below the 3 year average.
These were achieved in full with rates of 11 and 2 versus the 3 year averages of 11.67 and 3.33. Business operational targets 40% weight Goals Payout Result Payout Business segment and 20% Not met 0% central cost targets Talent management 20% Achieved in full implementation of Group wide incentive and executive 20% and succession talent management programs following Board approval and delivered planning objectives on time Total performance 79.7% elements achieved Buyout awards in respect of Ralph Hewinss recruitment As reported in last years report, Ralph Hewins was awarded 84,434 nil cost options to buyout forfeited share based remuneration when he left his previous employer to join Elementis.
These options have no performance conditions reflecting the profile of the forfeited awards but are subject to a 2 year holding period.
In addition, part of Ralphs forfeited remuneration included an amount of his bonus which would have been deferred for 3 years had he not left his former employer and these were bought out and matched through an award of 15,977 nil cost options which vest after 3 years no performance conditions were attached to these reflecting the vesting profile of the forfeited remuneration.
Face value A summary of of award performance Type of Number at grant End of the targets and 1 share award Grant date of awards 000s Percentage that would vest at threshold performance vesting period measures Nil cost option 07.03.17 84,434 246 No performance conditions 07.03.2017 N A Nil cost option 07.03.17 15,977 46 No performance conditions 07.03.2020 N A 1 T he share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 291.00 pence, being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Annual LTIP awards granted in the year audited LTIP awards made in 2017 are set out in the table below and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions split 50:50 over the 3 years to 31 December 2019 as shown in the table below.
Face value The end A summary of of award date of the performance Type of Number at grant Percentage that would vest performance targets and 1 Award holder share award Grant date of awards 000s at threshold performance period measures Paul Nil cost option 03.04.17 469,024 1,356 0% of the award 31.12.2019 Average annual Waterman restricted subject to the EPS EPS growth of 3% stock unit condition and 3.85% to 10% and TSR of the award subject performance of Ralph Nil cost option 03.04.17 202,366 585 to the TSR condition.
median to upper Hewins quartile.
1 T he share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 289.20 pence, being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Details of awards in savings based share schemes are shown in the table overleaf.
72 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information SOURCING SHARES FOR OUR SHARE PLANS Employee share plans comply with the Investment Associations guidelines on dilution which provide that overall issuance of shares under all plans should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10% of the Companys issued share capital over any 10 year period, with a further limitation of 5% in any 10 year period on discretionary plans.
Based on the number of awards that remain outstanding as at the year end, the Companys headroom for all plans is 4.7% and for discretionary plans 3.9% of issued share capital.
Paul Waterman retained 130,360 shares following the exercise and sale of options over 205,793 shares granted under tranche 1 of his buyout award granted under the LTIP at a price of 295.1 pence giving him a pre-tax gain of c. 607k.
B LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions.
The same EPS growth annual growth of 3% to 10% and relative TSR performance conditions apply in respect of the awards made in 2016 and 2017.
These awards ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and would expire on the tenth anniversary.
Vesting conditions as set out on page 72.
C Conditional share award under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
Structured as restricted stock units for Paul Waterman and nil cost options for Ralph Hewins.
Vesting conditions as set out on page 70.
D Replacement awards structured as nil cost options made under standalone arrangements that borrow terms from the LTIP as amended.
Vesting conditions for the 2017 award as set out on page 72.
E Replacement awards structured as nil cost options made under standalone arrangements that borrow terms from the DSBP as amended.
F O ptions held under the UK SAYE scheme.
This is a savings based share option scheme that is not subject to performance conditions.
Further details on this scheme is shown in note 24 to the Consolidated financial statements on page 124.
73 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The interests of the Directors including any connected persons during the year and from the year end to 27 February 2018 in the issued shares of the Company were: Share interests Acquired Disposed Shareholding during during level met as at 1 2 01.01.17 2017 2017 31.12.17 31.12.17 Executive Directors 3 4 Paul Waterman 35,000 145,360 180,360 No 4 Ralph Hewins No Non-Executive Directors Andrew Duff 50,000 50,000 n a Sandra Boss 10,000 10,000 n a Dorothee Deuring 10,000 10,000 n a Steve Good 10,000 10,000 n a Anne Hyland 10,000 10,000 n a Nick Salmon 10,000 10,000 n a Past Director Andrew Christie 10,000 10,000 n a 1 Or from date of appointment if later.
2 Or as at date of resignation if earlier.
3 Paul Waterman retained 130,360 shares following the exercise and sale of options over 205,793 shares granted under tranche 1 of his buyout award granted under terms borrowed from the LTIP at a price of 295.1 pence giving him a pre-tax gain of c. 607k.
4 As per the Remuneration policy, share awards vesting over time will contribute to meeting the shareholding level.
The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2017 was 288.1 pence 2016: 277.4 pence and the range during 2017 was 259.1 pence to 317.1 pence 2016: 180.6 pence to 277.4 pence.
As at 27 February 2018, the Trustee of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT held 869,207 shares 2017: 455,000.
As Executive Directors, Paul Waterman and Ralph Hewins, as potential beneficiaries under the ESOT, are deemed to have an interest in any shares that become held in the ESOT.
As at 27 February 2018, no person who was then a Director had any interest in any derivative or other financial instrument relating to the Companys shares and, so far as the Company is aware, none of their connected persons had such an interest.
Between 31 December 2017 and 27 February 2018 there was no change in the relevant interests of any such Directors nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons.
Other than their service contracts, letters of appointment and letters of indemnity with the Company, none of the Directors had an interest in any contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS The table below shows the breakdown of the retirement benefits of the Executive Directors, comprising employer contributions to defined contribution plans and salary supplements paid in cash.
Paul Waterman received a salary supplement of 20% of his basic salary and participated in the defined contribution plans, the details of which can be found in the Remuneration policy report.
The amount shown in the table below represents employer matching contributions and both this and the salary supplement are included in the Directors emoluments table shown on page 69.
Ralph Hewins received a salary supplement of 25% of his basic salary in lieu of any other retirement benefit pro-rated for 2016.
The amount received is shown in the table below and in the Directors emoluments table.
DIRECTORS RETIREMENT BENEFITS AUDITED Defined contribution plans Salary supplement 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 Paul Waterman 37 23 132 117 Ralph Hewins n a n a 84 25 74 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE AND CHANGE IN CEOS PAY The graph below illustrates the Companys total shareholder return for the 9 years ended 31 December 2017, relative to the FTSE 250 Index, along with a table illustrating the change in CEO pay since 2009.
The table also details the varying award vesting rates year on year for the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
As the Companys shares are denominated and listed in pence, the graph below looks at the total return to 31 December 2017 of 100 invested in Elementis on 31 December 2008 compared with that of the total return of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was selected for the purpose of providing a relative comparison of performance because the Company is a member of it.
2 Relates to Paul Watermans replacement awards which vested in March 2017.
3 Relates to Paul Watermans replacement awards vesting in March 2018.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the Group together with the total dividends paid in respect of 2017 and the preceding financial year.
REMUNERATION AGAINST DISTRIBUTIONS m 2017 2016 Change Remuneration paid to all employees 1 see note 8 to the Consolidated financial statements 86.7 77.7 11.6% 2 Total dividends paid in the year 61.7 55.1 12.0% 1 The amounts for 2017 and 2016 have been converted from dollars into pounds sterling using the average USD GBP exchange rates for those years.
2 2017 and 2016 include a special dividend payment of $38.7m 31.0m and $37.0m 27.1m respectively.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEOS PAY The table below shows the change from 2016 to 2017 of the CEOs pay with regard to the 3 elements set out below and the corresponding change of these elements across all employees within the Group.
1 % Change from 2016 to 2017 2 Salaries Benefits Bonus 3 CEO pay total remuneration 7.4% 47.8% 312.1% 4 All employees 16.1% 22.4% 412.5% 1 All percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into pounds sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
2 Change in bonus relates to payments in respect of the relevant financial years.
3 Includes remuneration for Paul Waterman and David Dutro for the period in which each was CEO during 2016 as disclosed in the 2016 Annual report.
75 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The resolution to approve the 2016 Directors remuneration report excluding the remuneration policy was passed on a poll at the Companys last AGM held on 25 April 2017.
The current remuneration policy was approved at the AGM held on 22 April 2015.
Set out in the table below are the votes cast by proxy in respect of these resolutions.
Votes for % For Votes against % Against Votes withheld 2016 Directors remuneration report 2017 AGM 306,052,827 84.18 57,504,708 15.82 2,877,541 2014 Directors remuneration policy 2015 AGM 322,589,945 98.93 3,497,051 1.07 24,478,522 Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMMITTEES MEMBERSHIP AND OPERATION Committee composition The Chairman and members of the Committee are shown on pages 40 to 41, together with their biographical information.
8 meetings were held during 2017 and the attendance records of Committee members are shown on page 55.
All meetings were also attended by the Chairman of the Board and the CEO.
Other Non-Executive Directors who are not members of the Committee have a standing invite to attend and the CFO and Chief Human Resources Officer also attend meetings by invitation, as appropriate.
The Executive Directors are not present when their own remuneration arrangements are discussed or, if they are, they do not participate in the decision making process.
Terms of reference A full description of the Committees terms of reference is available on the Companys website at www.
com and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and Executive Directors and keeping these under review.
Making awards under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP, including setting performance targets.
Monitoring and making recommendations on the design, structure and level of remuneration for all senior executives, ensuring that these are appropriately linked to the Groups strategy and aligned with the Boards risk profile.
Evaluation, training and development On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the evaluation of the Board.
Following the evaluation last year, there were no major issues to report.
During 2017, Committee members attended various external seminars on the latest developments on executive remuneration and all Board members received briefings from the Company Secretary and the Committees remuneration advisers throughout the year, to keep them updated on topical matters and developments relating to executive remuneration.
Remuneration advisers As reported in the Committee Chairmans annual statement, Korn Ferry replaced New Bridge Street as its external advisers with effect from April 2017.
The Committee is satisfied that there was no over reliance on Korn Ferry and that advice received was independent.
Korn Ferry are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operate under the code of conduct.
As well as being remuneration adviser, Korn Ferry also supported the Nomination Committee in the recruitment process that led to the appointments of Sandra Boss and Dorothee Deuring as Non-Executive Directors in the early part of the year.
Fees paid to New Bridge Street during the year was 13,732 excluding VAT.
Fees paid to Korn Ferry for remuneration advisory services in 2017 were 75,660 excluding VAT and related to the review of the remuneration policy, carrying out a shareholder consultation programme, advice in the design and drafting of a new LTIP and a new UK all employee plan.
The Committee are satisfied that the advice received by Korn Ferry was independent and objective.
Management also retained Korn Ferry in its review of Board level incentives and in carrying out various benchmarking studies.
Those fees are not included in the figure above.
AUDITABLE SECTIONS OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The sections of the Annual report on remuneration that are required to be audited by law are as follows: Remuneration payable to Directors for 2017 and Retirement benefits: and tables headed Annual LTIP awards granted in the year, Directors scheme interests, Directors share interests and Directors retirement benefits.
STEVE GOOD Chairman, Remuneration Committee 27 February 2018 76 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
