70 Directors Report: Governance Nomination Committee Report continued The ESG briefings allow the Board to assess the significant ESG risks tothe Board succession Companys short and long term value and to identify any opportunitiesthat There were no changes in the composition of the Board during 2017 but a may arise to enhance value.
Details of ESG risks and value-enhancement number of changes, mentioned earlier in this Report, were announced early in pursuits appear in the Sustainability Report which willshortly be available on 2018, some of which have already taken place and some which will follow our website at www.
co. uk corporate sustainability upon the conclusion of the 2018 AGM: The Chairman, Chief Executive and Secretary meet sufficiently in advance of Gwyn Burr was appointed as an Independent Non Executive Director on each Board meeting in order to ensure action points from previous meetings 1 February 2018 and brings with her from her executive background and also have been implemented and to prepare the agenda and matters to be more latterly her various non executive positions considerable experience and covered at the next and at future Board and Committee meetings as expertise, principally in the area of customer service, and will therefore appropriate.
The agenda and minutes for the Audit, Nomination and enhance the overall skill sets of the Board.
On her appointment to the Board, Remuneration Committee meetings are agreed by the Secretary with the Gwyn joined the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, where her relevant Committee Chairman.
experience of past and current service on plc boards and remuneration committees will be of considerable benefit.
Composition of the Board Rob Rowley stood down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that proposed appointments 10 January 2018 and was succeeded in this position by Humphrey Singer.
to the Board, and succession planning, are based on merit, and judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard to the benefits of Rob will stand down as an Independent Non Executive Director at the diversity and inclusiveness, including gender, age, ethnicity, thought and conclusion of the AGM on 26 April 2018 and will be succeeded as Senior experience.
Following the appointment of Gwyn Burr as an Independent Non Independent Director on that date by Kate Barker.
Executive Director on 1 February 2018, the Board consists of ten Directors, The composition and performance of the Board and its Committees were three of whom are women, representing 30% of the Board.
That percentage considered during the year and it was concluded that the Board and each will become 33% when Rob Rowley stands down from the Board, as Committee will, in light of the changes outlined above, continue to previously announced, at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The Board is function effectively.
therefore moving towards the increased target proposed by the Davies Report The Committee believes that the balance of the Board, consisting of 33% female representation by 2020.
The Board aspires to reach and ofaChairman, three Executive Directors and six Independent Non Executive maintain that level of representation, whilst continuing to also have due regard Directors, recently augmented by Gwyn Burrs wide-ranging additional skill sets, to other aspects of diversity as outlined above.
will continue to provide the right blend of experience, expertise and challenge in The Committee also reviews the time commitments of each Director both prior to order to take the Company forward in line with its strategy whilst ensuring and all appointments and periodically so as to ensure that all Directors can discharge maintaining good governance and best practice, and will continue to do so after their responsibilities effectively in line with the requirements ofthe Code.
This will, however, be kept under regular review in line with the guidance set out in the Code.
Succession and contingency planning At the AGM of the Company to be held on 26 April 2018, all Directors will During the year, succession planning for people at all levels of the organisation again be subject to re-election or, in the case of Gwyn Burr, to election, by has continued to be a key area of focus for the Committee.
As part of this, shareholders in accordance with the Code.
Biographical details of each both the Board and the Nomination Committee have visibility of a wide range Director can be found on page 58. of employees with leadership potential together with their individual development plans.
Each Divisional Chairman of the housing business chairs a divisional Talent Management Board TMB comprising senior executives of the Division together with HR representatives.
Each TMB then makes recommendations to the Group Talent Board which is chaired by the Chief Executive.
These Boards regularly review succession planning and related development and training requirements across the UK Group.
Further actions to support succession planning include the development of career paths linked to experience, exposure and education: an assessment and development centre: and the promotion of the Companys mentoring scheme.
We are also focusing upon recruiting individuals from a wider range of backgrounds, experience and industries at all levels.
Succession planning remains a key area of focus across all levels of the organisation.
During the year, the Committee considered in detail short and long term succession planning for Directors and key executives, together with appropriate development plans.
The Group Management Team GMT regularly reviews the Companys succession plans and talent pipelines, with further action to support these areas continuing.
The Committee also considered contingency and longer term succession planning for all senior roles, linked to talent development and targeted training programmes.
Contingency planning concerns the Companys and the Boards preparedness for, and responsiveness to, sudden and unexpected loss or non-availability of a key Board member, or one or more key executives.
Itinvolves the identification of suitable individuals within the Company who, either singly or in concert with another, can quickly assume a key role and provide effective support until the incumbent returns to work or, in appropriate cases, a successor can be identified and appointed.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Employee diversity business-related issues that are important to them.
As part of this forum, the business has visited a number of universities and schools which included Diversity and inclusion remained an area of clear focus throughout 2017 which the females into STEM and construction event and Glasgow Caledonian will continue into 2018 and beyond.
A Working Party which includes a variety Universities Think Ahead Project.
of members from across the business has been overseeing progress towards achieving the Companys diversity and inclusion strategy and implementing Gained exposure for the business and the work of the young persons forum new initiatives so as to improve our performance in these key areas and at the young panel session at The Herald and Gen Analytics Diversity comply with the Companys Diversity Policy as set out on pages 72 to 73.
strategy focuses on the challenges faced in developing an inclusive and The Group has progressed work with the Royal National Institute for the Blind diverse workforce with each regional business making commitment.
This RNIB to audit the Companys website for ease of access for visually includes working with specialist external bodies to maximise all impaired users and make any necessary changes.
opportunities, including: During 2017 we have worked with an external partner to undertake a detailed st 21 century leadership review of accessibility for disabled people, whether employees: customers: or Ensuring that our leaders understand their role in developing a more visitors: to our offices: sites: sales centres: and show homes around the UK.
diverse and inclusive culture and have the relevant training and support The report will be analysed and any appropriate recommendations to achieve this implemented during 2018.
Employer of choice With regard to gender, as at 31 December 2017: Ensuring that our working environment, polices, procedures and The Board consisted of nine Directors, two of whom are women 22%.
At the development and progression opportunities, support greater diversity time of writing this report the Board consists of ten Directors, three of whom and inclusivity are women 30%.
Following the Companys AGM on 26 April the Board will once again consist of nine Directors, three of whom will be women 33%.
Expanding our reach Developing broader recruitment channels, understanding and The GMT, which is effectively the Executive Board of Taylor Wimpey UK embracing the diversity of our customers and workplace, and Limited, our main operating company, consisted of 10 Executives, three of improving our engagement with them whom are women 30%.
Excluding one woman who held an interim Regional Managing Director The Board believes that by embracing diversity and inclusiveness the position, there is one woman out of 24 Regional Managing Directors 4%.
Company will better understand how peoples differences and similarities can From 1 April 2018 this will increase to two women 8% following the be utilised for the benefit of not only the Company but most importantly also appointment of the interim Regional Managing Director into a Regional for individuals, society as a whole, and our customers.
It is the Boards view Managing Director role.
that having a diverse workforce will improve the Companys ability to deliver its strategy: the homes that it builds: and its services.
Women across the Group account for 32% 2016: 32% of the workforce.
Diversity has continued to be a key item on the overall UK governance agenda 28% 2016: 31% of new starters with the Company during 2017 are women.
Within Taylor Wimpey, diversity has remained a key priority for While we are making reasonable progress, we of course recognise that we still the Boards agenda and this will continue to be the case during 2018. have more work to do in order to fulfil our overall diversity ambitions and, as Although the Board will continue to appoint on merit, we recognise that stated on page 69, it is a priority for 2018 to achieve further progress in this area.
boards will generally perform better when they include top quality people from a range of backgrounds and perspectives.
Diversity will continue to be a key consideration when contemplating the composition and refreshing of the Board and indeed our senior and wider management teams.
As noted opposite, the Company has put in place systems to measure and monitor diversity around the Group more effectively.
The data becoming available from these improved systems has assisted in designing and implementing a number of improvements to Group terms and conditions which we believe should facilitate access to, and success at, work for all, such as the following: A review of Gender Pay.
From April 2017 the government has introduced gender pay gap reporting for all companies with more than 250 employees in the UK and we have met those requirements and our data will shortly be published.
At Taylor Wimpey we are committed to creating a diverse and inclusive place to work.
Our fair and transparent approach to recruitment and our people is one of the defining factors in Taylor Wimpeys culture and future workforce.
Embracing diversity enables Taylor Wimpey to succeed in a competitive market.
We have implemented a Diversity and Inclusion Strategy which focuses on gender equality as well as other key promoting workforce policies that highlight positive approaches to employee diversity.
Our action plan that supports gender equality sets out measures to challenge the traditionally male dominated culture of the construction and home building industries.
Implementing a flexible working policy in our Southern Counties regional business.
As a result of the initial trial a number of further businesses have also introduced revised flexible working arrangements which have been received positively.
Established a Young Persons Forum in our West Scotland regional business in order to give young members of the business a forum to discuss taylorwimpey.
co. uk 72 Directors Report: Governance Nomination Committee Report continued Progress of our diversity policy The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity policy, benchmarked against appropriate targets, are set out below.
Progress is measured and monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
The Company is also committed to ensuring that our people are free from any direct or indirect discrimination, harassment, bullying or any other form of victimisation.
Our grievance and harassment policies ensure that any reported incidents are investigated.
In addition, our whistleblowing policy encourages employees to speak up, including through an independent Safecall telephone facility, against any inappropriate practices or behaviour and we regularly publicise the policy to all staff and workers on site.
Diversity policy Strategy Progress Taylor Wimpey operates in diverse We will examine our A Working Party continues to drive delivery of our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and culture and practices Action Plan.
Significant progress continues to be made.
We believe that embracing this diversity will enable todetermine what further It has always been the intention to expand the Working Party to ensure that it continues actions can be taken us to succeed through a workforce to reflect a diverse representation from across the Group.
During 2017 we sent a request that is inclusive, creative and toimprove diversity for new members which attracted nearly 100 applicants.
Diversity covers many As a consequence, the Working Party has been extended to a membership of nine aspects.
We have defined diversity TaylorWimpey.
members and the decision taken to introduce a separate BAME working group of 10 to mean that we actively embrace members moving forward into 2018.
This BAME working group will be focusing on how the business and local we can extend our reach to ensure that we attract and develop employees from a wider communities in which we operate and more inclusive talent pool.
and will strive to reflect their Building on the comprehensive training sessions delivered to the management teams of richness and character to include our regional businesses and Head Office functions in 2016, as planned further sessions such aspects as gender, race, were delivered in 2017 to newly-appointed Directors and Managing Directors.
disability and religion but also diversity of thought, background We also launched our Diversity and Induction e-learning to all employees in 2017.
two modules one for all employees and one specifically for line managers help users understand in more detail our commitment to building a more diverse and inclusive workforce as well as the roles and responsibilities they have in supporting our commitments.
These are now key modules of our induction programme for new starters.
To monitor progress we anticipate repeating unconscious bias testing across the business in 2018 and comparing the results to 2016.
The Chairman of the Working Party and the Group HR Director continue to periodically contact all our Managing Directors to ensure the commitment to diversity and inclusion remains a key focus.
Managing diversity is about valuing We will identify people We are proud of our involvement with the Leonard Cheshire Disability Change 100 everyone as an individual valuing management practices programme which we are committed to continuing to support.
people as our employees, that assist a diverse In 2017 we took five interns with a range of disabilities, both physical and mental, who customers and clients.
People workforce to achieve their worked across a wide range of disciplines.
have different needs, values and full potential.
We have continued to promote our Employer of Choice and diversity agenda through beliefs.
Our people management We will use our numerous publications and recently participated in the Annual Diversity Awards that were practice demands that Community Engagement sponsored by The Bank of Scotland, Glasgow Herald, and Genalytics.
employment propositions are both Programme to heighten Our West Scotland regional business was nominated for the Recruitment of Talent consistently fair but also flexible awareness of personal award and sponsored the Best Community Project award.
and inclusive in ways that assist interaction and valuing our people while supporting our Taylor Wimpey are also participating in The Hampton Alexander Review, an independent individuals.
review body which aims to increase the number of women on UK boards.
We will increase the There has been a comprehensive review of our current dress code across the business.
opportunities for young As a consequence, we have developed a new range, with a wider range of sizing, and a people to join the more modern feel and a commitment given to provide any item of clothing not available in Company and will the range for personal reasons e. g. religious belief.
During 2018 we are committed to promote continuous reviewing the provision of maternity wear, to ensure that it is fit for purpose and inclusive.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Diversity policy Strategy Progress We believe that everyone should We will ensure that all We recruited 190 apprentices 2016: 147, including 53 site management apprentices have the right to equal access to managers involved in 2016: 54, 28 management trainees 2016: 30 and 31 graduates 2016: 20. employment and, when in our recruitment and selection We recruited an increased number of employees with disabilities.
Working with key employ, to equal pay and access receive training that partners we hope to increase more permanent and secondment opportunities for people to training and career development.
incorporates the areas with disabilities.
ofdiversity and The new HR Information System is better capturing data relating to all aspects of diversity promotingequality.
We will extend our During 2018, we intend to update the diversity and inclusion data we hold on our recruitment sources in employees in the system.
This was always an activity planned 18 months into the delivery order to attract of our Diversity and Inclusion action plan, as we continue to raise awareness, and embed a more diverse range a more diverse and inclusive culture.
We continued to partner with a number of specific diversity partners in 2017 with anobjective to drive the attraction and development of a more diverse and .
We are continuing the diversity discussion group meetings with the Chief Executive, Group HR Director and different sections of the workforce, to further embed diversity and inclusiveness at all levels of the Company.
Diversity and Inclusion is also discussed as part of the bi-annual talent and succession reviews by the three Divisional Chairmen with the Chief Executive and Group HR Director.
We are keen to ensure that our website is accessible to those with sight impairment and in conjunction with the Royal National Institute for the Blind we are currently undertaking a website accessibility audit.
We are committed to ensuring that We will encourage our A specific focus of the Companys whistleblowing campaign is on diversity, encouraging our people are free from any direct people to speak out and employees to speak up against any inappropriate practices or behaviour.
or indirect discrimination, report any direct or Our grievance policy ensures that any reports of harassment or bullying are investigated harassment or bullying.
indirect discrimination, and acted upon.
We will not tolerate any behaviour harassment or bullying.
We will act promptly in addressing anyinappropriate behaviour orpractice.
We acknowledge that we must Diversity will be promoted Diversity is a core message within our strategy: a main item at our Executive and Regional continue to promote diversity in from the highest level and Management meetings: and is a standing agenda item at GMT meetings.
order to create an organisation that we will ensure that our In order to support each employee to maximise their performance and achieve their own attracts, supports and promotes people understand the personal goals we have designed a Cultural Principles framework where we describe the the broadest range of talent.
benefits ofhaving a behaviours and attitudes we believe are required for effective performance in order to Establishing an organisational diverse and deliver our vision, mission and values.
Encouraging and embracing diversity is an integral culture with diversity as a core inclusiveworkforce.
value will enable individuals to The Careers section of our website includes a dedicated Diversity and Inclusion section reach their full potential and provide highlighting our focus on this area.
the best service to our customers.
During 2017, we introduced a female talent forum.
Feedback was incredibly positive in terms of creating an environment where individuals could share personal challenges and development areas.
This will continue through 2018. taylorwimpey.
co. uk 74 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report for 2017 for and on behalf of the Taylor Wimpey Committee .
I would like to emphasise that the Committee remains very mindful of the Kate Barker understandable focus on executive pay and the increasing importance of Kevin Beeston Chairman of the considering remuneration from both a broader employee and a wide societal Chairman Remuneration Committee perspective.
The Committee is regularly apprised on market practice and corporate governance developments, including the proposals to strengthen the employee, customer and wider stakeholder voice and a new UK Corporate Governance Code to apply to reporting years beginning on or after Main objective 1 January 2019.
As mentioned elsewhere in this Annual Report on pages 23, To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for 51, 81 and 95, in this context, we are pleased to have established the Taylor developing policy on executive remuneration to deliver the Companys Wimpey National Employee Forum.
Although it is still early days, I very much strategy and value for shareholders: and to agree, monitor and report look forward to working with this important new body.
on the remuneration of individual Directors and senior executives.
The Committee has continued its much-valued and long-established practice of engaging and consulting with its key institutional investors and 2017 developments with shareholder representative bodies about Executive Director remuneration.
Finalised and implemented the Companys new Remuneration As in previous years, the Committee has taken account of all the feedback Policy which shareholders approved at the 2017 AGM.
which it has received and is, as ever, very grateful for the constructive Following a formal process, appointed new advisers to the engagement that has taken place with regard to the 2017 outcomes and Remuneration Committee.
Shareholders approved the Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM, with a vote in favour of more than 98% and we are Considered the leasehold review from a remuneration perspective.
privileged to have had a strong track record of shareholder support on the Continued to increase alignment with shareholders through Companys remuneration matters.
We will consider our Remuneration Policy increased participation in our all-employee share plans.
again in 2018 to ensure that it remains relevant to the business strategy In line with corporate governance developments, reviewed the which will be refreshed in 2018, as outlined in the Chief Executives Statement ways in which employee views will be taken into account in relation on page 13. to pay at Board level.
The Committee remains firmly committed to ensuring that the remuneration of 2018 objectives the Executive Directors and the senior management team supports and drives the Taylor Wimpey strategy.
Our remuneration is based on a framework which To continue to increase alignment with shareholders through both challenges and motivates the senior management team to deliver the encouraging participation in our all-employee share plans.
strategy and value for our shareholders and wider stakeholder interests.
To continue to review and seek to improve ways in which The table below summarises the performance measures in our current employee views are taken into account in relation to pay at Board incentive plans and how these link to the Taylor Wimpey strategy and align the level and consider how the other recommendations from the FRC interests of executives with shareholders: review of the UK Corporate Governance Code should be incorporated.
Measures in our variable payplans Weighting Link to strategic objectives To review gender pay analysis across the Company and to finalise Executive Incentive and publish the Companys first gender pay reporting in April 2018.
Scheme Bonus EIS Remuneration Committee EBIT 40% Increase profit sustainably for the long term to support growth and dividend payments The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Kate Barker.
All members Operating profit 20% Our long term strategic target is to earn top quartile of the Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as required conversion into cashflow levels of margin.
Currently we are focusing on by the Code.
Its members are set out in the table below.
delivering a conversion ratio of circa 22% ROCE 20% Deliver at least 15% return through the housing cycle and 30% over the period 2016-2018 Committee members Number of meetings attended Customer service 20% Deliver exceptional customer service and strive to Kate Barker Committee Chairman 4 4 improve our customer satisfaction scores Kevin Beeston Chairman 4 4 Performance Share Plan Angela Knight 4 4 Long term incentive plan Rob Rowley 4 4 PSP Total shareholder return 20% Deliver long term stock market returns to our Gwyn Burr was appointed a Committee member on 1 February 2018 FTSE 100 peer group shareholders which are higher than can be earned by investing in other listed housebuilders and Total shareholder return 30% other FTSE 100 companies generally housebuilder group ROCE 20% Deliver at least 15% return through the housing cycle and 30% over the period 2016-2018 PBIT margin 15% The long term strategic target is to earn top quartile levels of margin.
Currently we are focusing on delivering a conversion ratio of circa 22% Operating profit 15% Ensure that levels of cash generation from our conversion into cashflow profit supports the medium-term strategy of delivering dividends to shareholders of 1.3 billion over 2016-2018 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Cash Conversion.
For the remaining 50% of the award, which is based on total shareholder return TSR, our TSR over three years was 92%, which Executive Directors total remuneration resulted in full vesting against the peer group based on FTSE companies The chart below compares the 2017 single figure for total remuneration ranked 51-150 20% of the award and partial vesting against the peer group for each of the Executive Directors with the equivalentfigure for 2016. of other listed housebuilders 30% of the award.
On this basis, the performance across the four performance measures led to a vesting of Executive Single total remuneration gure 000 77.71% of the 2015 PSP award.
Director In judging the overall link between pay and performance, the Committee Pete Redfern 2017 29% 22% 49% 3,809 carefully considered the impact of the provision as referred to above in our Chief Executive 2017 financial statements.
The Committee has taken into account that the 2016 27% 24% 49% 4,072 Executive Directors: Ryan Mangold were not personally involved in the decision to introduce leases with 2017 29% 23% 48% 1,818 Group Finance Director doubling ground rent clauses that gave rise to the need for this provision: 2016 27% 25% 48% 1,937 have not benefited financially in relation to past years incentive plans from this issue: and James Jordan 2017 30% 21% 49% 1,800 Group Legal Director proactively dealt with this issue since it arose, in a positive, transparent and Company and equitable way that is in the long-term interest of shareholders as well 2016 28% 24% 48% 1,928 Secretary as relevant current and future customers.
0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 Notwithstanding the above, in recognising the impact of this issue in 2017 for Fixed Pay Bonus LTIP our shareholders and on certain of our customers, the Committee decided to use its discretion to scale back the level of the 2017 EIS for the Executive Directors.
The Committee firmly believes in ensuring a strong alignment between its The level of scale back is equivalent to the maximum EIS opportunity relating Executive Directors and senior management with the interests of the to the Customer Service element of the 2017 EIS, which equates to 20% of Companys shareholders.
Executive Directors interests continue to be aligned the EIS i. e. equivalent to 30% of each Directors salary.
While the provision with those of the Companys shareholders in three principal ways: did not relate directly to the Customer Service performance conditions of the Through the share ownership requirements in Taylor Wimpey which the EIS set at the start of the year, the leasehold review did however more broadly Committee keeps under regular review.
The Committee believes that the scale back is a Via the requirement to defer each year one third of their annual cash meaningful and proportionate approach to take, recognising not only the impact on shareholders and certain customers, but also taking account of the bonus into shares, which are then required to be held in trust for three years described in more detail on pages 84 and 87. circumstances highlighted in the bullet points set out above.
The impact of the scale back for each Executive Director is set out in the table below: In line with current best practice, through the requirement to retain for two years after vesting the net post-tax benefit deriving from any vesting of the Performance Share Plan award, which will also continue to apply on any EIS as originally Resultant EIS vestings under this Plan going forward.
determined by the payablebefore Director performance criteria Scale back tax NIand deferral Performance in 2017: Executive Incentive Scheme Bonus Pete Redfern 1,078,592 250,835 827,757 EIS and Performance Share Plan PSP outturn Ryan Mangold 542,110 126,072 416,038 The EIS and PSP operate with clearly defined performance measures James Jordan 500,775 116,459 384,316 set out at the start of each financial year.
To assess performance at an The Committee was comfortable that the PSP award should vest ordinarily in underlying level, which is not distorted by one-off items in the financial accordance with the performance criteria, recognising that the Executive statements such as movements in the value of the land bank, the financial Directors are each significant shareholders and have significant interests in measures for the EIS and PSP are calculated before any non-recurring items both the PSP and deferred shares under the EIS.
On this basis, the which could affect the position - either positively or negatively.
This has been Committee feels that they will have shared with our shareholders any impact the Committees policy for many years and ensures a stronger and fairer link on the share price that may have arisen, both in terms of the value of their between reward and underlying performance.
In accordance with this holdings and the future vesting under the above-mentioned schemes.
well-established policy, the profit-related performance measures for the 2017 EIS and 2015 PSP awards were therefore calculated before the cost of the Full details of the performance targets and the relative achievement against gross provision of circa 130 million the provision, which the Company each, are set out on page 87. announced in April 2017 following the outcome of the Companys review into historic leasehold structures.
How we will apply the remuneration policy in 2018 On this basis, for the EIS, our trading performance for 2017 was again The average annual salary increase being proposed throughout the Company excellent, with full achievement against the range of challenging targets set for is 2.5% and this increase will also apply to the three Executive Directors.
As in the Group EBIT measure 40% weighting, Cash Conversion 20% and previous years, salary increases for the year will take effect from 1 April.
Return on Capital Employed ROCE 20%.
The Company also partially met The operation of the incentive arrangements for 2018 will be unchanged the range of Customer Service targets 6% out of 20% and this remains an structurally from the plans which operated in 2017, which have successfully important area of ongoing focus.
Based on the performance of the Company provided a broad assessment of performance against our strategic KPIs.
against its targets, the EIS outturn for 2017 was 86% of the maximum bonus potential for the Executive Directors of 150% of salary before the application of The 2018 EIS will retain the same measures and weightings, namely, EBIT Committee discretion as referred to below.
40%, ROCE 20%, Cash Conversion 20% and Customer Service 20% with 10% based on the National House Building Councils NHBC eight week With regard to the PSP award granted in 2015, which measured performance score and 10% based on the NHBC nine month survey.
The financial over the three years to the end of 2017, the level of our trading performance measures remain closely aligned to our strategy and will also assist in the delivered full vesting in relation to the 50% of the award based on ROCE and driving of other important financial measures.
co. uk 76 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Committee activities during 2017 February July October December Reviewed feedback from major Initial consideration of the potential Further consideration of the Determined the effect of the leasehold shareholders on the remuneration effect on Executive Director effect of the leasehold review review and provision on the variable consultation conducted in December remuneration of the outcome of the and provision on the variable pay pay elements of the Executive 2016 around the Companys leasehold review announced during elements of the Executive Directors Directors remuneration packages remuneration proposals for 2017 and 2017 and the associated provision of remuneration packages Agreed communication to major the Remuneration Policy which was circa 130 million shareholders around the Companys approved by shareholders at the Undertook a competitive tender remuneration proposals for 2018 Companys 2017 AGM process including meetings for the Considered reports from Korn Ferry on Considered and approved the salary Committees Remuneration Adviser executive benchmarking review proposals for 2017 for the Reviewed the outcome of the process Considered a general governance Executive Directors and the wider and appointed Korn Ferry with effect update from Korn Ferry on executive team in light of Company from 20 July 2017 remuneration considerations proposals for the wider workforce Preliminary discussion on salary Considered and approved the proposals for 2018: projected outcome of the EIS for 2016 and of the outcomes on 2017 EIS: and PSP vesting in 2017 PSP awards Considered and approved the wording Considered the draft Remuneration of the proposed new PSP Plan Rules Report for inclusion in the Companys as approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual Report Companys 2017 AGM Discussion around strategy on the Reviewed the draft Remuneration Companys defined contribution Report for the Companys 2017 pension scheme Annual Report Awards made in 2018 under the PSP will also be unchanged from 2017, We believe that the remuneration payable to the Executive Directors for 2017 based on PBIT Margin 15%, Operating Profit Cash Conversion 15%, ROCE is appropriate, linked to performance delivered and, as evidenced by our use 20%, and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against a Housebuilders of discretion to reduce the EIS payments this year, has taken account of the group 30% and against the FTSE 100 20%.
Following our consultation with broader circumstances within which incentive payments should be made.
shareholders, we will however be amending how we calculate the Companys I very much hope that you will again be able to support the level of TSR against the housebuilders group by reverting to a more conventional remuneration paid with respect to 2017 and the way we will implement our median to upper quartile range.
This will be no less challenging to achieve but policy for 2018. will make it more straightforward to calculate and, importantly, easier to communicate it internally to participants.
The change will also align the method of calculation to the FTSE 100 TSR group measurement, which has been in place for a number of years.
Remuneration adviser During 2017 the Committee undertook a review of its independent adviser, and after a competitive tender process, including the incumbent firm, Aon Kate Barker Hewitt New Bridge Street, who had been in position since February 2009, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee decided to appoint Korn Ferry as the Committees adviser with effect from 20 July 2017.
Both advisers are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and signatories to its Code of Conduct.
Membership of the Committee I should like to take this opportunity to thank Rob Rowley, who will stand down from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM, for his contribution to the Committees deliberations since 2010.
I should also like to welcome Gwyn Burr who joined the Committee on 1 February 2018 and brings wide experience of remuneration committee related matters.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Introduction Remuneration Policy Report This Report has been prepared to comply with the provisions of the Unaudited information Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation, including the Large and The Companys Remuneration Policy was subject to a binding shareholder Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations voteat the 2017 AGM of the Company andwas approved by 98% of 2008 as amended Regulations, and has also been prepared in line with the shareholders who voted.
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the UK Listing Authority ListingRules.
The Policy is designed to ensure that the remuneration framework will support and drive the Taylor Wimpey strategy forward by both challenging and This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on motivating the Executive Directors and the senior management team to deliver behalfof the Board.
it and drive value for our shareholders.
The Policy is set out on pages 78 to 80 The 2017 Remuneration Report includes disclosures which reflect in full the and is also available to view on the Companys website at www.
Regulations on remuneration reporting, divided into two sections: co. uk corporate investor-relations corporate-governance Remuneration Policy Report: this sets out the Remuneration Policy adopted by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, describing the framework Policy overview within which the Company remunerates its Directors.
The Policy applies A key part of the Committees role is to ensure that the remuneration of for a period of three years from the date of the 2017 AGM or until a Executive Directors and senior management is aligned to the Companys revised Policy is approved by shareholders if sooner.
The preceding Policy strategic objectives.
It is, of course, key that the Company is able to attract applied during the year from 1 January 2017 until the date of the 2017 and retain leaders who are focused and also appropriately incentivised to AGM, but was not materially different from the current Policy.
deliver the Companys strategic objectives within a framework which is aligned Annual Report on Remuneration: this sets out how the Companys with the long term interests of the Companys shareholders.
This alignment is Remuneration Policy was applied during 2017 from the date of the 2017 achieved through a combination of deferral into shares of a percentage of the AGM and under the preceding Policy until that date and how it is EIS: a two-year retention period for vested PSP awards: and share ownership proposed that it be applied during 2018.
The Annual Report on guidelines which require executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey Remuneration will be subject to an advisory resolution at the AGM on shares, either directly or by retaining vested PSP share awards.
Details of the resolution and its status as an advisory vote guidelines, which the Committee regularly reviews and also seeks advice on, are set out in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on page 157. require Executive Directors to put in place a plan to accumulate a holding in the Company equivalent to their basic salary within five years of appointment, The Regulations require that the Companys auditors report to shareholders followed by a holding equal to twice their basic salary within a specified period on certain parts of this Report and state whether in their opinion those parts to be agreed with the Chairman.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements.
The The Committees Remuneration Policy ensures that a significant percentage Remuneration Policy Report, which describes the Committees current of the overall remuneration package of Executive Directors and senior Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and which has applied since its management is subject to performance.
With all packages for Executive approval by shareholders on 27 April 2017, contains unaudited information.
Directors substantially geared towards meeting challenging targets set Some elements of the Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how under the EIS and PSP, the Committee believes that the pay and benets of the Committee has implemented its existing policy in 2017, contain its Executive Directors and senior management adequately takes account of audited information.
In line with best practice the Remuneration Committee ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, the Committee under its terms of reference may, where it considers appropriate, take ESG matters into account when considering the overall remuneration structure.
co. uk 78 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure The maximum annual salary increase will not Company and individual executives of a suitable that they remain competitive with external market normally exceed the average increase which performance are factors calibre for the role and duties practices and are competitive when measured applies across the wider workforce.
against FTSE peers other non-financial companies larger increases may be awarded in certain reviewing salaries.
of a similar size in terms of market capitalisation and circumstances including but not limited to: other large UK housebuilders.
There is no automatic Increase in scope or responsibilities of entitlement to an increase each year.
Takes into account the following: To apply salary progression for a newly The performance, role and responsibility of each recently appointed Director.
Where the Directors salary has fallen The economic climate, general market conditions significantly below the market positioning.
and the performance of the Company.
The level of pay awards across the rest of the business.
Salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Chairman The Chairmans and Fees consist of a single consolidated fee for the Aggregate annual limit of 1 million imposed by N A and Non NonExecutive Directors fees Chairman plus the payment of a cash amount to the Articles of Association.
1 Executive should be in line with cover his office expenses, an annual fee for the Director fees recognised best practice and other Non Executives and additional fees for the be sufficient to attract and Chairman of the Audit Committee and the retain high calibre Remuneration Committee.
An additional fee is also nonexecutives.
paid to the Senior Independent Director in recognition of the responsibilities of that role.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non executive, taking into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of the Nomination Committee and or the Audit Committee and or Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year.
Takes into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, benefits-in-kind or pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to participate in the Companys private medical insurance scheme.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon which are determined to be a taxable benefit, can be reimbursed.
Other Provides a competitive The main benefits offered include: Life assurance of up to four times basic salary N A benefits, package of benets to assist and a pension of up to two-thirds of the Company-provided car or a cash allowance including with recruitment and retention members entitlement for a spouse on death in inlieu.
service, or in retirement, are provided, together in-kind Provision of a fuel card.
with a childrens allowance of up to 100% of the Life assurance.
dependants pension for three or more eligible children.
The cost of these benefits is not Private medical insurance.
A 5% discount on the price of a new home The value of a company-provided car or a cash acquired from the Group in the UK or Spain.
allowance in lieu is of a level appropriate to the Benets-in-kind are not pensionable.
individuals role and is subject to review from time to time.
The fuel card covers the cost of all fuel, for both business and personal use.
For home purchases, the price discount is calculated at the plot release price less the average discount to third party buyers for that house type on that development, less a further 5% employee discount.
No more than one home per annum can be acquired at a discount under the scheme.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual Rewards the achievement of EIS awards are determined by the Committee after The maximum EIS opportunity for The EIS measures are based on Bonus stretching objectives that the year end, based on annual performance against Executive Directors is set at 150% of a scorecard of designated key Scheme support the Companys targets set at the beginning of each year.
Target is set at 75% of annual financial, operational and EIS annual and strategic goals.
environmental measures and the One-third of any EIS payable is deferred into shares measures for 2017 are described Compulsory deferral in shares for three years and held in trust.
No further in the Annual Report on is designed to further align the performance conditions apply.
interests of Directors with Dividends or other distributions will accrue in favour shareholders.
The Committee may vary the of participants during the three year deferral period metrics and weightings from year and will be received with any shares that vest after to year according to strategy and the applicable deferral period.
the market, however financial A malus and clawback mechanism applies to all measures will normally have the participants in the event of a material misstatement most significant weighting.
of the Groups accounts and also for other dened reasons.
The period of the clawback is three years from the date of payment.
No element of the EIS is pensionable.
Long Term Annual grants of share-based Executive Directors and other designated senior The maximum award currently in The targets and weightings for Incentive Plan long term incentives assist executives can receive annual awards of PSP performance shares is normally over 2018 are described in the Annual PSP with retention and the shares.
shares with a face value of 200% Report on Remuneration.
incentivisation and motivation of base salary.
In exceptional Awards of PSP shares provide alignment with The Committee may vary the of senior executives to circumstances this can be increased shareholders as they deliver subject to meeting measures that are included in the achieve returns for up to 300%.
performance conditions the full value of the shares, plan and the weightings between shareholders through the which can increase and decrease over the three the measures from year to year.
inclusion of relative Total year performance period.
Any changes to the metrics Shareholder Return TSR as would be subject to prior Dividends or other distributions will accrue for a measure, driving further UK consultation with the Companys Directors during the performance and holding operating margin progression major shareholders.
periods and will be received with any shares that and improving return on net vest in favour of participants after the applicable Awards vest 20% for threshold operating assets through the performance period.
The use of shares and maximum performance with Performance measures are currently measured over a post-vesting shareholding straight line vesting in between.
period helps align the interests of senior executives A malus and clawback mechanism applies to all with those of the Companys participants in the event of a material misstatement shareholders.
Pension The Company aims to Pension benets for Executive Directors are provided Pete Redfern: cash allowances of N A provide competitive through one or more of the following arrangements: 20% of salary up to a scheme specific retirement benets that cap and 25% of salary above the cap.
4 Personal Choice Plan : represent an appropriate level 5 James Jordan: cash allowances of Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme : of cost and risk for the 20% of salary up to a scheme specific 3 Groups shareholders.
cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
Ryan Mangold: 20% of salary, split between a cash allowance and Company pension contribution.
Company contributions to any pension scheme in respect of the recruitment of a new Executive Director will not exceed 20% of base salary per annum, which is the Company contribution rate for senior management.
A Salary Exchange Arrangement is available, allowing the sacrifice of a portion of salary, to be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution.
co. uk 80 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets All-employee All employees including The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard terms Sharesave: Employees can elect for a N A share Executive Directors are under which all UK employees with at least three savings contract of either three or five schemes encouraged to become months service can participate.
years, with a maximum monthly saving shareholders through the set by legislation or by HMRC.
Options operation of all-employee can be exercised during the six months share plans such as the following the end of the contract.
HMRC tax-advantaged SIP: Employees can elect to contribute Sharesave plan and a Share an amount per month orper tax year by Incentive Plan SIP.
The maximum saving or contribution level is set by legislation or Government from time to time and the Committee reserves the right to increase contribution levels toreflect any approved Government legislative changes.
Shareholding Encourages greater levels Executive Directors and senior executives are Executive Directors: 200% of salary N A guidelines of shareholding and aligns expected to achieve and maintain a holding of the 100% within five years of appointment employees interests with Companys shares at least equal to a significant and balance by agreement with the 2 those of shareholders.
proportion of their respective salary.
The Company no longer makes a contribution to the Chairmans office-related expenses.
In addition to the two-year holding period in respect of the PSP, until the 200% target is achieved, an Executive Director will be required to retain in shares at least 50% of the net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the PSP or other share based long term incentive plan.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Schemes The Group has two principal UK pension schemes: Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan and Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The latter was created on 7 March 2013 and all members of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme and the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension & Life Assurance Fund, the two legacy defined benefit schemes, were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013.
Two Directors are members of the TWPS, which is closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan PCP The PCP was introduced on 1 April 2002.
It is a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which all new eligible UK employees are invited to join.
All active members of the two legacy defined benefit arrangements were invited to join the PCP when those arrangements closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Executive section of the TWPS.
They have a Normal Retirement Age under the TWPS of 62.
Illustration of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 The charts below illustrate the level and mix of remuneration based on the Remuneration Policy depending on the achievement of below target, target and maximum for the Executive Directors under the policy.
Salary is 857,020, 430,746 and 397,902 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively with effect from 1 April 2018.
Benefits are 53,000, 21,000 and 48,000 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
Pension is 204,991, 85,624 and 98,000 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
For the EIS the target and maximum award is 75% and 150% of base salary, respectively.
For the PSP the target assumed for these purposes to be at threshold performance and maximum are 40% and 200% of base salary, respectively.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 000s 81 Committee discretion How employees voice is taken into account The Committee fully recognises that the exercise of discretion must be The Committee supports and welcomes the employee voice proposals undertaken in a very careful and considered way and that it is an area that will currently under consideration by the Government, and in anticipation of this, quite rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders and other stakeholders.
It the Company has already put in place the Taylor Wimpey National Employee is however also important for the Committee to retain some discretion to Forum the NEF which will work with members of the Group Management make payments outside of its Remuneration Policy in exceptional Team and build upon the existing regional Employee Consultative Committee circumstances.
The Committee confirms that any exercise of discretion in structure.
Since it was established in late 2017 it has met on two occasions such circumstances would be within the available discretions set out in this and received updates and provided feedback and input into specific matters Report and that the maximum levels available under any relevant plans would such as certain remuneration related matters, customer service and other not be exceeded.
It is intended that the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee Chairman will attend the NEF from time to time and As mentioned earlier in this Report, the Committee decided that it was also seek feedback on specific topics via the Group Legal Director and appropriate to exercise its discretion to scale back the EIS entitlement of Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director or other Group the three Executive Directors in respect of the 2017 outcome, by 20% of the Management Team members as appropriate.
EIS which equates to 30% of salary to take into account the impact of the circa 130 million provision which was made following the conclusion of the How performance measures were chosen review into historic leasehold practices.
The performance metrics that are used for each of the short and long term With regard to both the EIS and the PSP, the Committee, consistent with incentive plans have been selected to reflect the Groups key strategic goals market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the and are designed to align the Directors interests with those of the operation and administration of these plans but in all cases within the rules.
These include but are not limited to the following matters with the maximum The EIS performance metrics include a mix of financial and non-financial level of award restricted as set out in the Policy table on pages 78 to 80 : metrics reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial metrics Who participates in the plans.
will generally determine at least 50% of the EIS and include earnings before The timing of grant of award and or payment.
interest and tax as this reflects the Companys strategic objective to increase profit sustainably.
The other financial metrics, selected on an annual basis, will The size of an award and or a payment, subject to the limits of the rules.
be measurable and will ensure that executives are motivated to deliver across Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a a scorecard of key objectives.
The improvement of customer service remains change of control or reconstruction.
an area of ongoing focus and the Remuneration Committee has therefore Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for retained it as a challenging measure.
incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the The performance conditions applicable to the PSP were selected by the appropriate treatment chosen.
Committee as they are consistent with the overall longer term success of the Discretion to dis-apply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control Company.
TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys or good leaver circumstances.
Firstly, against its competitors via an industry peer Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, group and secondly, relative TSR measured against an appropriate sector of corporate restructuring, acquisition, divestment, change of control, special the FTSE.
The latter has progressed over recent years, in line with the dividend or a change in prevailing market conditions.
improvement in the Companys share price and capitalisation, from the FTSE The ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional 250 for 2014 awards: through to the 50 companies ranked immediately above and below the Company for 2015 awards: to the FTSE 100 for 2016 events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with Discretion to allow participants to sell, transfer, assign or dispose of some the returns received by shareholders.
The ROCE and Cash Conversion or all of their shares in exceptional circumstances before the end of the targets ensure that returns to shareholders and the generation of cash to fund holding period, subject to such additional terms and conditions as the them are the result of long term sustainable financial performance.
Margin is a key indicator for investors and for the Companys strategy of driving margin rather than volume.
How shareholder views are taken into account The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and the The Remuneration Committee appreciates and considers very seriously all appropriateness of the performance targets each year.
Targets are set based shareholder feedback received in relation to remuneration each year and on a sliding scale that takes account of internal planning and external market guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
Shareholder expectations for the Company.
Maximum rewards require substantial views are key inputs when shaping the Remuneration Policy and the out-performance of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year, Committee welcomes any comment or feedback on any aspects of with a significantly lower level of rewards for delivering thresheld remuneration and will always consider and respond.
The Committee regularly engages with its largest shareholders and shareholder bodies, regarding the ongoing Remuneration Policy and implementation, and will take into account any feedback when determining any changes that might apply.
The last such consultation took place in December 2017 and included the proposed performance targets and weightings of both the EIS and PSP, and also the salary proposals for 2018 of 2.5% to apply to all employees.
The Committee also used the opportunity to consult with shareholders on the use of its discretion to reduce the level of the Executive Directors EIS as referred to above.
The Committee follows the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration as set out in the Main Principles, Supporting Principles and Code Provisions of the Code.
The Committee reviews and takes into account any governance related developments and guidance that arise, on an ongoing basis.
co. uk 82 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Committee may require new directors to acquire Company shares up to a External Non Executive Director positions pre-agreed level.
Shareholders will be informed of any buy-out payments at Subject to Board approval and provided that such appointments fall within the the time of appointment.
general requirements of the Code and do not give rise to any conflict issues which cannot be managed by the Board and the Executive Director, In the case of an internal hire including a promotion, as previously reported, Executive Directors are permitted to take on non executive positions with the Company will honour any commitments entered into prior to their other companies.
Executive Directors are permitted to retain their fees in appointment to the Board even where it is not consistent with the Policy respect of such positions.
Any such appointments would be the subject of a prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
public announcement to the London Stock Exchange.
Directors contracts Pete Redfern is an independent non executive director on the Board of It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts of Travis Perkins plc where he also serves on its Remuneration Committee and employment providing for a maximum of one years notice either way.
This chairs its Stay Safe Committee.
His current fees total 68,000 per annum meets the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Service 2016: 57,000. contracts for all Executive Directors and letters of appointment for all Non Executive Directors are available for inspection as described in the Notice of Remuneration Policy for the wider workforce Annual General Meeting on page 153.
When setting the policy for Executive Directors, the Committee is made fully aware of pay structures across the workforce.
In addition, the Committee will Each of the Executive Directors service contracts provides for: conduct a formal review of relevant elements of remuneration across the The payment of a base salary details of which are set out on page 84.
Group and for all levels of employee every three years.
The most recent such An expensed company car or a cash allowance in lieu: a fuel allowance: review took place in 2017 and its findings, which included data in preparation life assurance: and private medical insurance details of which are set out for the publication of gender pay gap information in April 2018, were that there on page 78. were no inherent issues or evidence of inequalities on base pay, bonus and car benefits, or on pension arrangements which have been aligned.
Employers contribution to a pension scheme details of which are set out on page 79.
Virtually all of the Companys employees participate in incentive arrangements.
A notice period by either side of 12 months.
Many employees can elect to take their performance-related payment in shares rather than cash, further enhancing the link and alignment between A provision requiring a Director to mitigate losses on termination.
shareholder value and employee reward throughout the Company, which The service contract for each of Pete Redfern and James Jordan additionally both the Company and the Committee consider important.
For further details provides for a pension allowance.
see employee involvement on page 96.
Each service contract contains the following performance-related provisions: The Company also offers both Sharesave and Share Incentive schemes to all Participation in the EIS.
eligible UK employees with more than three months service.
Participation in one or more long term incentive plan.
Remuneration Policy on recruitment or promotion The Company has the right to terminate contracts by making a payment in Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, lieu of notice.
Any such payment will typically reflect the individuals salary, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Where bonus entitlement, benefits in kind and pension entitlements.
The Company appropriate, the Company may offer a below market salary initially with a view will be mindful, on termination of an Executive Directors employment, of the to making above market and workforce increases over a number of years to need to mitigate costs and phase payments, which cease when the individual reach the desired salary positioning, subject to individual and Company obtains an alternative role.
There are no change of control provisions that performance.
Benefits and pension will be provided in line with those offered apply in relation to the service contract of any Executive Director.
to other Executive Directors, with relocation expenses provided for if Other than in certain good leaver circumstances which could include by necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is way of example redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no payment would adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with the Company.
usually be due under the EIS unless the individual remains employed and is Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also be paid by the not under notice at the payment date.
Any payment to a good leaver under Company, if considered appropriate and reasonable to do so.
the EIS would be based on an assessment of their and the Companys The variable pay elements that may be offered will be subject to the maximum performance over the applicable period and pro-rated for the proportion of levels described in the policy table on pages 78 to 80.
The Company may also the EIS year worked.
consider applying different performance measures if it feels these appropriately Where an Executive Director is considered by the Remuneration Committee meet the strategic objectives and aims of the Company whilst incentivising the to be a good leaver, deferred EIS awards shares would vest.
The above policy, which has not been used to date since its introduction, With regard to long term incentive plan awards, the rules of the PSP provide would apply to both an internal promotion to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board or that, other than in certain good leaver circumstances, awards lapse on an external hire.
Where an individual is a good leaver, the Committees In the case of an external hire, the Company may choose to buy-out any normal policy is for the award to vest on cessation of employment following the incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the application of performance targets no later than the normal vesting date of the previous employer.
This will only occur where the Company feels that it is a award and a pro-rata reduction to take account of the proportion of the necessary requirement to aid the recruitment.
The replacement value would applicable performance period outstanding post the cessation.
The Committee be provided for, taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and has discretion to deem an individual to be a good leaver.
The Committee also expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of has discretion for both early vesting and reducing the impact of pro-rating.
In the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be doing so, it will take account of the reason for the departure and the granted using Taylor Wimpeys existing share plans wherever and to the performance of the individual through to the time of departure.
extent possible, although in exceptional circumstances awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
To ensure alignment from the outset with shareholders, malus and clawback provisions may also apply where appropriate and the Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 In situations where an Executive Director is dismissed, the Committee During 2017 the Committee comprised three Independent Non Executive reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are Directors and also the Chairman of the Board.
Kate Barker is the Committee made in good faith: Chairman and the other members of the Committee were Kevin Beeston, Angela Knight and Rob Rowley.
Membership of the Committee is, and was in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for throughout 2017, in line with the Code.
Rob Rowley will stand down from breach of such an obligation : the Board immediately following the AGM on 26 April 2018.
Gwyn Burr by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection became a member of the Committee following her appointment to the with the termination of a Directors office or employment: or Board on 1 February 2018. to contribute towards the individuals legal fees and fees for Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings held during 2017 outplacement services.
The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are No Director or other executive is involved in any decisions about his or her regulated by letters of appointment over a term of three years, which are own specic remuneration.
Both the Company and the aforementioned Directors have a notice period of six months and the Directors are not entitled to compensation Advice to the Committee on termination other than for the normal notice period if not worked out.
The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and best practice All Executive Directors are proposed for re-election at the 2018 AGM and in the eld of remuneration and it seeks advice from external advisers each will have at that date an unexpired service contract term of one year.
Service contracts and letters of appointment may be inspected at the The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers and Companys Registered Office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
during the year it decided that the role of remuneration adviser, in which capacity Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street, part of Aon PLC, had acted since Legacy arrangements February 2009, should be the subject of a comprehensive review and Any commitment made which is consistent with the approved Remuneration competitive tender process.
The outcome of the review, which was held in June 2017, was the appointment, from 20 July 2017, of Korn Ferry Hay Policy in force at the time that commitment was made will be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such Group Korn Ferry, who will act as remuneration adviser to the Committee going forward.
Both New Bridge Street and Korn Ferry are members of the Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration Consultants Group and signatories to its Code of Conduct.
Neither firm This Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder provides any other services to the Company.
Although the wider Aon PLC vote at the 2018 AGM.
The information in the Implementation of the group of companies provide insurance broking and, until 27 March 2017, Remuneration Policy during 2017 section on pages 85 to 92 has provided pension administration support services to the Company, the been audited.
Committee is entirely satisfied that the provision of such services did not create any conicts of interest.
The Committee reviews the performance and Remuneration Committee independence of its advisers onanannual basis and is satisfied that the advice provided is objective and independent.
The role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is to recommend to the Board a strategy and framework for remuneration for Executive The Committee also receives legal advice from Slaughter and May, the Directors and Senior Management in order to attract and retain leaders who Companys solicitors, as and when necessary.
This generally relates to are focused and incentivised to deliver the Companys strategic business technical advice on share schemes and also with regard to any senior priorities within a remuneration framework which is aligned with the interests appointments and termination arrangements.
The Committee is satisfied that of our shareholders and thus designed to promote the long term success of the advice provided by Slaughter and May is objective and independent.
The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2017 were: New Bridge Street The Remuneration Committee has clearly dened terms of reference which 45,000 for the period to 19 July 2017 2016: 99,470 for a full year and to are available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk Korn Ferry 38,000 for the period from 20 July 2017 2016: Nil.
No significant corporate investor-relations corporate-governance.
TheCommittees main amount of advice was sought from Slaughter and May during the year.
responsibilities are to: Pete Redfern the Chief Executive, James Jordan the Group Legal Director Establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for developing and Company Secretary, and the Group Human Resources Director each policy on executive remuneration and for determining the remuneration attend Committee meetings by invitation only but are not present for any packages of individual Directors, and to monitor and report on them.
discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration.
Determine the remuneration, including pension arrangements, of the Executive Directors.
Monitor and make recommendations in respect of remuneration for the tier of Senior Management one level below that of the Board.
Approve annual and long term incentive arrangements together with their targets and levels of awards.
Determine the level of fees for the Chairman of the Board.
Select and appoint the external advisers to the Committee.
co. uk 84 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Chairman and Non Executive Directors The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice period by Notice period by Name Date of appointment as a Director Term of appointment Company months Director months Kevin Beeston 1 July 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Kate Barker 21 April 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Gwyn Burr 1 February 2018 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Mike Hussey 1 July 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Angela Knight 1 November 2016 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Rob Rowley 1 January 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Humphrey Singer 9 December 2015 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2018 Weighting % of total Below threshold Threshold Maximum award 0% vesting 20% vesting 100% vesting Base Salary TSR v Peer Group 30% Less than Median Upper The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in February 2018 and has decided to award increases of 2.5% for each Executive Director, with median Quartile effect from 1 April 2018, in line with the average increase made to TSR v FTSE100 20% Less than Median Upper all employees.
median Quartile The salaries of the Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2018 will ROCE in 2020 20% Less than 26% 26% 30% beas follows: PBIT Margin for 2020 15% Less than 20% 20% 22% Salary at Salary at Conversion of operating 15% Less than 65% 65% 75% Name 1 April 2017 1 April 2018 Increase profit into operating cash Pete Redfern 836,118 857,020 2.5% flow averaged over Ryan Mangold 420,240 430,746 2.5% 2018-2020 James Jordan 388,198 397,902 2.5% Awards vest on a straight line basis between these points.
The Direct Peer Group Index of housebuilders is an unweighted index comprised of Barratt Annual Bonus Scheme Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Countryside The Executive Incentive Scheme EIS performance metrics and their Properties, Crest Nicholson, Galliford Try, Persimmon and Redrow.
weightings for 2018 are shown in the table below.
The precise details of the targets themselves are deemed to be commercially sensitive as they relate to The targets for 2018 are unchanged from those established for the 2017 the current financial year.
However, detailed retrospective disclosure of awards.
This was considered in detail by the Committee and approved on the the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years basis that these targets were challenging when introduced and each remains Remuneration Report in the usual way.
stretching and appropriate in the present market outlook for the medium term.
Measure Weighting An underlying requirement for any vesting under the current shareEBIT 40% based incentive plans is that at the time of approving the vesting, the Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance of the Cash Conversion 20% Group.
This will include inter alia the Companys ROCE and ROCE 20% Margin performance.
Customer service 20% The Committee also retains the right as part of its overall discretion to reduce The above metrics and weightings are unchanged from the previous year the vesting of the award if it considers that volumes i. e. the number of homes and reflect the Groups continuing focus on the key performance areas of sold have not been satisfactory during the relevant performance period.
earnings: cash generation: returns: and further improving customer services.
Dividend equivalents and other distributions will accrue on vested awards and One third of any bonus will be deferred in shares for three years without any continue to accrue to the extent awards remain unexercised post vesting.
PSP awards are subject to a two year post vesting holding period for 2018 and future vestings.
Long Term Incentive Plan Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan PSP In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, long term incentives comprise a PSP award with a maximum award of 200% of base salary face value of shares at date of award.
The annual awards granted to Executive Directors in 2018 will be subject to the following performance conditions: Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Non Executive Directors and Chairmans fees A summary of the current fees which have remained unchanged since 1 July 2016 and will be reviewed during 2018 is set out below: Annual Fees as at 1 April 2018 Chairman 295,000 Basic Non Executive Director fee 60,000 Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman fee 15,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 15,000 Payments to former Directors There were no payments to former Directors or payments for loss of office to Directors during 2017.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2017 Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows by way of total shareholder return, the value by 31 December 2017 of 100 invested in Taylor Wimpey plc on 1 January 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 and in the average of the housebuilder index introduced for the 2012 Performance Share Plan awards onwards and as varied subsequently for the 2014 and 2016 awards.
These benchmarks have been chosen as Taylor Wimpey is a consitutent of both.
co. uk Value rebased 86 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Chief Executive historic remuneration unaudited The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same nine year period as is reflected in the TSR graph on page 85.
The total remuneration figure includes the EIS and PSP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The EIS and PSP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Kevin Beestons benefit relates to the provision of private medical insurance.
b These are the scaled back amounts for 2017 following the exercise of the Remuneration Committees discretion in relation to the provision as referred to on page 75. c This column shows the vesting during 2017 and 2016 of LTIPs as set out below and in the table at the top of page 87 and includes the value of dividends accrued during the performance period and payable on vesting.
The 2016 totals have been restated to reflect the share price at vesting of 180 pence as stated in the PSP award 2014 table below.
d These figures represent the cash allowances payable as described in the Remuneration Policy Pension section.
e These figures represent the value of the 20% discount on the Sharesave option price, matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan and the payment of Special Dividend accrued on Sharesave Options exercised by Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan during 2016 and 2017 and grossed-up for Income Tax and National Insurance.
PSP awards included in 2016 total remuneration figure Share price % Vesting Shares Date of end of at vesting PSP award Performance target Weighting max 100% vesting performance period Date of vesting pence a a 2014 PSP TSR FTSE 20% 100% 470,681 31 12 2016 28 02 2017 180 a TSR Peer Group 30% 36.5% 257,697 31 12 2016 28 02 2017 180 a ROCE 25% 100% 588,354 31 12 2016 28 02 2017 180 a Margin 25% 100% 588,354 31 12 2016 28 02 2017 180 a The share price shown is the closing middle market share price on the date of vesting 28 February 2017.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 PSP awards included in 2017 total remuneration figure Share price % Vesting Date of end of at vesting PSP award Performance target Weighting max 100% Shares vesting performance period Date of vesting pence a b a 2015 PSP TSR FTSE 20% 100.0% 398,781 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 199.97 a TSR Peer Group 30% 25.7% 153,729 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 199.97 a ROCE 25% 100% 498,475 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 199.97 a Cash Conversion 25% 100% 498,475 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 199.97 a The share price shown is the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2017 and will be restated in next years Annual Report and Accounts to reflect the actual share price on vesting on 28 February 2018. b On exercise, an equivalent proportion of cash accrued in lieu of dividends paid during the performance period, will also be paid net of Income Tax and NI.
EIS in respect of 2017 For 2017, the Committee measured performance against each individual performance target, which is directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy, as described in more detail on page 74, as follows: % of salary % of salary paid deferred in Measure Strategic objective Weighting Summary of targets Result % of maximum in cash shares EBIT To increase aggregate profit 40% Entry 10% vesting 775m 841m 40 26.67 13.33 Target 50% vesting 796m Stretch 100% vesting 830m Cash Conversion Driving increased cash generation 20% Entry 10% vesting 72% 88.8% 20 13.33 6.67 and retention as a proportion of Target 50% vesting 77% PBIT Stretch 100% vesting 82% ROCE Driving capital efficiency 20% Entry 10% vesting 29% 32.4% 20 13.33 6.67 Target 50% vesting 30% Stretch 100% vesting 31% Customer Service Improving and delivering 20% Entry 10% vesting 72% 79% 6 4 2 customer service based on key Target 50% vesting 86% National House-Building Council Stretch 100% vesting 89% performance standards a a a Total 100% 86 57.33 28.67 The amounts paid to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan in respect of 2017 are set out in the remuneration table on page 86. a As stated on pages 75 and 81 the Committee used its discretion to scale back the bonus payments to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan for 2017 performance by an amount equivalent in each case to 30% of annual salary in recognition of the leasehold provision created during the year.
This reduced the total bonus payable from 86% to 66% of the maximum.
co. uk 88 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Vesting of PSP awards in 2017 The performance period for all elements of the 2015 PSP award ended on 31 December 2017 and the final measurement was undertaken based on this date, with the performance outcome being independently calculated by Korn Ferry and as part of the overall audit process.
The outcomes were as follows: Performance % overall Award Measure Weighting Vesting scale achieved award vesting 9 March 2015 TSR FTSE 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at upper Above upper 20% th quartile.
Pro-rata vesting in between quartile 86 percentile TSR Peer 30% No vesting below Index TSR, 20% vests at Index TSR, 100% vests at Index 0.6% p. a.
7.7% Group Index TSR 8% p. a. multiplicative.
Pro-rata vesting in between TW TSR of 92.4% vs Index TSR of 88.9% ROCE 25% No vesting below 16% ROCE, 20% vests at 16% ROCE, 100% vests 32.5% 25% at 24% ROCE.
Pro-rata vesting in between Cash 25% No vesting below 65% Cash Conversion, 20% vests at 65% 79.0% 25% Conversion conversion, 100% vests at 70% conversion.
Pro-rata vesting in between Total 100% 77.7% In deciding whether, and to what extent, any vesting of awards should take place under any LTIP, the Committee also considers the overall financial performance of the Company during the period.
The Committee has determined that the overall financial performance of the Company has been strong in respect of the performance periods of the above PSP award and therefore determined that the 2015 PSP awards should vest at 77.71% based on the achievement of three performance measures in full and one measure TSR Peer Group in part, as set out in the table above.
Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration unaudited 2017 2016 Change % Profit before tax, interest and exceptional items 841.2m 764.3m 10.1 Dividends paid per ordinary share 13.94p 12.02p 16.0 interim 2017 interim 2016 2.3p 0.53p final 2017 final 2016 2.44p 2.29p special 2017 special 2016 9.2p 9.2p Employee pay in aggregate 244.1m 228.6m 6.8% Employee pay average per employee 48,018 47,853 0.3% Change in Chief Executive pay compared to Taylor Wimpey employees unaudited The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2016 and 2017 for the Chief Executive compared to the average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees during the year.
Annual Bonus Salary Benefits Scheme a Pete Redfern 2.0% 6.0% -16.0% Average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees 2.0% 1.0% 7.5% a As stated on pages 75 and 81 the Committee used its discretion to scale back the EIS bonus payments to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordon for 2017 performance by an amount equivalent in each case to 20% of the EIS i. e. equivalent to 30% of each Directors annual salary in recognition of the leasehold provision created during the year.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
