Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 81 81 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2017 Considered and approved the: Remuneration policy New Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual Report of the Committee on remuneration for 2016 Remuneration of executive directors and senior staff Remuneration terms for the outgoing Group CEO Remuneration for the incoming Group CEO New performance appraisal process for Group employees ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities OUR KEY FOCUS IS TO MAKE SURE THAT are to: EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION IS ALIGNED recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and framework for WITH PERFORMANCE AND THE SUCCESSFUL the executive directors and members of DELIVERY OF THE GROUP STRATEGY the Executive Committee: determine, within that framework, the TONY THORNE individual remuneration packages for the CHAIRMAN executive directors and members of the Executive Committee: approve the design of annual and COMMITTEE MEMBERS NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD long-term incentive arrangements for Tim Cobbold IN2017 executive directors and members of the Philip Cox Executive Committee, including agreeing The Group Company David Lindsell Secretary is Secretary to the annual targets and payments under David Nussbaum 6 the Committee.
such arrangements: Nicola Hodson determine and agree the general terms appointed on 12 January 2018 and conditions of service and the specic This Directors Remuneration Report terms for any individual within the has been prepared in accordance ATTENDING BY INVITATION Committees remit, either on recruitment with Schedule 8 to the Large and Group CEO or on termination: Medium-sized Companies and Head of Corporate HR determine the policy for, and scope of, Groups Accounts and Reports External remuneration advisers executive pension arrangements: and Regulations 2008, as amended oversee any major changes in employee theRegulations and the provisions benefit structures throughout the Group of the Code.
and review remuneration trends across the Group.
TERMS OF REFERENCE ATTENDANCE IN 2017 The Committees terms of reference are Date Maximum No.
of % of reviewed regularly by the Committee and Committee appointed possible meetings meetings then by the Board.
The terms of reference member a member meetings attended attended are available on the Groups website at Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 6 4 67% www.
Philip Cox 22 April 2015 6 6 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 6 6 100% David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 1 1 100% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 6 6 100% 8 82 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The proposed changes substantially toughen the operation of bonus ANNUAL STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS arrangements.
The Committee recognises that they will most likely lead to lower bonuses but believes it right that the bonus outcome Dear shareholders should be on demonstrable performance and that there is a This report reviews the key matters considered by the Remuneration consistent approach across all employees.
I would add that the Committee in the past year and the future matters we expect to changes have the full support of the executive directors.
Before reviewing the past year I want to highlight two proposed changes in the current remuneration policy thatrequire Full details on the changes and the policy are set out later in the report.
REVIEW OF 2017 We believe the changes to be incremental to the approved policy 2017 was the first year following the announcement of our new butwe are required to submit the revised policy to a shareholder strategy.
It was a year of change and challenge for the Group as we vote at the 2018 AGM.
We hope that the revised policy will receive set about implementing this strategy.
substantial uplifting of financial performance, with EBITDA of 229 million 2016: 140 million.
This was principally due to high levels of Technically the revised policy, if approved, would be valid for three renewable generation, but also from the growth of our B2B Energy years, until the AGM in 2021.
However, we intend to keep to the Supply business.
A new capital structure and dividend policy were timetable for the original policy.
Therefore, we will make a full review concluded, which will see the Group pay a sustainable and growing of the revised policy in 2019, incorporating the results of this review dividend to shareholders.
into a new policy for shareholder consideration at the 2020 AGM.
In support of the strategy, the Group acquired Opus Energy the CHANGES TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY leading challenger brand in the UK SME energy market.
In-sourcing At the 2017 AGM, shareholders approved a new remuneration policy of this business has progressed well.
The Group also acquired a third for the executive directors.
A component of this policy, namely the biomass pellet plant LaSalle Bioenergy.
This has been upgraded and operation of the annual bonus, applies both to executive directors at the end of the year was commissioning.
In Power Generation, plans and employees.
As part of a wider project to align processes and raise for a fourth biomass unit were progressed.
Having received the efficiency, a decision has been taken as to how the bonus formula will necessary Government support the conversion will go ahead in 2018. apply to employees from the financial year ending 31 December 2018 The development of the options for rapid response gas generation at onwards.
The changes we are proposing comprise two amendments four sites around the UK was continued, with two sites ready for to the approved Remuneration Policy, which are designed to ensure construction, subject to securing a capacity market agreement.
The aconsistent approach to our bonus arrangements for executive repowering project, being two combined cycle gas turbine plants directors and employees.
These changes are set out in detail in the plus battery storage, to be built on the Drax site, was scoped and report but in summary they are: taken into the planning process.
i removal of the personal performance component of the bonus Operationally, performance was mixed.
The ramp up of pellet output formula.
In future, bonuses will be earned for the delivery of at Drax Biomass was down on plan but this reflected a slower start to stretching corporate and divisional related financial, strategic the year, followed by a strong nish which augurs well for 2018. and operational targets, as measured through the Corporate Power Generation continued to meet a significant amount of the Scorecard: and UKs renewable electricity and provided good support to the ii an increase in the level of Corporate Scorecard performance electricity systems stability.
However, plant availability was below which must be attained for maximum bonus payout, thereby plan, including the December unplanned outage which impacted strengthening the link between corporate performance and theend of 2017 with the disruption continuing into 2018.
Opus Energy met the planned EBITDA andhad a high customer retention while Haven Power The rigour in setting and scoring the Corporate Scorecard will not exceeded planned EBITDA and was well up on the prior year.
The Committee will retain the discretion to adjust the bonus if the Corporate Scorecard outcome is not reflective of Management continued to make the case for biomass with the result corporate or an individual executives performance.
that the Government, in early 2018, provided the necessary support to allow the conversion of a fourth unit.
There was continued high The proposed changes simplify the remuneration arrangements attention to biomass sustainability.
Feedback to the Board from forthe executive directors as well as aligning the approach to bonus various site visits and the results of third party audits gives for all employees.
As set out further in the report, I believe that the confidence that sustainability is well embedded.
removal of the personal performance component also addresses the concern raised by shareholders in feedback on our current policy about the continuing use of such a component in the determination of bonus.
We are not proposing changes to the 2017 Performance Share Plan.
Therefore our incentive arrangements will be linked only to performance under the Corporate Scorecard and Total Shareholder Return from 2018.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 83 83 The Group is committed to paying an externally competitive salary LONG-TERM ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE consistent with an employees role.
In order to provide the basis BMP awards made in 2015 were tested at the end of 2017 by foraconsistent approach to setting salary across the Group, reference to relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance 50% and on the three-year average of the Corporate Scorecard management carried out a Group-wide job grading and salary benchmarking exercise.
The results will now be worked through.
The Companys TSR over the period was below the median of exercise was in addition to the review of performance management the comparator group, and the Committee therefore confirmed that that led to the changes in the bonus formula discussed above.
In line none of the TSR element of the award would vest.
The average with the Gender Pay Gap reporting requirements, details for the Corporate Scorecard outcome over the same period was 0.97 out of individual subsidiary companies in the UK will be submitted by the 1.5, and as the vesting threshold is 1.0 there will be a nil vesting of the required deadline.
executive directors 2015 BMP performance awards.
I hope you nd the above statement helpful background to the The Committee decided not to exercise its discretion in determining following section on the Committees assessment of executive the outcome for the possible vesting of performance awards.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE IN 2017 The current remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Please note that the assessment of performance for 2017 is made Remuneration for 2016 were approved by the majority of investors under the current policy.
The proposed changes to the policy, as in2017, but we are conscious that a significant minority of shares described above and in greater detail on page 87, would not come were voted against the policy and, particularly, the annual report.
The into effect until immediately after the 2018 AGM.
Committee has discussed the shareholder feedback and noted areas of concern for future consideration.
As outlined above, a concern The Committee determines the remuneration of the executive wepropose to address short term is the use of personal measures directors and members of the Executive Committee against the inthecalculation of the executives annual bonuses.
Our proposal strategic objectives and priorities of the company.
Executive toremove the personal element simplies the remuneration performance is therefore closely aligned to business performance arrangements and aligns the approach to the executives bonuses with a high proportion of total remuneration delivered through with that of our other employees.
variable pay designed to reward achievement of short and long-term strategic targets.
We continue to monitor developments in executive remuneration.
Notablythis year, we have considered the likely revisions to There is a detailed review of performance against our balanced theCorporate Governance Code.
We are supportive of the changes.
We recognise that these will widen the Remuneration Committees scorecard measures on page 99.
Components within the scorecard can be scored between 0 and 2.0.
A score of 1 represents an responsibility, both in overseeing pay arrangements across the on-target performance.
For 2017 the Board assessed the overall Company and being seen to take into account the different performance at 0.84.
The Committee, having reviewed the stakeholder views when setting executive director remuneration.
performance of the Group over the year, believes this outturn of the APPLICATION OF POLICY Corporate Scorecard is reflective of overall performance.
During the year we applied the executive remuneration policy The score is applied both to the annual bonus and the Bonus thatwas approved by shareholders in 2017.
We have listened to Matching Plan BMP.
For the purposes of the annual bonus the shareholders and taken account of emerging best practice and overall score in any year is capped at 1.5.
There is no cap on the annual thisis reflected in the outcomes to the following areas addressed score when applied to the BMP scorecard, but there is a cap of 1.5 on inthe year: the average for the three years.
i proposed an amendment to the policy for 2018 onwards to The Committee assessed the personal performance of each remove the personal element of the annual bonus, which will executive in driving the 2017 performance and delivering on the simplify the bonus arrangements, align pay and performance strategy.
This assessment was both as regards their individual and ensure bonus arrangements for executive directors are contribution and as a member of the executive team.
consistent with those for the wider workforce: ii used judgement as regards the treatment of the outgoing Group Based on performance, a corporate score of 0.84 out of 2 and CEO, Dorothy Thompson, taking into account the remuneration personal score of 1.25 out of 1.5 was agreed by the Committee, policy, plan rules and her service agreement: resulting in annual bonuses of approximately 53% of maximum.
iii applied judgement on the remuneration package for the TheCommittee believes that this bonus outcome fairly reflects incoming Group CEO, balancing the need to remunerate executive directors performance.
competitively a high quality individual with the objective to stop the ratcheting up of remuneration: and iv used judgement in determining the pay outcomes for the year in the context of performance achieved.
In addition to the above, the Committee reviewed and approved the proposed changes resulting from the extensive project in employee job grading and pay benchmarking carried out across the Group.
8 84 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED CHANGES TO THE BOARD BASE SALARIES We announced in September 2017 that Dorothy Thompson, Chief The salaries of Dorothy Thompson, Will Gardiner and Andy Koss were Executive officer, had given notice of her intention to stand down as reviewed and increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 April 2017.
This was in line with the average increase for the wider workforce.
It was agreed that she would leave prior to the completion of her 12 month notice period on 31 December 2017.
TheCommittee undertook a detailed review of the treatment of SUMMARY Dorothys remuneration, taking into account the circumstances of I, and the other members of the Committee, are satisfied that the her leaving Drax and her performance up to the date of retirement 2017 remuneration outcomes fairly reflect corporate and personal which has continued to be strong.
Further detail is provided on the performance.
We are confident that the changes to our policy to individual elements of remuneration within the Annual Report on remove the personal element of the bonus formula and to increase Remuneration but in summary: the level of performance required for maximum bonus, provide a fair and consistent approach to remuneration across the Group and are Dorothy was treated as a good leaver for the purpose of the in theshareholders interests.
outstanding share awards, with pro-rating from the date the awardwas granted to the date of leaving i. e. 31 December 2017: pro-rated performance related share awards will vest at the normal vesting date subject to performance conditions being met: pro-rated deferred share awards granted under the legacy BMP vested shortly after retirement in accordance with the provisions ofthe previous remuneration policy and the BMP scheme rules: and Dorothy is entitled to salary, pension and other benets for the unworked period of notice from 1 January 2018 to 20 September 2018 and is also contractually eligible to be considered for a bonus for the unworked period of notice during which she was unable to earn a bonus, with the bonus amount to be determined in the usual way for all executives, early in 2019.
The Committee is confident that the decisions made in relation to Dorothys remuneration are fair to her and to the Company, taking into account her outstanding performance, the agreed termination date, the provisions of the remuneration policy applying to executive directors and her employment contract.
We are conscious that the payment of bonus for the unworked notice period as provided for in Dorothys contract and our remuneration policy, is less common in the market and, as discussed with our major shareholders, we have committed not to include this for any newly appointed directors in future service contracts, including that of the new Group CEO.
Dorothy is succeeded by Will Gardiner, who has been our Group CFO since his appointment in November 2015.
Wills base salary was increased to 530,000 on his promotion.
His other elements of pay will be in line with those for Dorothy.
Will has been a member of the Board over the last two years and is a key architect of the Company strategy.
We look forward to working with him in his new role over the coming years.
A process to appoint a new permanent Group CFO is underway and in the meantime Den Jones has been appointed as Interim Group CFO.
Den is highly experienced, having previously been CFO at Johnson Matthey and BG Group.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 85 85 Corporate score result REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE 0.84 Below is a top line summary of the 2017 remuneration earned by each of our executive directors during 2017.
This shows the alignment between our remuneration framework, the Companys performance and how the payments to directors in 2017 link to this.
The Remuneration Report is DOROTHY THOMPSON GROUP CEO 000s colour-coded as follows: 585 117 463 71 Total Base salary 1,236,000 Pension 2017 Annual bonus 574 115 756 74 76 Total LTIP 1,595,000 Other benets 2016 WILL GARDINER GROUP CFO 000s 397 79 294 20 Total 790,000 2017 390 78 479 24 Total 971,000 2016 ANDY KOSS CHIEF EXECUTIVE, DRAX POWER 000s 316 63 234 19 Total 632,000 2017 310 62 381 19 21 Total 793,000 2016 Bonus is the total value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the cash bonus and the value of bonus deferred which is paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service.
The performance conditions for the BMP Matching Awards awarded in March 2015 and due to vest inMarch 2018 were not met and therefore there was a nil vesting of BMP Matching Awards in 2018.
BONUS EARNED FOR 2017 The resulting bonus outcomes as a percentage of base salary were: BONUS EARNED FOR GROUP CEO BONUS EARNED FOR OTHER EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TARGET CORPORATE PERSONAL TARGET CORPORATE PERSONAL BONUS SCORE SCORE BONUS SCORE SCORE XX XX 75% 0.84 1.25 70% 0.84 1.25 Group CEO 79% of salary out of a maximum of Executive directors 74% of salary out of 150% salary a maximum of 140% salary 8 86 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED BONUS EARNED FOR 2017 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements Of which paid in Of which deferred Bonus cash into shares 2017 bonus earned 65% of bonus 35% of bonus Executive Director as % base salary 000 000 000 Dorothy Thompson, Group CEO 79% 463 301 162 Will Gardiner, Group CFO 74% 294 191 103 Andy Koss, CEO, Drax Power 74% 234 152 82 ANNUAL BONUS INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2017 Area Weighting Score Outcome Financial Overall corporate score CS maximum 2 0.84 Group Business Units 45% 1.0 Executive directors personal score PS maximum 1.5 1.25 Operations 40% 0.4 Bonus outcome as % of maximum Strategy CS x PS x 50% 53% Development Implementation 15% 1.6 Range of bonus outcomes as % of salary 7479% LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP For BMP awards granted in March 2015, vesting was conditional upon two performance measures with up to 50% of shares vesting subject to TSR performance and up to 50% of shares vesting subject to Company Scorecard performance as below: Total shareholder return TSR 50% Company Scorecard 50% TSR performance over three years relative Company Scorecard performance averaged over the three-year to FTSE 51150 as follows: performance period as follows capped at 1.5 : Below median 0% vesting Score 1 0% vesting At median 15% vesting threshold Score 1 15% vesting threshold score Upper quartile 100% vesting Score 1.5 100% vesting The outturn for the vesting of awards in 2018 is: BMP Weighting Score Outcome 2015 corporate score 16.6% 0.76 2016 corporate score 16.6% 1.30 2017 corporate score 16.6% 0.84 Average corporate score maximum 1.5 50% 0.97 Relative TSR performance 50% 0% BMP outcome as a % of maximum 0% 0% The Committee considered the circumstances surrounding the outturn for 2018 and following discussion chose not to exercise its discretion and thus there will be a nil vesting of the BMP performance awards made in 2015.
Page 101 PAY RATIOS 2017 2016 We have considered the likely revisions to the Corporate Governance Code.
12.8 : 1 9.6 : 1 The ratio of the average pensionable pay of an executive director to the average for all UK employees is shown here.
The structure of the workforce changed in 2017 due primarily to the acquisition of Opus Energy.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 87 87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY As set out in the Chairman of the Committees Annual Statement to Shareholders, we are proposing changes to the current remuneration policy which, in order to be effected, require shareholders approval.
This revised remuneration policy, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM, will be effective from immediately after the AGM on 25 April 2018.
Normally it would be binding on the Group for three years but, as outlined earlier, the Committee intends to review the policy in 2019 and incorporate the results of this review in a policy to be presented to shareholders at the 2020 AGM.
Therefore the results of the 2018 vote on the revised policy will be binding for two years, until the close of the 2020 AGM.
The core principles of the remuneration policy are set out below: making sure that executive remuneration is linked strongly to performance and the achievement of strategic objectives: ensuring transparency in executive pay reporting through simplication in design and appropriate reporting: securing and retaining top talent and incentivising strong performance: and maintaining flexibility, to recognise the uncertain business environment, whilst ensuring that remuneration outcomes are aligned to shareholder interests.
CHANGES TO THE POLICY As described in the Chairmans Statement, the proposed changes to the current remuneration policy ensure a consistent approach to our bonus arrangements for executive directors and employees.
These changes are: removal of the personal performance component of the bonus formula such that the formula moves from target bonus x corporate scorexpersonal score to target bonus x corporate score.
In future, bonuses will be earned solely for the delivery of stretching corporate and divisional related financial, strategic and operational targets, as measured through the Corporate Scorecard: and raising the level of Corporate Scorecard performance which must be attained for maximum bonus pay out from maximum bonus pay out being possible at a score of 1.5 to a score of 2.0 thereby strengthening the link between corporate performance and incentive pay outs.
The rigour in setting and scoring the Corporate Scorecard will not be changed.
The proposed changes toughen the operation of bonus arrangements as the executives personal score in recent years has had the effect of increasing the bonus outcome from what would have been earned through the Corporate Scorecard alone.
The Committee will retain the overall discretion to adjust the bonus if the Corporate Scorecard outcome is not reflective of corporate or individual performance in the year.
We are not proposing any other change to the Directors Remuneration Policy approved at the 2017 AGM, except for minor changes to the wording to clarify the operation of the policy.
The following is an overview of our remuneration framework under the revised policy.
8 88 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KEY COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to support the delivery of strong business performance and the creation of shareholder value.
We set out in the table below the policy relating to the key components of the remuneration policy for executive directors, and in the notes following the table we comment on differences between this policy and that for the remuneration of employees generally.
BASE SALARY Base salary helps to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive to deliver the leadership and management needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
PRACTICAL OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE Base salary reflects the role, the executives skills and experience, The base salaries of executive directors in post at the start of the and market level.
It is paid in 12 monthly instalments.
policy period, and who remain in the same role throughout the policy period, will not usually be increased by a higher percentage than the To determine the market level, the Committee reviews average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other Group remuneration data on executive positions at companies which employees in the Group.
theCommittee considers to be appropriate comparators.
Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development, are The comparator companies are selected, with advice from the where: Committees remuneration advisers, taking into account factors i An executive director has been appointed at below market level to such as, but not limited to, sector, size, and international presence.
Under this scenario, increases will be capped at 5% above the average annual percentage increase in salaries of On appointment, an executive directors base salary is set at the all other Group employees.
market level, or below if the executive is not fully experienced at ii An executive director has been promoted internally and their this level.
salary is below market level.
Under this scenario, increases will not be capped and the Committee can increase base salary to the Where base salary on appointment is below market level to reflect market level within an appropriate timeframe.
experience, it will be increased over time to align with the market level, subject to performance.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES No performance measures apply.
Base salaries of all executive directors are generally reviewed once each year, with increases applying from April.
Reviews cover individual performance, experience, development in the role and market comparisons.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 89 89 ANNUAL BONUS The award of annual bonuses is linked directly to personal performance and to achieving the annual Business Plan targets.
The aim of the deferred portion of annual bonus is to further align executives to shareholders interests, by linking share-based reward to long-term sustainable performance.
PRACTICAL OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE 65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash, normally three months Maximum bonus potential after the end of the financial year to which it relates.
Role % of base salary Chief Executive, Drax Group 150% 35% of annual bonus earned is deferred in nil cost awards over shares under the Deferred Share Plan DSP, which vest after Other executive directors 140% three years subject to continued employment or good leaver termination provisions.
There is no payment for below threshold performance.
The DSP was introduced in 2017, as a vehicle for deferring the PERFORMANCE MEASURES relevant proportion of annual bonus in shares.
Corporate score is based on performance, against the Corporate Scorecard, of strategic and Business Plan targets set, each year, by Annual bonus earned subject to the maximum opportunity is: the Committee, in conjunction with the Board.
Performance measures include financial, operational and strategic objectives.
Typically, Target bonus x corporate score.
across the Group and Business Units, around 40% of the Scorecard Target bonus is 50% of maximum.
is based on financial objectives, 3040% on strategic goals with the Corporate score ranges from zero to 2.0. balance on operational issues.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the weightings from year to year.
Each measure in the corporate scorecard is assigned a weighting and three performance levels low, target and stretch.
The score is The corporate scorecard is amended each year, in line with business zero if performance is below the low target, one if performance is strategy and objectives.
at target and two for stretch performance.
In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee believes Dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate, the additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest.
Committee has discretion to amend performance measures and targets during the year.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply clawback to any annual bonus awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table.
Summary corporate scorecard and performance results are published in the Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the Annual bonus and has the discretion to amend the final outcome to make sure that bonus payments reflect overall performance.
The use of such discretion will be explained fully in the relevant Annual report on remuneration.
9 90 0 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED DRAX 2017 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP The PSP is the Companys new long-term incentive plan.
It replaces the legacy BMP and links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
PRACTICAL OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE The PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The maximum annual grant is 175% of base salary.
Under the PSP, executive directors receive an annual grant of nil PERFORMANCE MEASURES cost conditional awards over shares.
There are two performance measures which apply to PSP awards, as follows: Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to continued service or good leaver termination provisions, and the i TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 350 achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period comparator group 50% of award, vesting as follows: determined by the Committee.
Vested awards are subject to a Below Median 0% further holding period of two years.
At Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assume notional reinvestment are paid on PSP awards.
ii Average corporate scorecard as described in the annual bonus over three financial years 50% of award, vesting as follows: The Committee will include an override provision in each grant Average Score 0.75 0% under the PSP.
This will give the Committee discretion to determine Average Score 1 50% that no vesting shall occur, or that vesting shall be reduced, if there Average Score 1.5 100% are circumstances relating to the Companys overall performance or otherwise which make vesting when calculated by reference to While each annual corporate score can range from zero to 2.0, the the performance conditions alone inappropriate.
three-year average corporate score is capped at 1.5.
For illustration: In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus or Year 1 Score 1.8 clawback to unvested vested awards, as set out in the notes to the Year 2 Score 0.9 policy table.
Year 3 Score 1.2 Average corporate score 1.3 The Committee reserves discretion to: Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for both i amend the performance conditions targets attached to outstanding awards granted under this policy, in the event conditions.
ofamajor corporate event or significant change in economic circumstances, or a change in accounting standards having amaterial impact on outcomes: and ii adjust the vesting of PSP awards and or the number of shares underlying unvested PSP awards, on the occurrence of a corporate event or other reorganisation.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment of long-term incentives will be determined in accordance with the relevant planrules.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 91 91 PENSION Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery of the leadership and management needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
PRACTICAL OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership Maximum is 20% of base salary.
of the Groups dened contribution pension plan.
The employers contribution for executive directors is 20% of base salary.
Alternatively, at their option, executive directors may either have contributions of the same amounts made to their personal pension schemes, cash in lieu of pension subject to normal statutory deductions : or a combination of pension contributions and cash in lieu of pension.
BENEFITS Benets are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of directors total remuneration.
PRACTICAL OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE Executive directors receive a car allowance, life assurance four Benets are set at a level appropriate to the individuals role and times salary, the opportunity to participate in all-employee share circumstances.
plans on the same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment and annual private medical cover.
The maximum opportunity will depend on the type of benefit and cost of its provision, which will vary according to the market and individual Additional benets may be provided if the Committee considers circumstances.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES Relocation expenses and or second base expenses are paid, where No performance measures apply.
Directors relocation expenses are determined on a case-by-case basis.
The policy is designed to assist the director to relocate to a home of similar standing.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINE The Groups share ownership guidelines align the interests of executives with shareholders.
PRACTICAL OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE The share ownership guideline is that all executive directors should N A retain shares to the value of 200% of base salary, to be accumulated over five years.
Until this level is reached, directors PERFORMANCE MEASURES who receive shares by virtue of any share plan award or who N A receive deferred bonus shares must retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions.
Only shares that have actually vested count towards the threshold.
ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE BMP AWARDS MADE IN 2015, 2016 AND 2017 Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Performance measures Bonus Matching Plan deferred awards made in Vesting is subject to the achievement of Vesting of conditional awards is subject to relative 2015, 2016 and 2017 and conditional awards made performance conditions conditional awards and TSR and average Corporate Scorecard outcome in 2015 and 2016. continued service or good leaver termination overthree years.
provisions deferred and conditional awards.
Links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan Further details of the terms of the awards were strategictargets.
included in the Annual remuneration reports for the respective years.
9 92 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND APPROACH TO SETTING TARGETS The measures for elements of variable pay are: Corporate Scorecard, consisting of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the Committee each year in conjunction with the Board.
TheCorporate Scorecard aligns incentives of executive directors with achievement of key business goals.
Relative TSR, which aligns executive director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the Business Plan and other circumstances as appropriate.
A summary of the Corporate Scorecard targets that apply for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH MALUS OR CLAWBACK MAY APPLY Malus and or clawback may be applied to incentive awards under the following circumstances: Clawback for the annual bonus the Committee may require a director to repay any amount of annual bonus payment it considers appropriate, in circumstances of financial misstatement, or misconduct, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Malus and clawback for the BMP if a repayment of bonus is required see annual bonus above the Committee shall reduce the number of shares that may vest under the BMP by an appropriate amount in respect of an award made pursuant to the annual bonus payment subject to the clawback.
The Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a BMP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Malus and clawback for the PSP and DSP the Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a PSP and or DSP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
COMMITTEES JUDGEMENT AND DISCRETION In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives payable, the Committee has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to executive directors remuneration.
These include, but are not limited to: reviewing the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and applying discretion to amend the final outcome, to ensure that bonus payments reflect overall performance or an individual executives performance: deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award: and determining whether a leaver is a good leaver.
Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant directors remuneration report.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS The composition and value of the executive directors remuneration packages at low, target and stretch performance scenarios under the Drax Group remuneration policy are set out in the charts below.
The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following table: BASE SALARY, PENSION AND BENEFITS Description Scenario Annual bonus PSP Salary is the rate payable to each director from Low None None 1 January 2017 The value of benets is taken from the single gure Target 50% of the maximum bonus TSR: 62.5% vesting for the year ended 31 December 2017 midpoint between threshold and maximum Scorecard: 50% vesting Pension is the value of the pension payable on the Stretch Maximum bonus 150% of salary Maximum PSP opportunity 175% of salary with no salary rate used for Group Chief Executive, 140% of allowance for share price appreciation or dividend salary for other executive directors equivalents WILL GARDINER ANDY KOSS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE, DRAX POWER, 000, 000 2,353 1,600 3,000 1,401 1,400 2,500 936 39% 1,200 1,549 40% 2,000 1,000 33% 34% 800 1,500 34% 24% 32% 600 26% 630 1,000 400 Fixed elements 400 100% 41% 27% 100% Annual variable 500 43% 28% 200 Multi-period variable 0 Low Target Stretch 0 Low Target Stretch Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 93 93 APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committee will apply the core principles on page 87 and the components set out in the table on pages 88 to 92 to determine the remuneration of newly appointed directors.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the director being appointed.
Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to good performance.
Theincentive provision for a new executive director will include annual bonus up to 150% of salary and a PSP award of up to 175% of salary.
In relation to directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment of the director, the Committee may: pay compensation for loss of benets on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives subjectto the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Companys right to clawback any amount which is subsequently paid to the executive by the former employer, and to claw back an appropriate proportion of the payment if the executive leaves soon after appointment : and make appropriate payments in circumstances where a director is relocated from outside the UK.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND COMPENSATION ON LOSS OF OFFICE Executive directors service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months notice.
Element Details Notice periods Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Under each of the executive directors service agreements, the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benets that would have accrued to the executive director during the contractual notice period.
Compensation If an executive directors employment is brought to an end by either party and if it is necessary to determine a termination payment, for loss of ofce the Committees policy, in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to determine a directors termination payment in accordance with his her service agreement.
The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benets that would have accrued to the director during the contractual notice period.
The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement.
It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation if the director has secured another job at a similar level.
Mitigation would not apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his her statutory rights.
The Group may pay reasonable fees for a departing director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their termination arrangements and nominal consideration for agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Companys rights following termination.
No service agreement includes any provision for the payment of compensation upon termination.
Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need tobedetermined at the time and in the light of the circumstances.
Treatment of annual All bonus payments are discretionary benets.
The Committee will consider whether a departing director should receive an annual bonus on termination bonus in respect of the financial year in which, and or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the date of termination.
The Committee will take into account performance: cooperation with succession: any breach of goodwill, and adherence to contractual obligations restrictions.
If the termination is by the Company on less than the notice specified in the directors service agreement and, if required, in order to adhere to contractual obligations, the Committee will also consider whether the director should receive an annual bonus in respect of any period of the financial year following termination for which the director has been deprived of the opportunity to earn annual bonus.
As outlined earlier in the report the latest Chief Executive service contract for Will Gardiner as Group CEO, does not allow for the payment of bonus after termination.
If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the director will be treated as a good leaver and the director will be eligible for a bonus payment: redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company: and death.
If the termination is for any other reason, a bonus payment will be at the Committees discretion and it is the Committees policy to ensure that any such bonus payment properly reflects the departing directors performance and behaviour towards the Company.
Therefore the amount of any such payment will be determined as described in the table on page 92, taking into account i the directors personal performance and behaviour towards the Company and ii the Group performance.
If a bonus payment is made, it will normally be paid as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been determined for the relevant period.
There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the bonus payment to be made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target Group performance score shall be assumed.
No payment will be made unless the director is employed on the date of bonus payment, except for good leavers as dened above.
9 94 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Element Details Treatment of unvested The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the director under the BMP, DSP long-term incentive and and PSP should lapse or vest.
Any determination by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the BMP, DSP and PSP deferred share awards asapproved by shareholders.
ontermination In summary, the rules of the BMP and PSP provide that awards will vest pro-rated to the date of employment termination ifemployment ends for any of the following reasons long-term good leaver reasons : redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company: change of ownership: and death.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the BMP and PSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so, it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Companys performance: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, deferred and conditional shares vest as soon as reasonably practicable following termination.
Awards, which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated and will be phased over the performance cycle of the relevant awards.
The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest in full if employment ends for any of the long-term good leaver reasons detailed above.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the DSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Companys performance: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: and a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the DSP and PSP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises discretion to vest awards earlier.
Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions will be time pro-rated.
Outside appointments Executive directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chairmans approval.
Normally only one appointment to a listed company would be approved.
Fees may be retained by the director.
CONSIDERATION OF CIRCUMSTANCES FOR LEAVERS The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benets accruing to a leaving director is fair and appropriate, taking account of all relevant circumstances.
Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award an annual bonus payment and or permit the vesting of PSP awards include: the directors continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice: and the director accommodating the Company in the timing of his her departure and handover arrangements.
Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is: poor performance: or the director does not continue to perform effectively following notice.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 95 95 REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIRMAN Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Maximum potential value Fees The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Committee Overall aggregate fees paid to all nonTo attract a Chairman and independent whilst that of the other non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors will remain within the non-executive directors who, together Chairman and the executive directors.
These are determined in the limit as stated in the Companys Articles with the executive directors, form a light of: currently 1,000,000.
Board with a broad range of skills and fees of chairmen and non-executive directors of other listed experience.
companies selected for comparator purposes, on the same basis as for executive directors: the responsibilities and time commitment: and the need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators.
They were last reviewed in 2017.
Current fee levels are shown in the annual report on remuneration.
The Chairman receives an annual fee.
Non-executive directors receive an annual base fee.
Additional annual fees are paid: to the Senior Independent Director which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee : to the Chair of the Audit Committee: to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and to the Chair of any other committee this is not paid to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee if he or she is also the Chairman of the Board.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration arrangements.
Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are reimbursed Expenses asapplicable.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benets in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the Groups share-based reward plans.
The Chairmans notice period is six months whilst the other non-executive directors have a notice period of one month.
9 96 6 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE POLICY AND THAT OF THE REMUNERATION OF EMPLOYEES GENERALLY The following differences apply between the remuneration of directors and the policy on the remuneration of employees generally: executive directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for PSP awards, although there are differences in terms of levels ofgrant: annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, but the requirement to defer a portion of annual bonus applies only to executive directors: employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus subject to Company performance and continued employment, whereas directors and all other UK-based employees participate in a discretionary bonus scheme: and hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments.
CONTEXT Wider employee population In determining executive remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group.
The Committees policy is that annual salary increases for executive directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase forthewider employee population unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an executive director has been appointed at a salary below market level reflecting experience in the role.
The Committee has considered a number of comparison metrics when determining its approach to executive remuneration, including the ratio of Group Chief Executive to median employee pay.
Views taken from the employee population In the course of discussions on pay with employee representatives, the Group discusses executive remuneration policy and provides details of the process by which the Committee establishes executive remuneration packages.
The information provided includes details of the benchmarking of executive director remuneration, as well as information benchmarking the pay of employees in the collective bargaining unit with pay elsewhere in the industry.
Environmental, social and governance issues The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration ofexecutive directors.
Specic measures can be included in the balanced Corporate Scorecard.
The Committee is also able to consider these issues in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score, and in considering the performance conditions override under the PSP, as described on page 92.
Shareholder engagement The Company holds regular meetings with its largest shareholders, and the Committee takes into account all shareholder views or representations relating to executive remuneration.
We held discussions with a number of shareholders leading up to and around the time of the 2017 AGM and the Committee has considered this feedback.
The proposal to remove the personal element from the annual bonus within the current policy takes on board that feedback.
We wrote to a number of shareholders in late 2017 to explain the proposed changes to the remuneration policy for executive directors.
The Committee takes shareholder feedback very seriously and will continue to engage.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 97 97 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The relevant sections of this report have been audited as required by the Regulations and, in accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 25 April 2018.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EACH DIRECTOR AUDITED INFORMATION The table below sets out the single gure of remuneration and the breakdown for each executive director for 2017, together with comparative gures for 2016: 1 2 4 Salary Fees Pension Bonus Long Term Incentives Other benets Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 Name 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Dorothy Thompson 585 574 117 115 463 756 0 74 71 76 1,236 1,595 Will Gardiner 397 390 79 78 294 479 20 24 790 971 Andy Koss 316 310 63 62 234 381 0 19 19 21 632 793 Notes: 1 Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service 2 There is a nil vesting of BMP awards that would vest in 2018, due to the performance conditions in respect of the 2015 BMP awards not being satisfied 3 The BMP figure for 2016 is the value of the BMP Matching Awards granted in March 2014 which vested in March 2017, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares.
The value has been re-stated to reflect the share price of 3.415 at the vesting date of 13 March 2017 4 Other benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, permanent health insurance, dependents pension, and prior to her ceasing to be a director on 31 December 2017, in the caseof Dorothy Thompson, a second base allowance BASE SALARIES The base salaries of the executive directors as at 31 December 2017, together with comparative gures as at 31 December 2016, are shown in the following table: Base salary as at Base salary as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Percentage 000 000 increase Andy Koss 318 310 2.5% Will Gardiner 400 390 2.5% Dorothy Thompson 588 574 2.5% Base salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 April 2017.
In line with policy, the salaries of Dorothy Thompson, Will Gardiner and Andy Koss were reviewed and increased by 2.5%.
This was in line with the average increase for the wider workforce of 2.5%.
Will Gardiners salary was increased to 530,000 as at 1 January 2018 on his promotion to Group CEO.
ANNUAL FEES Will Gardiners salary increased to 530,000 as at 1 January 2018 on his promotion to Group CEO.
Fees at Fees at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Percentage 000 000 increase Chairman 250 250 0% Non-Executive Director base fee 55 55 0% Senior Independent Director 10 10 0% Audit Committee Chair 10 10 0% Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 0% 1 Nomination Committee Chair 7.5 7.5 0% Note: 1 This is not paid if the Chairman of the Nomination Committee is also the Chairman of the Board 9 98 8 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The table below sets out the single gure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director for 2017 together with comparative gures for 2016: Additional fee for Senior Additional fee Independent for chairing a Base fee Director committee Total 000 000 000 000 Philip Cox Chairman of the Board and Chairman of Nomination Committee 2017 250 250 2016 250 250 Tim Cobbold 2017 55 55 20165555 David Lindsell Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 2017 55 10 10 75 2016 55 10 10 75 1 David Nussbaum 2017 23 23 2016 Tony Thorne Chairman of Remuneration Committee 2017 55 10 65 2016 55 10 65 Note: 1 David Nussbaum was appointed as a director of the Board on 1 August 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 99 99 DETAILS OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST METRICS FOR VARIABLE PAY AWARDS Annual bonus plan outcome A summary of the Committees assessment in respect of the 2017 Corporate Scorecard is set out in the following table: Target Stretch weighting Low target Target target Outturn Score Group Corporate Safety Total recordable injury rate 5% 0.70 0.30 0.15 0.27 1.2 Finance Group underlying earnings per share pence 10% 0.0 4.7 10.6 0.7 0.1 Group underlying EBITDA m 10% 201 231 266 229 0.9 Group net debt m 10% 562 532 497 367 2.0 Pellet quality DBI fines at disport % 5% 7.5% 6.5% 4.5% 9.6% 0.0 Strategy New strategy implementation 15% Behind plan On plan Ahead of plan Ahead of plan 1.6 Drax Biomass Variable cost tonne $ 5% 71.05 69.90 65.95 76.72 0.0 Output K tonnes 2.5% 800 880 950 822 0.3 Drax Power Biomass unit technical availability % 10% ND ND ND Below target 0.0 Value from flexibility m 5% 82 97 112 88 0.4 Haven Power Haven Power EBITDA m 5% 4 0 4 2 1.6 Implementation of new ERP 2.5% Q1 2018 Q4 2017 Q3 2017 Q2 2018 0.0 Opus Energy Opus Energy EBITDA m 5% 29 29 33 29.1 1.0 Opus Energy sales volumes TWh 5% 5.9 6.3 6.7 5.7 0.0 Renewal rate % 5% ND ND ND Above target 1.6 Total weighting 100% 0.84 Notes: The targets were aligned with the Groups strategy and 2017 Business Plan and reviewed regularly by the Board as part of their ongoing scrutiny of business and executive performance ND Not Disclosed.
It is considered that the disclosure of detailed performance against these metrics would be commercially sensitive.
It would therefore not be appropriate to disclose thesefigures.
Todosomay result in unfair competitive disadvantage to the Group and to consumers.
All results were reviewed by the Committee prior to values being removed 1 100 00 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Outlined below is a brief synopsis of the KPIs used and their strategic rationale: Group Safety is the first priority for the business.
The Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR is dened as the number of incidents per 100,000 hours worked.
A TRIR of 0.30 represents industry upper quartile safety performance.
Financial performance metrics are based on underlying EBITDA, underlying EPS and Net Debt.
The weighting at 30% reflects the priority given to a strong Group financial performance.
Pellet quality impacts both Drax Biomass and Drax Power.
The Groups strategic objective is 30% self-supply of high quality pellets, to fuel its biomass generation units.
The fines metric is used to drive pellet quality, from own supply.
New strategy implementation allows the Board to assess progress against a small number of specic strategic objectives.
The weighting demonstrates the Boards commitment to the further development of the Group.
Drax Biomass We remain focused on developing strong in-house pellet supply capability, able to provide up to 30% of the biomass fuel required by Drax Power.
Aside from fines whch are a Group issue, the focus is pellet output, particularly relevant as plants are commissioned and rise up their development curve, and pellet production costs, which have a direct impact on gross margins available from generation.
Drax Power The value available to the Group from biomass-fuelled generation is a key driver of gross margins.
Biomass unit technical availability reflects the value that can be derived from maximising biomass unit output.
The value from operational flexibility acknowledges the changing nature of the UKs electricity sector and the value available to generators able to fully support the grid.
This system support has emerged as a key revenue driver as coal-fuelled generation has declined.
Haven Power During 2017 our Haven Power retail business has focused on improving profitability and making a positive financial contribution to the Group.
The EBITDA reflects this ambition.
To drive the future performance of the business it will need to engage with customers through suitable digital platforms and the implementation of new IT systems forms part of this development.
Opus Energy Opus Energy was acquired in February 2017 and, in the year, there has been a strong attention to its successful integration, with emphasis on maintaining its growth and profitability.
The targets within the three metrics are consistent with the acquisition case.
Further details of how these individual metrics support the business strategy and drive both shareholder value and performance can be found on pages 157.
The Committee made an in-depth review of the score for each of the performance measures, to make sure these were individually supportable, and then reviewed the overall outcome, to determine whether to exercise its discretion and adjust the final score.
The majority of the measures are quantitative but for reasons of commercial sensitivity some of the targets are not disclosed in the Annualreport.
The Committee aims for maximum transparency so the decision not to disclose a target is closely reviewed.
PERSONAL PERFORMANCE The members of the Executive Committee, including the executive directors were assessed both relative to their individual contribution in driving 2017 performance, and as a team.
Key to the assessment was each individuals contribution to delivering the Groups strategy and 2017 Business Plan plus the promotion of the Drax values.
Individual and executive team performance were both considered to be strong.
This included good cooperation across the team, which was key to progressing the strategy and to the successful integration of Opus Energy.
With respect to the executive directors, areas of particular note included the: Group CEOs strong and effective leadership of the Group, the work on sustainability and the development, promotion and implementation of the new strategy, which included two significant acquisitions.
She also gave strong support to the new HR strategy: Group CFOs success in leading on the acquisition of Opus Energy, which was well integrated, the acquisition of LaSalle Bioenergy, which increased our pellet capacity by 50% and is now successfully commissioning, the successful completion of the Group renancing inMay and a new dividend policy which was announced in June.
He has also been instrumental in the overhaul of IT across the Group: Chief Executive of Drax Powers strong leadership of the Drax generating plant, including good interaction with Government leading to the support for the fourth biomass unit, the acquisition of four permitted UK sites to develop as gas peaking plants and the development of longer-term options for growth through coal-to-gas repowering on the Drax site.
The Committee determined that the three executive directors had performed strongly and that it was appropriate to give the same personal performance score to each.
A score of 1.25 out of 1.5 was awarded.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 101 101 BONUS EARNED FOR 2017 The resulting bonus outcomes as a percentage of base salary were: BONUS EARNED FOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE BONUS EARNED FOR OTHER EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TARGET CORPORATE PERSONAL TARGET CORPORATE PERSONAL BONUS SCORE SCORE BONUS SCORE SCORE XX XX 75% 0.84 1.25 70% 0.84 1.25 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements.
Of which Of which deferred paid in cash into shares 2017 bonus Bonus earned 65% of bonus 35% of bonus Executive director as % base salary 000 000 000 Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive, Drax Group 79% 463 301 162 Will Gardiner, Chief Financial officer 74% 294 191 103 Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power 74% 234 152 82 No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the bonus outcome.
Details of deferred bonus share awards audited information The following deferred bonus shares, which were awarded in 2014 in respect of the 2013 annual bonus, vested in 2017.
Number of Additional dividend Total number of Value of vesting Executive director shares vesting shares earned shares vesting 000 Dorothy Thompson, Chief Executive, Drax Group 21,904 1,512 23,416 80 Paul Taylor ceased to be a director on 31 December 2015 but remained an employee.
His deferred bonus shares awarded in 2014 in respect of the 2013 annual bonus vested in 2017.
The total number of shares which vested from those awards including dividend shares was 10,170 and the value of the vesting was 34,425 which was based on the share price 338.50 pence at which the shares were subject to income tax and national insurance contributions on the vesting date.
DETAIL OF BMP INCENTIVE OUTCOMES AUDITED INFORMATION The vesting outcome for matching awards granted in 2015 under the BMP, which were subject to performance conditions and due to the performance conditions not being achieved, will not vest in 2018, are provided in the tables below.
Performance for Proportion threshold vesting Performance for Actual Performance measure of award 15% maximum vesting performance Vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 51150 constituents 50% Median Upper Below 0% quartile median Performance for Proportion threshold vesting Performance for Actual Performance measure of award 15% maximum vesting performance Vesting Average Corporate Score for 2015, 2016 Average Average Scores of 0.76, 1.30 and and 2017 50% score of 1 score of 1.5 0.84 Average of 0.97 0% No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the BMP outcome.
PSP AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2017 The table below shows the conditional awards granted under the PSP to executive directors on 15 May 2017.
Face value of Award as % Number of awards 1 Executive director of salary shares granted 000 Dorothy Thompson 175% 313,956 1,030 Will Gardiner 175% 213,326 700 Andy Koss 175% 169,567 556 Note: 1 The number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three day period prior to grant, which was 327.93 pence.
In accordance with the PSP rules, dividend shares are awarded at the time and in the event that awards actually vest.
No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse 1 102 02 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The performance conditions that apply to the PSP awards granted in 2017 are set out below.
Performance Vesting at for 50% vesting Proportion Performance for threshold Corporate Performance for Performance measure of award threshold vesting performance Scorecard only maximum vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 350 constituents 50% Median 25% Upper quartile Average Corporate Score 50% Average 0% Average Average score of 0.75 score of 1 score of 1.5 Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for both conditions.
Performance for both conditions is measured over three financial years to 31 December 2019.
BMP DEFERRED AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2017 The table below shows the deferred share awards granted under the BMP to executive directors on 28 March 2017 in respect of bonus earned for performance in 2016.
Awards will vest after three years subject to continued service only.
Value of deferred bonus Number of 1 Executive director 000 shares granted Dorothy Thompson 265 79,611 Will Gardiner 168 50,486 Andy Koss 133 40,130 Note: 1 The number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the five day period prior to grant, which was 332.15 pence.
In accordance with the BMP rules, dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest Total pension entitlements for dened contribution schemes audited information Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Groups dened contribution pension plan, with either an employer contribution of 20% of base salary, or contributions to a personal pension, or cash in lieu of pension, or a combination of any of these up to a maximum contribution of 20% of base salary.
No director was a member of the dened benefit pension scheme.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS No other payments were made to past directors during 2017.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Dorothy Thompson ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017 and her service agreement terminated on that date.
For the purpose of outstanding incentive awards under the BMP and PSP, the Committee determined that Dorothy should be treated as a good leaver.
Upon leaving the Company she received the following payments which were in line with the provisions of her service agreement and the Companys Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting: In accordance with the relevant provisions of her service agreement, payment in lieu of the residual part of the period of 12 months notice commencing on 1 January 2018 and terminating on 20 September 2018, in respect of salary, pension payments and contractual benets the PILON payment.
In accordance with the terms of the service agreement, the PILON payment will be made in instalments, with an initial payment of 50% of the PILON payment paid within 30 days of the termination date, a second instalment of 25% to be paid within six months of the termination date and a third instalment of 25% to be paid within nine months of the termination date: Annual bonus in respect of 2017 was determined in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
It is payable in early 2018 and totals 463,300.
35% of this bonus awarded for 2017 will be deferred as an award under the Deferred Share Plan DSP and will vest in accordance with the rules of the DSP: Annual bonus in respect of the unworked period of notice 1 January 2018 to 20 September 2018 will, in accordance with the service agreement and the Remuneration Policy, be determined and will be payable in early 2019.
35% of any such bonus will be deferred as an award under the DSP and will vest in accordance with the rules of the DSP: Deferred bonus awards granted in 2015, 2016 and 2017 will vest in accordance with the leaver provisions of the BMP, pro-rated to the date on which employment ceased.
A total of 110,667 shares will vest, as soon as practicable, with a sufficient number being sold to meet income tax and National Insurance Contributions.
The value of these shares based on a share price of 2.706 as at 29 December 2017 is 299,465: Pro-rata vesting of performance related BMP and PSP Awards made in 2016 and 2017 to the extent that any such awards vest, subject to fullling performance conditions, in accordance with the rules of the BMP and PSP.
These awards will vest at the normal vesting date.
The PSP awards are subject to a two year post-vesting holding period in accordance with the remuneration policy and the PSP rules.
A total of 216,340 shares including dividend shares were outstanding as at 31 December 2017.
An estimated maximum value of these based on the closing share price on 29 December 2017 of 2.706 is 585,416: and Long term incentive awards will remain subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 103 103 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED INFORMATION The shareholding guidelines require executive directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards, or who receive deferred bonus shares, to retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions until the value is equal to at least 200% of salary.
As at 31 December 2017, the shareholding guidelines had not been met, as detailed in the table below, which also shows the executive directors shareholdings and share interests as at that date.
beneficial ownership of director or Deferred awards not subject to Awards subject to performance performance connected persons BMP Sharesave BMP & PSP 2 3 Name Year ending 31 December 2017 Shares Share Awards Options Share Awards Total Will Gardiner Number 57,392 55,549 14,778 566,830 694,549 1 Value at year end 155,303 150,316 39,989 1,533,842 1,879,450 Shareholding as a percentage of salary 39% Andy Koss Number 52,113 40,130 5,633 280,726 378,602 1 Value at year end 141,018 108,592 15,243 759,645 1,024,497 Shareholding as a percentage of salary 44% Dorothy Thompson Number 353,337 191,643 2,816 794,097 1,341,893 1 Value at year end 956,130 518,586 7,620 2,148,826 3,631,162 Shareholding as a percentage of salary 163% Notes: 1 Share price at 29 December 2017 was 270.6 pence per share 2 Includes, where applicable, shares held by the Trustee of the Drax Group plc Share Incentive Plan 3 The deferred share awards not subject to performance are the annual bonus deferred shares 4 For the purposes of the table above, the reference salary used for Will Gardiner was his 2017 salary as Group CFO There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors.
The table below shows the shareholdings of the non-executive directors and their connected persons and the value as at 29 December 2017, when the share price was 270.6 pence per share.
Number Value at of shares year end Tim Cobbold 1,000 2,706 Philip Cox 60,000 162,360 David Lindsell 7,500 20,295 David Nussbaum 7,500 20,295 Tony Thorne 7,500 20,295 As at the date hereof there have been no changes to the shareholdings or share interests since 31 December 2017.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS The following table shows, for each director of the Company at 26 February 2018, or those who served as a director of the Company at any time during the year ended 31 December 2017, the start date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods.
Unexpired term Notice period by Notice period at the date of the Company by the director Director Contract start date Contract term years publication months months months Tim Cobbold 27 September 2016 3 years 1 year and 7 months 1 1 Philip Cox 1 January 2018 3 years 2 years and 10 months 6 6 Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 3 years 2 years and 10 months 1 1 Andy Koss 1 January 2016 indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 David Lindsell 1 December 2017 17 months 13 months 1 1 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 years 2 years and 6 months 1 1 1 Dorothy Thompson 3 September 2013 indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Tony Thorne 29 June 2016 3 years 1 year and 4 months 1 1 Note: 1 Dorothy Thompson ceased to be a director on 31 December 2017 1 104 04 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED DRAX NINE-YEAR TSR DATA TO 31 DECEMBER 2017 The following graph shows how the value of 100 invested in both the Company and the FTSE 350 Index on 31 December 2008 has changed.
This index has been chosen as a suitable broad comparator against which the Companys shareholders may judge their relative returns given that, in recent years, the Company has been a member of the FTSE 350 Index.
The graph reflects the TSR determined according to usual market practice for the Company and the index referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2017.
300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Drax FTSE 350 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS PAY IN LAST NINE FINANCIAL YEARS Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dorothy Thompsons total single gure 000 903 1,155 1,196 1,406 3,360 1,854 1,248 1,595 1,236 Bonus % of maximum awarded 77% 100% 100% 100% 100% 73% 46% 88% 53% BMP Matching Award % of maximum vesting 40.52% 21.66% 15.43% 0% PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REMUNERATION COMPARED WITH THE WIDER EMPLOYEEPOPULATION The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group CEOs salary, benets and bonus between 2016 and 2017 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has selected all Group employees below executive director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide the most appropriate comparator.
Bonus Salary Taxable benets 000 Percentage Percentage increase increase 2016 2017 % increase Dorothy Thompson 0% 2.7% 755.7 463.3 38.7% Average for UK employees 2.7% 0.7% 6.6 4.3 % RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, namely distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure.
These were the most significant outgoings from the Company in the last financial year, other than normal operating costs.
Remuneration 2017 137.1m 1 Remuneration 2016 99.9m Capital expenditure 2017 180.6m 2 Capital expenditure 2016 96.4m Dividends 2017 50.0m 3 Dividends 2016 11.0m 0 50,000.000 100,000,000 150,000,000 200,000,000 Notes: 1 Remuneration 2017 see note 6.1 2 Capital expenditure 2017 see note 3.1 3 Dividends 2017 see note 2.9 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 105 105 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2018 The remuneration policy will be implemented following its approval by shareholders at the AGM in April 2018 as follows: The Committee will review salaries in accordance with the Policy and will take account of the increase in base pay of the collective bargaining group and other salary reviews in the Group.
CORPORATE SCORECARD The Corporate Scorecard measures and targets for 2018 have been established for the Group and for each Group business.
Details of performance against the measures will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration so far as possible, whilst maintaining commercial condentiality.
The following table sets out the categories and a description of the measures.
Target Reasons for use Group Safety TRIR The same target as previous years, focused on reducing the number of safety-related incidents, measured using the Total Recordable Incident Rate Finance & strategy Group EBITDA EBITDA is our principle financial metric, measuring the underlying performance of each business and the Group Group Net Debt We use net debt as a key indicator of cash generation and effective capital allocation Progress on delivering strategy This target focuses on project delivery, including 30% self-supply of pellets, development of new generation capacity and implementation of digital capabilities Sustainability People, reputation & responsibility By combining several KPIs into a single target we will seek to improve sustainability across all of our activities and businesses DRAX BIOMASS Fines at disport The same target as previous years, our focus remains on improving the quality of biomass pellets measured as the percentage of fines in each shipment Cost of production Reducing the cost of production will make a positive contribution to the Groups financial performance, in 2018 and beyond DRAX POWER Biomass unit technical availability Revenues from biomass units are key drivers of profitability: by maximising availability we maximise profit opportunities Value from flexibility This targets the financial value we expect from providing flexible support services to the UK electricity grid B2B Energy Supply Cost to serve customers By reducing cost to serve we will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our energy supply operations Quality of business This target will focus on the gross margin derived from each unit of power we sell to customers Growth in market share By growing market share, whilst controlling costs and improving margins, we expect to increase profit from the Energy Supply business PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN The performance measures to be used in 2018 PSP awards are as described on page 90 in the remuneration policy report.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES Non-executive directors fees will be reviewed by the Chairman and executive directors in July 2018.
1 106 06 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SHAREHOLDER VOTING The table below shows the voting outcome for the remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on 13 April2017.
For Against Total Votes withheld Name Shares % Shares % Shares % Shares Approval of the directors remunerationpolicy  Approval of the annual report onremuneration 234,597,094 66.35 118,991,937 33.65 353,589,031 100 6,205,774 The remuneration policy and the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report were approved by the majority of shareholders but there was a significant minority of shares voted against, particularly against the Remuneration Report.
We had consulted on the new policy with the major holders of the issued share capital, representing a significant majority of the shares.
Most of these investors were supportive, but not all.
Feedback from investors, particularly those who did not support either or both the report and the policy, has been considered by the Remuneration Committee.
Further discussion will take place with investors as part of an ongoing programme.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITY AND KEY DECISIONS IN 2017 Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2017 are shown in the table below: January Considered the report of shareholder consultation in respect of the 2017 Remuneration Policy.
Approved the remuneration package for the new Director of Corporate Affairs.
Considered the 2016 balanced Corporate Scorecard and decided not to exercise its discretion to adjust the score.
February Adopted the 2016 balanced Corporate Scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of 2016 remuneration.
Approved executive director and senior staff personal scores and annual bonus awards for 2016.
Approved the Group Chief Executives personal score and annual bonus award for 2016.
Approved the vesting of the 2014 BMP awards, which was reported in the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Considered and approved the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Approved the operation of the all-employee Sharesave Share Plan in 2017.
Approved the Deferred Share Plan and Performance Share Plan.
March Approved the Long Term Incentive awards for 2017 for senior management below Board.
Noted the bonus awards to senior management below Executive Committee member level Approved a proposal for members of the Executive Committee and senior staff salary review.
June Agreed revised remuneration for Jonathan Kini.
September Approved the remuneration terms for the outgoing Group CEO.
Approved the remuneration package for the incoming Group CEO.
November Noted the performance status of outstanding share plans and approved in principle the operation of share plans in 2017.
Considered and approved the implementation of the new HR strategy.
Reviewed the fees paid to  LLP PwC as, the Committees remuneration adviser, together with fees paid by the Group to PwC for other matters, and reviewed PwCs independence.
In 2017, the members of the Remuneration Committee were Tony Thorne, Chairman of the Committee: Tim Cobbold: Philip Cox: David Lindsell: and David Nussbaum from 1 August 2017, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Group Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee.
The Group CEO was invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when her own remuneration was discussed.
The Committee met on six occasions during the year and its members attendance record is set out on page 81, along with details of otherattendees.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 107 107 ADVISER TO THE COMMITTEE The adviser to the Committee for the year was PwC.
PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee in October 2010, following acompetitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of executive and non-executive directors.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
In addition, the Committee has satisfied itself that the advice it receives is objective and independent as PwC has confirmed there are no conflicts of interest.
From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specic matters.
The Committee will continue to monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwCs independence as an adviser to the Committee.
PwC was paid 233,000 during 2017 in respect of advice given to the Committee.
The Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive regarding the performance and remuneration of the other executive directors and senior staff.
During 2017, the Committee has also been advised by David McCallum, the Group Company Secretary, and Samantha Brook, Head of Corporate HR.
OTHER MATTERS Wider employee population The average pensionable pay of an executive director is 12.8 times the average of pensionable pay for all UK employees within the Group.
Past directors Paul Taylor ceased to be a director on 31 December 2015, but he continued in employment on a part-time basis until 31 December 2017 and received a salary in respect of this role.
Remuneration received from external appointments Remuneration received by executive directors for service as a non-executive director elsewhere is retained by the director.
Detailed below is the remuneration they received.
Fees received Name External organisation 2016 2017 Dorothy Thompson Court of the Bank of England 15,000 15,000 Dorothy Thompson Eaton Corporation plc appointed 29 July 2016 58,000 122,873 This report was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee on 26 February 2018.
TONY THORNE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
