Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Directors Remuneration Policy Executives are also encouraged to build up Compliance Statement Key principles of Admiral significant shareholdings in the Group to remuneration arrangements This Remuneration Report has been prepared maximise shareholder alignment according to the requirements of the The Group is committed to the primary Long-term perspective a significant Companies Act 2006 the Act, Regulation objective of maximising shareholder value part of senior executives remuneration is 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumover time in a way that also promotes based on the achievement of stretching Sized Companies and Groups Accounts effective risk management and excellent performance targets that support and Reports Amendment Regulations customer outcome and ensuring that there the delivery of the Groups strategy 2013 and other relevant requirements is a strong link between performance and and shareholder value.
The extended of the FCA Listing Rules.
This is reflected in the Groups performance and vesting horizons Board has applied the principles of good stated Remuneration Policy of paying promote a long-term perspective that is corporate governance set out in the UK competitive, performance-linked and appropriate to the insurance sector Corporate Governance Code the Code and shareholder-aligned total remuneration has considered the guidelines issued by its packages comprising basic salaries coupled Effective risk management incentives leading shareholders and bodies such as with participation in performance-based are designed to ensure they do not ISS, the Investment Association, and the share schemes to generate competitive total encourage excessive risk-taking.
They Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association.
reward packages for superior performance.
are aligned with the delivery of positive Unless otherwise stated, information The Board is satisfied that the adoption of customer outcomes and reinforce the contained within this Remuneration Report this Policy continues to meet the objectives Groups risk policy is unaudited.
of attracting and retaining executives of the Open and honest culture the Group has highest quality across the Group.
a strong culture of focussing on collective The Remuneration Committee is seeking success, whilst still recognising individual shareholder approval for an updated The Committee reviews the framework and contribution to the Groups performance, Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM.
remuneration packages of the Executive and this is reflected in our remuneration The key changes to the previous Policy are Directors and the most senior managers structure across the business as follows: and recognises the need to ensure that Transparency to stakeholders the the Remuneration Policy is firmly linked Annual award of 5,000 salary shares to the remuneration structure is designed to to the Groups strategy, including its risk CFO, vesting after three years subject to be simple and easy to understand, and management approach.
In setting the continued employment, with additional all aspects are clear to employees and Policy and making remuneration decisions, two-year holding period openly communicated to employees, the Committee takes into account pay and Extension of the overall DFSS time horizon shareholders, and regulators.
conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The main with the introduction of a mandatory principles underlying the Remuneration two-year holding period on vested awards, Policy are: effective from awards made in 2018 Competitive total package the Group Remuneration Committee discretion to aims to deliver total remuneration adjust formulaic DFSS outcome to ensure packages that are market-competitive, alignment between pay and performance taking into account the role, job size, Adjustment to the DFSS bonus to be based responsibility, and the individuals on risk performance performance and effectiveness.
Prevailing Increase to the shareholding guideline market and economic conditions and from 200% to 300% of base salary developments in governance are also considered, as are general salary levels No change to pension provision of 6% throughout the organisation of salary subject to an internal cap, but increase to cap from 9,000 to 15,000 Significantly share-based our base p. a. and choice between pension salaries are targeted towards the lower contribution and cash in lieu.
end of market, but are combined with meaningful annual share awards that Subject to shareholder approval, the new vest on long-term performance to ensure Remuneration Policy will formally come into strong alignment with shareholders and effect from the date of the 2018 AGM.
the long-term interests of the Group.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy table This table describes the key components of the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics Base Salary To attract and retain talent Salaries are reviewed annually or following a significant Any salary increases are applied in line with the by setting base salaries at change in responsibilities.
levels appropriate for the Salary levels increases take account of: In respect of existing Executive Directors, it business.
is anticipated that increases in cash salary or Scope and responsibility of the position the number of salary shares will normally be in Individual performance and effectiveness, and experience line with the increase for the general employee of the individual in the role population over the term of this Policy.
More significant increases may be awarded in certain Average increase awarded across the Group.
circumstances including, but not limited to: The CFO receives an annual award of salary shares in addition where there has been a significant increase to his cash salary.
The salary share award vests after three in role size or complexity, to apply salary years subject to continued employment, and an additional progression for a newly appointed Executive two-year holding period applies, during which time shares Director, or where the Executive Directors may not be sold, save to meet income tax, NI or other salary has fallen significantly behind market.
Malus and clawback provisions apply Where increases are awarded in excess of during the vesting and holding periods.
The salary share that for the general employee population, the award is not included in base salary when calculating the CFOs Committee will provide the rationale in the pension benefit.
relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension To provide retirement The Group operates a Personal Pension Plan, In the UK, the Group matches employee benefits.
contributions up to a maximum of 6% of base salary subject to an overall maximum employer This is available to all employees following contribution of 15,000, or provides the completion of their probationary period.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Other Benefits To provide competitive Includes but not limited to : Benefits may vary by role.
Death in service scheme None of the existing Executive Directors received total taxable benefits exceeding 5% Private medical cover of base salary during the most recent financial year, and it is not anticipated that the cost of Permanent health insurance benefits provided will exceed this level over the Relocation, at the Committees discretion term of this Policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation, or in circumstances driven by factors outside the Companys control e. g. material increases in healthcare insurance premiums.
66 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS To motivate and reward Executive Directors may be granted awards annually at the Maximum opportunity: 2,000,000.
For awards longer term performance, aid discretion of the Committee.
David Stevens has declined to above 1,000,000 a maximum of 600% of base long-term retention of key participate given his significant shareholding.
salary excluding any salary shares applies.
executive talent, use capital Threshold performance will result in vesting of Awards may be in the form of nil or nominal priced options or efficiently, grow profits up to 25% of the maximum award.
Awards vest after a minimum of three years sustainably and further subject to Group performance and continued employment.
Vesting of DFSS awards is subject to the Groups strengthen the alignment of performance over a three-year performance the interests of shareholders For DFSS awards made in 2018 and subsequent years, a twoperiod.
The performance measures may include and staff.
year holding period applies to vested awards, during which EPS, ROE and relative TSR or other measures time Executive Directors may not sell the vested awards selected by the Committee, as appropriate.
except to cover tax liabilities.
Measures will typically be weighted equally Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, i. e. unless the Committee determines otherwise forfeiture or reduction of unvested awards and recovery of to reflect strategic priorities.
Details of the vested awards in exceptional circumstances such as material measures, weightings and performance misstatement or gross misconduct.
targets used for specific DFSS grants are included in the relevant years Annual Report on The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the Remuneration.
formulaic vesting outcome to ensure the final outcome is a fair and true reflection of underlying business performance.
DFSS Bonus To further align incentive To incentivise shareholder value creation, in particular in Maximum opportunity: sum equal to the structures with shareholder the form of dividends, management participate in a bonus dividends payable during the year on interests through the scheme which directly links their awards to dividends paid awarded but unvested DFSS shares, subject delivery of dividend to shareholders.
Bonus is calculated to be equivalent to also to a possible 20% enhancement based equivalent bonuses.
dividends that would have been payable during the year on all on the Committees assessment of the risk outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not vested, including metrics scorecard.
No bonus is payable unless dividends are The DFSS bonus is subject to a 20% adjustment based on payable on Admiral shares.
performance against a set of risk metrics.
The metrics will be set each year for all significant areas of the business with specified targets to determine the amount of any DFSS bonus adjustment.
It is anticipated that many of these measures will be directly related to customer outcomes.
Whilst the bonus may be adjusted upwards or downwards by up to 20% in any given year, it is not anticipated that the adjustment will increase the CFOs remuneration on average over the long term.
The DFSS bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions, i. e. forfeiture or reduction of unvested awards and recovery of vested awards in exceptional circumstances such as material misstatement or gross misconduct.
Approved Free Share Incentive Plan SIP To encourage share All UK employees participate in the SIP except David Stevens, The SIP is an all-employee scheme and ownership across all who has declined to participate.
Grants are made twice a year Executive Directors participate on the same employees using HMRC based on the results of each half year and vest after three terms as other employees.
years subject to continued employment.
of shares is therefore not subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
Maximum opportunity is in line with HMRC limits.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy table continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics Shareholding Requirement To align interests of Guideline to be met within five years or the later of the 300% of base salary base salary excludes any Executive Directors with introduction of the guidelines and an Executive Directors salary shares.
The Committee is satisfied that the above Remuneration Policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risktaking.
The Committee retains discretion to make changes required to satisfy legal or regulatory requirements and other non-significant changes to the Remuneration Policy without reverting to shareholders.
Notes to the Remuneration Policy table Payments from existing awards Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
This includes all outstanding awards under the previous 2015 Remuneration Policy, or any awards made prior to appointment to the Board.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Selection of performance measures Vesting under the DFSS is currently linked to EPS vs. LIBOR, ROE, and relative TSR.
EPS vs. LIBOR has been selected as a performance measure as the Committee feels it is a strong indicator of both long-term shareholder return and the underlying financial performance of the business.
It is transparent and visible and provides good line-of-sight to executives.
ROE has been selected as the Committee believes that a returns metric reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns for our shareholders, thereby further strengthening the alignment of incentives with Admirals strategy.
The third DFSS measure is relative TSR vs. the FTSE 350 excluding investment companies.
This has been selected to reflect value creation for Admirals shareholders as compared with the general market.
The specific performance measures and their respective weightings in respect of each DFSS award may vary to reflect the strategic priorities at the time of the award.
Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account broker forecasts, the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
The financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic plan and broker forecasts for both Admiral and its insurance peers.
The Committee believes that the performance targets set are stretching and motivational, and that maximum outcomes are available only for outstanding performance.
Remuneration policy for other employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the role size, experience required, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
In general, the Remuneration Policy which applies to other senior executives is consistent with that for Executive Directors.
Remuneration is typically linked to Company and individual performance in a way that reinforces shareholder value creation.
Approximately 2,300 employees from across the Group, as well as the CFO, participate in the DFSS.
The Committee recommends for approval by the Board DFFS awards for those Executives within its remit and on an aggregate basis for all other participants in the DFSS.
For the CFO, all DFSS share awards are subject to performance conditions.
For other senior managers and employees at lower organisational levels, a proportion of awards ranging from 50% to two-thirds is subject to performance, and the remainder has no performance conditions attached other than the requirement that the recipient remains an employee of the Group at the date of vesting.
Award sizes vary by organisational level and an assessment of individual performance and non-financial business unit performance.
All holders of DFSS awards receive the DFSS bonus.
Overseas employees receive an equivalent award to the UK SIP awards under the DFSS.
These awards have no performance measures attached.
All employees are eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms.
Remuneration arrangements for David Stevens Founding Director David Stevens is a founding Director, and he and the Committee continue to hold the view that his significant shareholding provides sufficient alignment of his interest in the performance of the Group with the interests of other shareholders.
In light of this, David Stevens remuneration package consists only of a cash salary, benefits such as private medical cover, permanent health insurance and death in service cover, and matching pension contributions from the Company under the Groups Personal Pension Plan.
David Stevens has not participated, nor is it intended that he participates, in any Group share schemes.
68 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Service contracts and leaver change of control provisions The Companys Policy is to limit termination payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Under normal circumstances, Executive Directors are entitled to receive termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and compensation for loss of benefits.
The Company has the ability to pay such sums in instalments, requiring the Executive Director to mitigate loss over the relevant period.
The notice period for all Executive Directors is one year.
Executive Director Date of appointment David Stevens 22 October 1999 Geraint Jones 13 August 2014 There is no provision in the Executive Directors contracts for compensation to be payable on early termination of their contract over and above the notice period element.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
When considering termination payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the DFSS and DFSS bonus scheme are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion: Plan Scenario Treatment of awards Timing of vesting DFSS Resignation Awards lapse.
n a Death, injury or disability, Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time with Normal vesting date.
redundancy, retirement or any reference to the proportion of the vesting period other reasons the Committee may remaining at termination, and performance, unless determine the Committee determines otherwise.
Change of control Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time with Immediately.
reference to the proportion of the vesting period remaining at change of control, and extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met at the point of change of control, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
DFSS bonus Resignation n a n a Death, injury or disability, Not payable after the event.
n a redundancy, retirement or any other reasons the Committee may determine Change of control Not payable after the event.
n a Salary shares Resignation Awards lapse n a. CFO only Death, injury or disability, Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time with Normal vesting date, with redundancy, retirement or any reference to the proportion of the vesting period Committee discretion to other reasons the Committee may remaining at termination, and performance, unless accelerate.
determine the Committee determines otherwise Change of control Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time with Immediately.
reference to the proportion of the vesting period remaining at change of control, at the point of change of control, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts and leaver change of control provisions continued For all leavers with the exception of termination for cause.
In respect of vested DFSS and vested salary share awards that are still subject to a holding period, awards will normally be released in full at the end of the holding period, though the Committee has discretion to determine otherwise, taking into account the circumstances at the time.
Non-Executive Directors The Company has entered into letters of appointment with its Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
Summary details of terms and notice periods are included below.
NED Term Commencement date Notice period Annette Court 3 years 21 March 2015 Three months Owen Clarke 3 years 19 August 2015 One month Colin Holmes 3 years 3 December 2016 One month Jean Park 3 years 17 January 2014 One month Justine Roberts 3 years 17 June 2016 One month Manning Rountree 3 years 16 June 2015 One month The NEDs are not eligible to participate in the DFSS or DFSS bonus scheme and do not receive any pension contributions.
Details of the Policy on NED fees are set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics To attract and retain NEDs Fees are reviewed annually.
Fee levels are set by reference to NED fees at of the highest calibre with companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Group Chairman fee is determined by the Committee experience relevant to It is anticipated that NED fee increases will after consultation with the Executive Directors.
The NED fees the Company normally be in line with the increase for the are determined by the Group Chairman together with the general employee population over the term Executive Directors.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent In the event that there is a material Director or as Chair or member of a Board Committee misalignment with the market or a change as appropriate, and may be payable as appropriate in in the complexity, responsibility or time relation to other additional responsibilities e. g. attending commitment required to fulfil a NED role, the meetings overseas.
Board has discretion to make an appropriate adjustment to the fee level.
Fees are paid in a mix of cash and Company shares for the Company Chair, and in cash for other Non-Executive Directors.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for NEDs The Board retains discretion to vary the mix or determine is capped at the limit provided for in the that fees are paid entirely in cash or Company shares.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of pay under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
As described above, Admirals DFSS bonus is directly aligned with dividends received by our shareholders.
Whilst the final bonus outcome may be adjusted upwards or downwards for risk by up to 20% in any given year, it is anticipated that the average adjustment over the long term will be close to 0%.
The figures shown in the chart below for the CFOs DFSS bonus include the value of the actual DFSS bonus paid in 2017 as an illustration of the value he might receive.
Under all scenarios, potential reward opportunities are based on the proposed Remuneration Policy and expected awards for 2018, applied to salaries as at 1 January 2018.
70 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 1,400 65% Fixed Rem DFSS bonus 1,200 DFSS 1,000 800 27% 600 30% 22% 11% 400 100% 100% 100% 70% 51% 24% 200 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum CFO: Geraint Jones CEO: David Stevens The value of DFSS awards is calculated based on the average share price in the last three months of 2017 18.88 and the number of DFSS shares awarded in 2017 50,000 shares and salary shares expected to be awarded in 2018 5,000 shares, subject to shareholder approval.
The charts above exclude the effect of any Company share price movement.
For this reason, were the CFOs DFSS shares to vest in full, his actual total remuneration may exceed the value shown in the chart above.
Component Minimum On-target Maximum Base salary Annual cash salary and salary shares CFO only for 2018 Pension 15,000 annual contribution for CFO and CEO Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided DFSS 0% vesting 20% average vesting 100% vesting DFSS bonus Based on DFSS bonus paid in 2017 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Corporate Governance: Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Remuneration Policy continued Approach to Remuneration relating to new Executive Director appointments External appointments In the case of appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration as set out in the Policy Table.
The Committees policy is to set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy at the time of the appointment.
In determining the appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will consider all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Where an individual is appointed on an initial base salary that is below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of time, subject to the individuals performance and development in the role.
This may result in above-average salary increases during this period.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new Executive Director appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met to ensure that the value of the buy-out award is no greater than the fair value of the awards it replaces.
The Committee may also avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if appropriate in respect of buy-out incentive arrangements.
Internal appointments Remuneration for new Executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the Policy for external appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Incentive opportunities for below-Board employees are typically no higher than for Executive Directors, but measures may vary if necessary.
Other Directorships Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments as Non-Executive Directors of companies with prior approval of the Group Chairman.
Approval will be given only where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities, and where the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Considerations of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for Executive Directors.
Whilst the Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, it consults with and receives updates on employee pay arrangements from the Head of People Services and takes this into consideration when reviewing executive remuneration.
Considerations of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on Remuneration Policy and will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the remuneration structure for our Executive Directors remains appropriate.
Considerations of regulatory requirements The Committee regularly reviews the Remuneration Policy and structure in the context of Solvency II remuneration guidance.
The Chief Risk Officer periodically attends Committee meetings as part of this process and provides support to the Committee in understanding any riskrelated implications of remuneration decisions.
Whilst the Remuneration Policy includes several features which help ensure compliance with current regulatory guidance, the Committee reserves the discretion to adjust the Remuneration Policy, and its execution, to take into account any developments in such regulatory guidance.
72 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report on Remuneration This section of the report provides details of how Admirals 2015 Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2017 and how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the proposed Remuneration Policy in 2018.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2017 The Board sets the Groups Remuneration Policy and, through the authority delegated to it by the Board, the Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure and implementation of the Remuneration Policy across the Group with consideration to the prevailing economic climate within the economies in which the Group operates.
Its remit includes recommending the remuneration of the Group Board Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary: reviewing the remuneration of senior management: and reviewing the composition of and awards made under the performance-related incentive schemes.
At the end of 2017 the Committee consisted of Owen Clarke, Jean Park, Justine Roberts and Annette Court.
Owen Clarke joined the Remuneration Committee with effect from 28 April 2016 and was proposed as the Chairman of the Committee on 26 April 2017.
Owen Clarke is currently the Acting Chairman of the Committee as his appointment remains subject to regulatory approval.
Justine Roberts joined the Committee with effect from 26 April 2017.
Annette Court was the Chair of the Committee until the date of the 2017 AGM 26 April 2017 when she was appointed as Non-Executive Chair of Admiral and remains a member of the Committee pending the conclusion of Owen Clarkes regulatory application process.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
The Group Chairman, CEO, CFO and Chief Risk Officer are invited to meetings where the Committee considers it appropriate to obtain their advice on Group strategy and performance and Senior Executive pay strategy.
The members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interests other than shareholdings, or any conflicts, that relate to the business of the Committee.
The Committee members do not have any day-to-day involvement in the running of the Group.
Advisor to the Committee During the year, in order to enable the Committee to reach informed decisions on Executive remuneration, advice on market data and trends was obtained from independent consultants, Mercer Kepler.
Mercer Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman, and is a signatory to and abides by the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Other than advice on remuneration, no other services were provided by Mercer Kepler or any other part of the MMC group of companies to the Company.
The fees paid to Mercer Kepler in respect of work carried out in 2017 based on time and materials totalled 48,430, excluding expenses and VAT.
The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Mercer Kepler remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Mercer Kepler is independent.
The Company Secretary also circulates market survey results as appropriate.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2017 AGM The table below shows the result of the advisory vote on the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM.
For Against Total votes cast Abstentions Total number of votes 173,833,258 9,309,064 183,142,322 10,552 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration % of votes cast 94.9% 5.1% Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Corporate Governance: Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Total single figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year.
David Stevens does not participate in any incentive plan given his significant shareholdings.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1.
Base salary fee: amount earned for the year.
Benefits: the taxable value of annual benefits received in the year.
Pension: the value of the Companys contribution during the year.
SIP: the face value at grant.
DFSS: the value at vesting of shares vesting on performance over the three-year periods ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
For the 2017 figures, given that vesting occurs after the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report is finalised, the figures are based on the average share price in the last three months of 2017 18.88.
The 2016 figures have been trued up based on the actual share price on vest 20.24.
DFSS bonus: the bonus equivalent to dividends that were paid during the year on all outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not yet vested.
Total single figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each NED for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year.
Alastair Lyons retired from the Board with effect from 26 April 2017.
Annette Court was appointed Chairman of the Board with effect from 26 April 2017.
Owen Clarke was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 26 April 2017 4.
Penny James retired from the Board with effect from 8 September 2017 5.
Jean Parks fees for 2017 include additional fees in relation to the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2017 relating to her position as Chair of the Group Risk Committee and in recognition of the increased time commitment required of her as a consequence of Solvency II regulations and the Internal Model Application Process.
Justine Roberts was appointed to the Board on 17 June 2016.
74 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Incentive outcomes for financial year to 31 December 2017 audited DFSS awards vesting on performance to 31 December 2017 On 29 September 2015, Geraint Jones was granted an award under the DFSS of 50,000 shares with a value at the date of award of 743,500 based on a grant date share price of 14.87, equivalent to 372% of salary.
Vesting of the award was based 100% on the achievement of performance conditions, being EPS growth vs. LIBOR, TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding investment companies, and ROE, weighted equally and all measured over the three-year period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017.
Over this period, the returns to our shareholders were strong, with TSR in the top quartile of FTSE350 companies and with ROE of over 47%.
The combination of these shareholder returns and EPS growth comfortably in excess of the threshold performance set for these awards contributed to a vesting level of 74.3%.
The table below details the Companys performance against targets and the resulting vesting outcome.
Performance range Vesting outcome Performance measure Threshold Maximum Vesting schedule Actual outturn % of maximum EPS growth vs. LIBOR Growth in line Growth of 36 points 10% for achieving threshold 12.4% points.
in 41.0% weighted 33% with LIBOR equivalent to 10% with straight line relationship to excess of LIBOR p. a. in excess 100% for maximum performance of LIBOR TSR vs. FTSE 350 Median Upper quartile 25% for median, with straight 77th percentile 100% excluding investment line relationship to 100% for companies 33% upper quartile Return on Equity 25% 55% 25% for achieving threshold 47.7% 81.9% ROE 33% with straight line relationship to 100% for maximum performance Total vesting 74.3% Based on performance, the total amount that will vest to Geraint Jones in September 2018 will therefore be 74.3% of his award i. e. 37,150 shares, subject to his continued employment on the vesting date.
Vested DFSS awards are subject to clawback provisions in exceptional circumstances, such as material misstatement or gross misconduct.
DFSS bonus in respect of 2017 In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Group paid a bonus to all holders of DFSS shares in 2017, which was equivalent to the dividend payable on all outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not yet vested.
The Committee continues to believe that having a bonus equivalent to the dividend flow received by investors further aligns the incentive structure with shareholders.
David Stevens did not receive a DFSS bonus as he does not participate in the DFSS.
DFSS bonus payments are subject to clawback provisions in exceptional circumstances, such as material misstatement or gross misconduct.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Corporate Governance: Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Scheme Interests Granted in 2017 audited DFSS In September 2017, Geraint Jones was granted an award under the DFSS of 50,000 shares with a value at the date of award of 905,000 based on share price of 18.10, equivalent to 369% of salary.
The three-year period over which performance will be measured is 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019.
The award is eligible to vest in its entirety on the third anniversary of the date of grant i. e. September 2020, subject to performance and to continued employment.
David Stevens again declined to be included given his significant shareholding.
The award will vest dependent on three-year EPS growth vs. LIBOR, TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding investment companies, and ROE, weighted equally.
The performance conditions are summarised in the table below.
Performance range Performance measure Threshold Maximum Vesting EPS growth vs. LIBOR Growth in line with Growth of 36 points 10% for achieving threshold with straight line LIBOR equivalent to 10% p. a. relationship to 100% for maximum performance in excess of LIBOR TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding Median Upper quartile 25% for median, with straight line relationship investment companies to 100% for upper quartile Return on Equity ROE 25% 55% 25% for achieving threshold with straight line relationship to 100% for maximum performance DFSS awards are subject to clawback and malus provisions, i. e. forfeiture or reduction of unvested awards and recovery of vested awards in exceptional circumstances such as material misstatement or gross misconduct.
SIP In March and August 2017, Geraint Jones was granted awards under the SIP of 95 shares in March 2017, with a face value of 1,902, and 85 shares in September 2017, with a face value of 1,792.
The shares will vest on 11 March 2019 and 2 September 2019 respectively subject to continued employment only.
Exit payments audited No exit payments were made to an Executive Director during the year.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to a past Director during the year.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2018 Executive Directors Salary, pension and benefits Salaries for the Executive Directors in 2018 will be determined in line with the proposed Remuneration Policy, subject to shareholder approval.
The Committee approved the following base salaries for the Executive Directors for 2018: Director Latest salary 2017 salary % change Effective date 1 Geraint Jones 340,000 245,000 38.8% 1 January 2018 David Stevens 396,000 388,236 2% 1 September 2017 1.
Comprising 245,000 in cash and circa 95,000 in shares, subject to shareholder approval.
76 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information For 2018, the CFOs cash salary will remain unchanged at 245,000 and an award of 5,000 salary shares is proposed, bringing total salary to circa 340,000.
The salary share award will vest after three years subject to continued employment.
An additional two-year holding period will apply, during which time shares may not be sold, save to meet income tax, NI or other regulatory obligations.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply during the vesting and holding periods.
The salary share award is not included in base salary when calculating the CFOs pension benefit.
The Committee believes that structuring the CFOs salary increase as an award of shares, rather than cash, is better aligned with shareholders, is consistent with our philosophy of low cash awards balanced by the award of shares, and more effectively supports the CFOs retention.
The proposed change will bring the CFOs package closer to market though it will remain in the bottom quartile.
It also reflects a move towards improving internal consistency between the CFOs remuneration structure and that of the broader Admiral executive team below Board, for whom a proportion of their share awards are subject to continued employment but not subject to the DFSS vesting criteria.
Geraint Jones will continue to participate in the Group Personal Pension Plan, where employee contributions are matched up to a maximum 6% of base salary with internal cap on the maximum employer contribution.
Effective from 2018 and subject to shareholder approval, whilst pension provision will remain 6% of base salary, the cap will be increased from 9,000 to 15,000 p. a. and the Company will offer individuals a choice between pension contributions and cash in lieu.
David Stevens will also continue to participate in the plan, on the same basis as Geraint.
Both Executive Directors will continue to receive benefits in line with the Policy.
DFSS As in prior years, the Committee intends to make an award under the DFSS to Geraint Jones in September 2018.
In advance of each DFSS cycle, the Committee reviews the appropriateness of the performance measures and corresponding targets.
The Committee will determine the award size and performance conditions to be attached to the 2018 DFSS award closer to the award date expected to be in September 2018, and will disclose them in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration.
DFSS bonus As in prior years, Geraint Jones will be eligible to receive a DFSS bonus in 2018.
The bonus is calculated to be equivalent to dividends that would have been payable during the year on all outstanding DFSS shares and any salary shares awarded but not vested.
Effective from 2018, the DFSS bonus will include a 20% adjustment based on performance against a set of risk metrics.
The details of the risk metric and any adjustment applied will be provided in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Corporate Governance: Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2018 continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees for the Board Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors were last reviewed in January 2018, and increases effective from 1 January 2018 are as follows: 2018 fee p. a.
1 2 Chairman 307,500 300,000 NED base fee 60,500 57,750 Additional fee for chairing: Audit Committee 21,000 21,000 3 Group Risk Committee 41,000 41,000 Remuneration Committee 15,000 10,500 Nomination Committee 5,250 5,250 Additional fee for membership of: Audit Committee 12,600 12,600 Group Risk Committee 12,600 12,600 Additional fee for being Senior Independent Director 11,025 10,500 1.
The 2018 fee for the Board Chairman increased by 2.5% from 300,000 to 307,500 and comprises a cash fee of 215,250 and a share fee of 92,250 with which the Chairman is required under a Share Agreement entered into with the Group to use the net proceeds in two equal instalments to purchase Group shares after the Groups Full Year Results and Half Year Results are announced each year.
Annette Court was appointed as Board Chairman on 26 April 2017 on an annual fee of 300,000.
The annual fee payable to the previous Chairman, Alastair Lyons, was 244,577.
The fee payable to Jean Park, Chair of the Group Risk Committee, includes an additional fee of 20,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2017 until 31 December 2018 in recognition of the increased time commitment required of her as a consequence of the Solvency II regulations and Internal Model Application Process.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from 2016 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees.
The analysis is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2016 and 2017 populations.
As the CEO does not participate in the DFSS bonus scheme, to provide a meaningful comparison we have also included data for the CFO who receives DFSS awards.
Based on the sum of remuneration paid to Henry Engelhardt up to and including 13 May 2016 and to David Stevens from 13 May 2016.
DFSS bonus change represents the change in dividends paid, which is the driver of the level of bonus payable to holders of unvested DFSS shares.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the percentage change in dividends and total employee remuneration spend from the financial year ended 31 December 2016 to the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
2017 2016 % m m change Distribution to shareholders 320 318 1% Employee remuneration 324 280 15% The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 58 pence per share bringing the total dividend for 2017 to 114.0 pence per share 2016: 114.4 pence per share.
78 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Pay for performance The following graph sets out a comparison of TSR for Admiral Group plc shares with that of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 350 indices, of which the Company is a constituent, over the nine-year period to 31 December 2017.
The Directors consider these to be the most appropriate indices against which the Company should be compared.
TSR is defined as the percentage change over the period, assuming reinvestment of income.
9 Year TSR Performance: Admiral vs. FTSE 100 and FTSE 350 indices Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the nine years to 31 December 2017.
Henry Engelhard stepped down from the Board on 13 May 2016.
His 2016 remuneration includes salary and benefits in respect of his service as CEO.
David Stevens was appointed as the CEO on 13 May 2016.
His 2016 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits in respect of his service as CEO.
Kevin Chidwick left the Board on 13 August 2014 to focus on his new role as CEO of Elephant Auto.
His 2014 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits in respect of his service as CFO, his full year DFSS and his full year DFSS bonus.
Geraint Jones was appointed to the Board as CFO on 13 August 2014.
These figures include reimbursement of 177,104 and 165,000 in 2014 and 2013, respectively, for expenses incurred in respect of the previous CFOs relocation.
This figure has been trued up since the 2016 report for the value of the 2014 DFSS based on the actual share price on vest 20.24.
74.3% of Geraint Jones 2015 DFSS award will vest in September 2018 subject to his continued employment on the vesting date.
There are no annual bonus outcomes to report in the table as the Admiral DFSS bonus is not structured as a traditional annual bonus scheme and consequently a vesting outcome as a percentage of max is meaningless.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Corporate Governance: Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Dilution The Company currently uses newly issued shares to fund the DFSS and SIP.
The Company has controls in place to ensure that shares awarded under the incentive schemes operated by the Company within any rolling ten-year period do not exceed 10% of the number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in issue at the time of each award.
As at the end of 2017, the ten-year rolling dilution level was 9.45% on a gross basis and 8.51% on a net basis, after taking account of future attrition and performance vesting in the DFSS.
The Company would consider using a mixture of newly issued shares and market purchase shares to fund the DFSS in the future.
Interests held by Directors audited The Company has adopted Executive Director shareholding guidelines whereby all Executive Directors are required to acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in the Company equal to at least 300% of base salary, excluding salary shares where applicable, which can be built up over a period of five years from the later of the introduction of the guidelines and the individuals date of appointment.
The guideline was previously set at 200% of base salary, but was increased to 300% from 2018 for additional shareholder alignment.
All Executive Directors currently hold shares in excess of the guideline.
As at 31 December 2017, the Directors held the following interests: Shares held Subject to continued Subject to Shareholding Current Beneficially employment performance requirement shareholding Requirement Director owned outright only conditions % of salary % of salary met?
Total includes SIP shares both matured and awarded.
Total reflects shares from the 2015 DFSS award performance test has been applied, and award is due to vest in September 2018.
There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings since 31 December 2017.
None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
The vesting percentage for performance related awards made in 2014 was 0%.
The award made to Geraint Jones in April 2014 was 50% performance related and 50% non-performance related and therefore the blended vesting percentage was 50%.
This resulted in the lapsing of 10,000 shares.
The value at maturity relates only to shares vested.
The award made to Geraint Jones in September 2014 was 100% performance related vesting percentage was 0%.
This resulted in the lapsing of 35,000 shares.
The closing price of Admiral shares on 31 December 2017 was 20.02 per share.
By order of the Board, Owen Clarke Acting Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2018 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
