Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Remuneration Committee has reaffirmed that our long-term focused Remuneration Policy remains appropriate and is unchanged from that approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
In applying it in 2017, we have overseen the delivery of a robust 2017 Highlights link between pay and performance.
Directors Remuneration Policy approved with over 98% shareholder support at the AGM vote Judy Vezmar in May 2017 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Adjusted EBITA growth of 21% Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Revenue growth from continuing operations of Remuneration Committee 25% on a reported basis 6% on an Organic basis Dear Shareholder, Good link between performance and remuneration The Directors Remuneration Policy we proposed to Bonuses earned at 47.5% of the maximum based shareholders at the AGM in May 2017 received over 98% on Adjusted EBITA and revenue shareholder support, as did the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In advance of applying this policy in 2018, the Committee re-confirmed In this section that the current pay model remained appropriate for a Company focused on delivering sustained long-term growth.
This was on the Annual Statement from the Chairman of the basis that the current policy is heavily weighted towards long-term Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board performance through our long-term incentive plan and the requirement Annual Report on Remuneration to defer half of bonus into shares, with our pay model also supported through the significant shareholders of the Executive Directors.
We Directors Remuneration Policy also considered during the year how well our application of policy links to strategy and whether the link to strategy would be strengthened by the use of non-financial performance conditions in the annual incentive plan, and whether the application of our policy has achieved alignment Confirmation of independence between management and shareholders.
We undertook this review in the context of the development of the debate about the future The UK Corporate Governance Code direction of executive remuneration in the UK, as well as in the context recommends that the Remuneration Committee of the remuneration policy for the Groups wider employee base.
comprises at least three independent NonIn light of the relationship between pay and performance we achieved Executive Directors, and is chaired by one of in 2017, we concluded that our current approach to applying the these Directors Directors Remuneration Policy continues to be effective and we are The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Judy not proposing any changes to the application of policy for 2018.
Vezmar, and the other members are Gillian Kent Performance and Reward in 2017 and Paul Harrison, all of whom are independent Ascential delivered good results during 2017, with revenue from Non-Executive Directors continuing operations of 375.8m 2016: 299.6m, growth of 25% on a reported basis, or 6.4% on an Organic Basis.
More details on the Groups performance during the year can be found on pages 12 to 18.
50 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Annual bonus targets for Executive Directors are linked to revenue and Key activities of the Committee Adjusted EBITA, which are both considered to be key performance The Committees key activities during the 2017 financial year were: measures of successful implementation of the Groups strategy.
The bonus targets set for the Executive Directors were stretching, with engaging as appropriate with shareholders and their advisory on-target bonus of 62.5% of base salary 50% of maximum payable bodies: for achieving revenue of 379.2m and Adjusted EBITA of 109.0m.
reviewing the remuneration policy to ensure continued Reflecting the challenging nature of the bonus targets set, effectiveness: notwithstanding the growth in revenue and Adjusted EBITA noted reviewing base salaries for Executive Directors and senior above, the Executive Directors were both awarded an annual bonus management: in relation to 2017 performance just below the target level of agreeing remuneration packages and arrangements for senior performance at 59.4% of base salary.
More details on the targets employees: set and performance achieved can be found on page 53. approving the bonus outturn for Executive Directors and senior management: The Committee chose not to include non-financial targets for the setting bonus targets for Executive Directors and approving them Executive Directors annual bonus plan for 2017.
This decision was for senior management: reviewed during the year and the Committee concluded that as all of engaged by management in relation to changes in remuneration the non-financial targets that were most appropriate to driving strategy policy for the wider employee base: contributed directly to the financial measures of revenue and profit, the approving awards under the Companys share plans: simplicity and increased transparency derived from setting purely running a formal review process of the external advisers to the financial targets should be maintained for 2018.
Committee: considering the implications of Gender Pay Gap Reporting and There were no long-term incentive awards eligible to vest based on working with the Chief People Officer to review the Companys performance to 31 December 2017.
The first long-term incentive results and enhance the Companys future performance: awards were granted by the Company in March 2016 and so are not approving the Directors Remuneration Report: and due to vest until March 2019. reviewing its own performance.
All employees in eligible countries were once again invited to participate I hope that you find the information in this report helpful and I look in the Groups Sharesave plans, which gives employees the opportunity forward to your support at the Companys AGM in May 2018. to benefit from the business success they help to create.
In celebration of the successful IPO in 2016, an award of free shares worth 1,000 Judy Vezmar each was made to around 1,600 eligible employees at that time.
We Chairman of the Remuneration Committee were pleased to repeat this award during the year for our colleagues 23 February 2018 joining Ascential following the acquisition of One Click Retail and MediaLink to help build a sense of shared purpose, and recognise and reward our new colleagues for their positive contribution to our growth and performance.
How the policy will be implemented for the 2018 financial year We have reviewed the Executive Directors base salaries, in the context of the increases that were awarded in 2017 and the wider pay conditions for employees across the Group.
We concluded that, in line with the employee population, the base salaries of the Executive Directors will be increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 April 2018.
The annual bonus plan will continue to be subject to a maximum of 125% of base salary and measured against stretching financial targets.
50% of the bonus will be based on Adjusted EBITA and 50% will be based on revenue.
Half of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares, which vest after a three-year period.
In line with our policy, Performance Share Plan PSP awards will be made to Executive Directors at 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO.
75% of the award will be measured against growth in Adjusted EPS and 25% against relative TSR versus the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
In setting the performance targets, we reviewed the range of Adjusted EPS targets in light of macro-economic conditions and performance expectations, and the range was re-calibrated from 8% to 12%, to 6% to 13%.
This range was considered to be similarly challenging to the range set to apply to the 2017 PSP having taken into account current circumstances.
Full details of the performance targets to be applied are set out on page 57.
Shares normally vest after a three-year performance period, subject to a further two-year holding period whereby the Executive Directors will be restricted from selling the shares which vest other than to settle any associated tax.
51 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration subject to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
This report has also been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out a summary of how the Directors Remuneration Policy was applied during 2017.
The policy in place for the year was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
This Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
Various disclosures in this report about the Directors remuneration have been audited by Ascentials independent auditor, KMPG LLP.
Where information has been audited, this has been clearly indicated.
What is the role of the Remuneration Committee?
The Remuneration Committee the Committee has responsibility for determining the overall pay policy for Ascential.
In particular, the Committee is responsible for: determining the framework or broad policy for the fair remuneration of Ascentials Executive Directors and Chairman, and certain other senior management: consulting with shareholders and their advisory bodies in advance of significant changes to remuneration policy: approving their remuneration packages and service contracts, giving due regard to the comments and recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code as well as the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules and associated guidance: ensuring that the remuneration policy is adequate and appropriate to attract, motivate and retain personnel of high calibre and provides, in a fair and responsible manner, reward for their individual contributions: reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy overseeing any major changes in remuneration and employee benefits structures throughout Ascential: approving the design of, and determining targets for, performance-related pay schemes operated by Ascential and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes: and reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
For any such plans, the Committee determines each year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to Executive Directors and other senior management, and the performance targets to be used.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Ascentials website.
What is the composition of the Remuneration Committee?
The Committee is made up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
There is cross-membership with the Audit Committee, whose remit includes review of risk management, to ensure that there is alignment between the Groups key risks and its remuneration policy.
The Committee members are Judy Vezmar Chairman, Gillian Kent and Paul Harrison.
Regular attendees include the external remuneration adviser, Chief Executive, Chief People Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary.
No attendee is present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Committee attendance during the year Committee meetings February June November 1st 23rd 20th 1st 29th Attendance Judy Vezmar 100% Gillian Kent 100% Paul Harrison 100% 52 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Total remuneration for the financial year to 31 December 2017 Audited The following tables report the total remuneration receivable in respect of qualifying services by each Director for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The 2016 figures represent remuneration received in respect of qualifying service for a part year from the Companys IPO in February 2016 to 31 December 2016.
2 Bonus was calculated as a percentage of annual salary received during 2017 i. e. pro-rated for salary increase with effect from 1 April 2017.
3 The first awards under the PSP were made in March 2016 and will vest in March 2019, subject to performance criteria.
Value on vesting will be reported in the Annual Report on Remuneration relating to the year in which they vest.
Mandy Gradden is also a non-executive director of SDL plc and received fees totalling 55,000 in 2017 from that external appointment.
Duncan Painter is a non-executive director of Investis Limited but has elected to waive his fee in relation to this appointment.
The base non-executive fee currently paid by Investis Limited is 30,000 per annum.
How was the annual bonus payment determined?
Audited The bonus elements with targets for the year, performance against these targets, and the resulting payouts are set out below.
Target Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Actual Required Payout as a % Required Payout as a % Required Payout as a % Payout as a % % result of maximum result of maximum result of maximum Actual result of maximum Revenue 50 341.3 0 379.2 50 398.2 100 375.8 45 EBITA 50 98.1 0 109.0 50 114.5 100 108.4 50 1 Performance is rounded to the nearest whole percentage Financial metrics for the annual bonus plan are measured at constant currency and the targets have been adjusted from budget rates to reflect the actual exchange rates that were in force during 2017.
The above targets were also adjusted during the year to take account of material acquisitions and disposals.
The adjustments were made to ensure that the original targets were no more or less challenging than when initially set e. g. the EBITA and revenue targets were increased to reflect the expected additional benefit arising from the acquisitions.
The Committee therefore determined that in respect of the year to 31 December 2017, the resulting annual bonus awards were as follows: Maximum opportunity Actual % Total Paid Deferred 1 % of salary of salary awarded in cash in shares Duncan Painter 125 59.4 302,070 151,035 151,035 Mandy Gradden 125 59.4 204,398 102,199 102,199 1 Bonus payable has been calculated as a percentage of the salary earned by each Director in 2017.
The annual bonus is subject to deferral and 50% of the above awards will be paid as conditional share awards with a three-year vesting period.
The Committee confirmed the level of bonus payouts were appropriate with respect to the 2017 performance.
At the time of setting the targets the Committee considered the target ranges to provide an appropriate balance between being achievable at the bottom end of the performance ranges and providing a stretch target at the top end of the ranges.
The targets were considered similarly demanding to those set for 2016 allowing for changes to the Companys portfolio of businesses and, for any bonuses to become payable, a threshold EBITA was set at 98.1m which was well ahead of the threshold target set in 2016 of 90.9m and 2016 actual achieved of 89.3m.
53 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED What equity awards have been granted during the year?
Audited The Executive Directors received the following awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP during the year.
Awards made under the DABP relate to the mandatory deferral of 50% of the bonus payable to Executive Directors into shares.
Type of Number Face value as Threshold 1 award of shares Face value a % of salary vesting End of performance period Duncan Painter PSP 307,219 919,998 200% 25% 31 December 2019 DABP 19,201 57,499 12% Mandy Gradden PSP 184,081 551,249 175% 25% 31 December 2019 DABP 13,099 39,226 12% 1 Face value as a percentage of salary has been calculated on the Directors annual salary at the date of grant in March 2017.
The 2017 PSP and DABP awards were both granted as nil cost options.
The share price at the date of grant for both awards was 2.9946.
Awards under the DABP are not subject to performance criteria as they are the element of the 2016 performance related to annual bonus paid as deferred shares which will normally vest three years after the date of grant.
The 2017 PSP Awards are subject to the following performance criteria, which are measured independently: Threshold Stretch Performance criteria Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Measurement period Adjusted EPS Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR 75% 8% 12% CAGR measured over the three financial years to 2019, using 2016 as the base year 1 Relative Total Shareholder Return Median Upper Average Net Return Index of Company 25% quartile and each member of the constituent group Average Return during the three month period ending on 31 December 2016 to the Average Return during the three month period to 31 December 2019 1 The Comparator Group for the purposes of the TSR performance condition is the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
What other interests do the Directors have in Ascential share plans?
Free shares under the Share Incentive Plan were granted in connection with the IPO at a share price of 2.00, being the IPO Offer Price.
The share price at the date of grant was 2.36.
Both Executive Directors participate in the Ascential Save As You Earn scheme saving a monthly amount of 500, as a result of which, on 30 September 2016 they were granted options over ordinary shares in Ascential plc.
Options are ordinarily exercisable for a period of six months following the end of a three year savings contract and subject to the payment of an exercise price per share under option of 2.04, a 20% discount on the share price at the date of offer.
The table below summarises the outstanding awards made to the Executive Directors.
The closing share price of Ascentials ordinary shares at 31 December 2017 was 385.3p and the closing price range from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 was 268.0p to 386.0p.
Ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements under the PSP, DABP, SAYE and SIP may be provided by Ascentials Employee Benefits Trusts EBT.
As beneficiaries under the EBT, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the Ordinary Shares held by the EBT which, at 31 December 2017, amounted to 448,744.
Assuming that all awards made under Ascentials share plans vest in full, Ascential has utilised 1.65% of the 10% in ten years and 1.11% of the 5% in five years dilution limits.
54 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements What pension payments were made in 2017?
Audited The table below provides details of the Executive Directors pension benefits: Total contributions to Cash in lieu of contributions DC-type pension plan to DC-type pension plan 000 000 Duncan Painter 1.5 38.2 Mandy Gradden 26.7 Each Executive Director has the right to participate in Ascentials defined contribution pension plan or to elect to be paid some or all of their contribution in cash.
Pension contributions and or cash allowances are capped at 9% of salary.
Were there any payments made to past Directors during 2017?
Audited There were no payments made to any past Directors during the year.
What are the Directors shareholdings and is there a guideline?
Audited Details of the Directors interests in shares including those of their connected persons are shown in the table below.
Outstanding awards Beneficially Beneficially Shareholder owned at owned at guideline Director 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 achieved?
PSP DABP SAYE SIP Duncan Painter 3,551,030 3,528,429 Yes 709,719 19,201 8,823 509 Mandy Gradden 771,780 1,171,773 Yes 420,331 13,099 8,823 509 Scott Forbes 206,050 206,050 n a Rita Clifton n a Paul Harrison 2,820 n a Judy Vezmar 50,000 50,000 n a Gillian Kent n a Total 4,581,680 4,956,252 1,130,050 32,300 17,646 1,018 To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, each Executive Director must build up and maintain a shareholding in Ascential equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Until the guideline is met, Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of any PSP and DABP share awards that vest or are exercised net of tax.
Mandy Gradden disposed of 400,000 shares at a price of 2.98 on 2 March 2017 following the expiration of the 360 day lock-up period following Admission on 12 February 2016 and the announcement of the Companys 2016 financial results.
Her resultant holding remains well in excess of the shareholding guideline of 200% of salary.
How does the CEOs pay compare to Ascentials performance?
This graph shows a comparison of Ascentials total shareholder return share price growth plus dividends paid with that of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts since Admission.
This index has been selected as it comprises companies of a comparable size and complexity and provides a good indication of Ascentials relative performance.
Total Shareholder return 200 150 100 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 Ascential plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in Ascential plc on 08 February 2016, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts by each year end.
55 Value Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The total remuneration figure for the CEO during 2016 and 2017 is shown below.
The 2016 figures relate to the period from Admission on 24 February 2016 to 31 December 2016.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus which was awarded based on performance in those years.
Where that bonus was subject to deferral, it is shown in the year in which it was awarded.
No long-term incentive awards vested to the CEO during the period.
2017 2016 Total Remuneration 000 856 565 Annual Bonus % of max 47.5% 20.0% How does the change in CEOs pay compare to that for Ascential employees?
The movement in the salary and annual bonus for the CEO, who is the highest paid Director, between the current and previous financial year compared to that for the average UK employee is shown below.
Percentage change1 CEO Salary 10% Bonus 163% Taxable benefits No material change Average employee Salary 2% Bonus 7% Taxable benefits 11% 1 Duncan Painters 2016 salary has been annualised to provide a more accurate comparative to 2017 as the single figure of remuneration for 2016 salary relates to qualifying services for the period from IPO in February 2016 to 31 December 2016, whilst the average employee 2016 figure relates to the full year.
Duncan Painters salary was re-set during 2017 following shareholder consultation and as approved at the 2017 AGM.
He will receive a 2.5% base pay increase in 2018.
2016 bonus was paid at 20% of maximum, compared to 48% of maximum in 2017.
In 2017, bonus attainment was calculated solely by reference to financial performance.
Other employees within Ascential receive a bonus linked partially to personal key performance indicators.
How much does Ascential spend on pay and dividends?
Audited 2017 2016 % change Total employee costs 136.4m 111.1m 23% Dividend per ordinary share 5.6p 4.7p 19% 1 The 2016 figure of 4.7p is the total dividend per ordinary share paid in respect of the 2016 financial year.
The 2017 figure of 5.6p is the 2017 interim dividend and the proposed 2017 final dividend per ordinary share, which is subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
What advice did the Committee receive?
The Committee conducted a review of its external remuneration adviser and subsequently appointed Korn Ferry Hay Group as the new independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee in October 2017.
Previously, the Committee had been advised by New Bridge Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, part of Aon plc.
Aon also provides insurance broking services to the Company.
Korn Ferry Hay Group do not provide any services to the Company.
Both advisers are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires that is advice be objective and impartial.
Total fees paid during the year for providing advice and information related to remuneration and employee share plans to the Committee were 37,372 to New Bridge Street and 14,720 to Korn Ferry Hay Group.
The CEO and other senior management were invited to attend meetings as the Committee considered appropriate, but did not take part in discussions directly regarding their own remuneration.
The Committees terms of reference are available on Ascentials website or are available in hard copy on request from the Company Secretary.
What votes were received in relation to the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM?
Annual Report on Remuneration Policy % Remuneration % Votes cast in favour 343,536,389 98.60 346,171,164 99.36 Votes cast against 4,878,355 1.40 2,243,580 0.64 Total votes cast 348,414,744 346,171,164 Abstentions 502 502 56 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements How will the Directors Remuneration Policy be used in the 2018 financial year?
Base salary The base salaries of the Executive Directors will be increased by 2.5% with effect from 1 April 2018, in line with the wider employee group, taking Duncan Painters salary to 538,125 and Mandy Graddens salary to 362,850.
Annual bonus plan The annual bonus plan will continue to be subject to a maximum of 125% of base salary and measured against stretching financial targets.
Half of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares which vest after a three-year period.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive.
An explanation of bonus payouts and performance achieved, along with the targets set, will be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance Share Plan The Committee intends to grant PSP awards to the Executive Directors in 2018 at 200% of salary for Duncan Painter and 175% of salary for Mandy Gradden.
Each element will be assessed independently of each other.
The Adjusted EPS targets that are intended to apply to the 2018 PSP awards were set following the Committees review of internal financial planning, external market expectations, current macro-economic conditions and range of targets to apply will require annual growth of between 6% and 13% per annum from the 2017 Adjusted EPS result.
These targets are considered to be no less challenging to the range of targets set for the 2017 awards, providing a realistic incentive at the lower end of the performance range, but with full vesting requiring exceptional outperformance in the current commercial context.
A summary of the 2018 performance targets is set out below: Threshold Stretch Performance criteria Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Measurement period Adjusted EPS Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR 75% 6% 13% CAGR measured over the three financial years to 2020, using 2017 as the base year Relative Total Shareholder Return Median Upper Average Return Index of Company and 25% ranking quartile each member of the constituent group ranking Average Return during the three month period ending on 31 December 2017 to the Average Return during the three month period to 31 December 2020 Vesting between threshold and maximum will be measured on a straight line basis.
Shares normally vest after a three-year performance period, subject to a further two-year holding period whereby the Executive Directors will be restricted from selling the net of tax shares which vest.
What are the current and future Non-Executive Director fees?
In line with the Executive Directors and the wider employee population, the fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors will increase by 2.5% with effect from 1 April 2018.
2018 2017 % change Board Chairman 174,250 170,000 2.5% Basic fee 51,250 50,000 2.5% Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 Additional fee for Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 57 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy reflects differences Directors Remuneration Policy as approved at compared to the broader employee base that are appropriate to the 2017 AGM leadership at an even higher standard of success to ensure alignment with shareholder interests.
A greater weight is placed on performanceThis part of the Remuneration Report sets out Ascentials based pay through the quantum and participation levels in incentive Remuneration Policy for its Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and guidelines from major investors.
Are the views of shareholders taken into account?
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM in The Committee values and is committed to dialogue with shareholders.
This is the first time that shareholders will vote on the Remuneration Policy and in preparing this policy we have sought feedback from our Policy overview major shareholders, the Investment Association and ISS, and we will When setting the policy for Directors remuneration, the Committee continue to carefully consider any shareholder feedback received in takes into account the overall business strategy and risk tolerance, relation to the AGM this year and in future.
In addition, the Committee considering the long-term interests of the Company with a view to will continue to engage proactively with shareholders and ensure that adequately attracting, retaining and rewarding skilled individuals and shareholders are consulted in advance, where any material changes to delivering rewards to shareholders.
the Directors Remuneration Policy are proposed.
Through the process of review this year, the Committee Chair has consulted with Consistent with these principles, the Committee has agreed a shareholders who in aggregate hold a majority of our shares.
Remuneration Policy which will: provide a simple remuneration structure which is easily understood by all stakeholders: attract, retain and motivate executives and senior management in order to deliver the Companys strategic goals and business outputs: promote the long-term success of the business: provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performancerelated, and immediate and deferred remuneration to support a high-performance culture: adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and best practice: align executives with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders: and consider the wider pay environment, both internally and externally.
How are wider employment conditions taken into account?
The Committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles which form the basis for decisions on Executive Directors pay are consistent with those on which pay decisions for the rest of the workforce are taken.
For example, the Committee takes into account the general salary increase for the broader employee population when conducting the salary review for the Executive Directors.
All permanent employees are eligible for a performance-related annual bonus and the Company operates UK and International Sharesave and US Stock Purchase saving plans for employees wishing to invest in the Companys shares.
A formal employee consultation on remuneration is not operated: however, employees are able to provide feedback on the Companys remuneration policies to their managers or the Human Resources department informally as well as through the employee engagement survey and annual performance review process.
Fixed ratios between the total remuneration levels of different roles in Ascential are not applied, as this may prevent us from recruiting and retaining the necessary talent in competitive employment markets.
58 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements What are the elements of the Executive Directors pay?
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Provides a competitive Set at a level which provides a fair reward for the role Increases will normally Base salary and appropriate and which is competitive amongst relevant peers.
be in line with the level of basic fixed general increase for Normally reviewed annually with any changes pay appropriate to the broader employee taking effect from 1 April each year.
recruit, retain and population, taking reward Directors of into account factors Set taking into consideration individual and Company a suitable calibre to such as performance performance, the responsibilities and accountabilities of each deliver the Companys of the Company and role, the experience of each individual, his or her marketability strategic goals and external factors such and Ascentials key dependencies on the individual.
More Reference is also made to salary levels amongst relevant peers significant increases Reflects an individuals and other companies of equivalent size and complexity.
than standard may be experience, performance awarded from time to The Committee considers the impact of any basic and responsibilities time to recognise, for salary increase on the total remuneration package.
example, development in role and change in position or responsibility, as are also considered for the wider workforce for the same reasons.
Current salary levels are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits Provides market Benefits provided may include private medical insurance, There is no overall competitive and life assurance and income protection insurance.
maximum level of appropriate benefits benefits provided to The benefits provided may be subject to minor package.
Executive Directors, amendment from time to time by the Committee within and the level of some this policy.
In addition, Executive Directors are eligible of these benefits is for other benefits which are introduced for the wider not pre-determined workforce on broadly similar terms.
The Company may but may vary from reimburse any reasonable business related expenses year to year based on including tax thereon incurred in connection with their the overall cost to the role if these are determined to be taxable benefits.
However, the Committee monitors annually the overall cost of the benefits provided to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Pension Provides a competitive Each Executive Director has the right to participate Pension contributions and appropriate in the pension scheme operated by the Company and or cash allowances pension package.
either via a contribution into the Companys defined are set at 9% of contribution plan, or via a cash supplement net of base salary.
Encourages employee Ascential may from time to time operate taxThe schemes are All-employee share share ownership and approved share plans such as HMRC-approved Save subject to the limits plans therefore increases As You Earn Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan set by HMRC from alignment with for which Executive Directors could be eligible.
59 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Incentivises the Paid annually, bonuses will be subject to achievement The maximum bonus Annual bonus execution of key annual of stretching financial performance measures.
The payable to Executive goals by driving and Committee also has discretion to introduce nonDirectors is 125% of rewarding performance financial and or strategic measures in future years.
It is base salary with 50% of against targets aligned intended, however, that financial measures will determine maximum payable for to delivery of strategy.
the majority of the annual bonus opportunity.
The Compulsory deferral of 50% of bonus earned will normally be deferred into awards minimum percentage a proportion of bonus over shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, of maximum that may into Ascential shares with awards normally vesting after a three-year period.
be paid for threshold provides alignment performance is 0%.
Recovery and withholding provisions are in operation across with shareholders.
the annual bonus and the DABP in certain circumstances, Dividends may accrue including where there has been a misstatement of accounts, on DABP awards over an error in assessing any applicable performance conditions, the vesting period or in the event of misconduct on the part of the participant.
and be paid out either as cash or as shares on vesting.
Rewards the Annual awards of performance shares that normally The normal maximum Performance Share achievement of vest after three years subject to performance conditions opportunity is 200% Plan PSP sustained longand continued service.
Performance is normally tested of base salary, in line term performance over a period of at least three financial years.
with the policy set at that is aligned with IPO.
In exceptional For the awards granted in FY18, awards will be shareholder interests.
circumstances this subject to targets based on growth in Adjusted EPS may be increased to Facilitates share and relative TSR measured against the constituents 250% of salary.
ownership to provide of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
further alignment Current award levels are Different performance measures and or weightings with shareholders.
200% of base salary for may be applied for future awards as appropriate.
At the CEO and 175% of least 50% of future awards will be subject to financial base salary for the CFO.
measures which will normally be a profit measure.
The Committee will consult in advance with major shareholders Dividends may accrue prior to any significant changes being made.
on PSP awards over the vesting period and Following vesting, a further two-year holding period will be paid out either as apply to the awards whereby Executive Directors will be cash or as shares on restricted from selling the net of tax shares which vest.
vesting in respect of the number of shares Recovery and withholding provisions operate in certain that have vested.
circumstances, including where there has been a misstatement of accounts, an error in assessing any applicable performance conditions, or in the event of misconduct on the part of the participant.
These provisions apply for at least three years from the date on which an award vests.
Encourages Executive Each Executive Director must build up and maintain a Not applicable.
Shareholding Directors to build a shareholding in Ascential equivalent to 200% of base salary.
guideline meaningful shareholding If an Executive Director does not meet the guideline, they in Ascential so as to will be expected to retain at least half of the net shares further align interests vesting under the Companys discretionary share-based with shareholders.
employee incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
60 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements What discretions does the Committee retain in operating the What about pre-existing arrangements?
In approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to The Committee operates Ascentials various incentive plans according the Remuneration Committee to honour any commitments entered into to their respective rules.
To ensure the efficient operation and with current or former Directors that pre-date the approval of the administration of these plans, the Committee retains discretion in policy.
Details of any payments to current or former Directors will be relation to a number of areas.
Consistent with market practice, these set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration if and when they arise.
include but are not limited to the following: How does the executive pay policy differ from that for other selecting the participants: Ascential employees?
the timing of grant and or payment: The Remuneration Committee considers the Executive Directors the size of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the remuneration in the context of the wider employee population.
All of policy table above : the Companys employees participate in annual bonus arrangements the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: and have the opportunity to participate in share-based rewards such as determination of a good leaver and, where relevant, the extent of SAYE and SIP.
The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is vesting in the case of the share based plans: more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, treatment in exceptional circumstances such as a change of control, to make a greater part of their pay conditional on the successful in which the Committee would act in the best interests of Ascential delivery of business strategy.
This aims to create a clear link between and its shareholders: the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by making the appropriate adjustments required in certain the Executive Directors.
circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : How much could an Executive Director earn under the cash settling awards: and Remuneration Policy?
the annual review of performance measures, weightings and setting A significant proportion of total remuneration is linked to Company targets for the discretionary incentive plans from year to year.
performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
Any performance conditions may be amended or substituted if one or The chart below illustrates how the Executive Directors potential more events occur which cause the Committee to reasonably consider reward opportunity varies under three different performance scenarios: that the performance conditions would not without alteration achieve fixed pay only, on-target and at maximum.
Illustrations are intended to its original purpose.
Any varied performance condition would not be provide further information to shareholders regarding the pay for materially less difficult to satisfy in the circumstances.
Actual pay delivered will be influenced by changes in share price and the vesting levels of awards.
How does the Committee choose performance measures and set targets?
The Executive Directors can participate in the two all-employee share The performance metrics used for the annual bonus plan and PSP have schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be been selected to reflect Ascentials key performance indicators.
received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these The annual bonus is based on performance against a stretching schemes has been excluded from the table opposite.
combination of financial and, in certain years, non-financial performance measures.
The financial measures are set taking account What would a new Executive Director be paid?
of Ascentials key operational objectives but will typically include a The ongoing remuneration package for a new Executive Director measure of profitability and or revenue as these are key performance would be set in accordance with the terms of Ascentials .
In 2017, the annual bonus will be measured solely on approved Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment and the revenue 50% and profit 50% targets.
maximum limits set out therein.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy that no ongoing special arrangements will be made, and in the The performance conditions for the PSP are based on a profit measure event that any deviation from standard policy is required to recruit a and TSR performance.
Relative TSR has been selected as it reflects new hire on an ongoing basis, approval would be sought at the Annual comparative performance against a broad index of companies.
aligns the rewards received by Executives with the returns received by shareholders.
For the 2018 awards, this is the FTSE 250 excluding Base salary levels will be set in accordance with Ascentials investment trusts as the Company is a constituent of that index.
Remuneration Policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Salaries may be set at a below market level initially with A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for both of a view to increasing them to the market rate subject to individual these measures and further details of the targets applied are set out in performance and developing into the role by making phased above the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to the other the appropriateness of the performance targets and TSR peer group Executive Directors, taking account of local market practice.
What would the ongoing incentive arrangements be for a newly Different performance measures and or weightings may be applied for appointed Executive Director?
However, the Committee will consult in advance with major shareholders prior to any significant changes Currently, for an Executive Director, annual bonus payments will not being made.
exceed 125% of base salary and PSP payments will not normally exceed 200% of base salary not including any arrangements to replace forfeited entitlements.
Where necessary, specific annual bonus and PSP targets and different vesting and or holding periods may be used for an individual for the first year of appointment if it is appropriate to do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities and the point in the year in which they joined the Board.
A PSP award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a close period.
61 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2,500 2,340k 2,000 46% 1,601k 1,488k 1,500 42% 43% 1,023k 1,000 29% 39% 21% 592k 30% 400k 22% 500 Fixed Pay 100% 37% 25% Annual Bonus 100% 39% 27% LTIP 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer Assumptions: Minimum: Fixed pay only consisting of salary as at 1 April 2018, plus 2017 benefits plus 9% of salary pension On-target: Fixed pay plus 50% of the maximum bonus of 125% of salary and PSP vesting of 62.5% of the maximum award of 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO Maximum: Fixed pay plus maximum bonus of 125% of salary plus full vesting of the PSP awards of 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO What payments could a newly appointed Executive Director receive What payments will an Executive Director receive when they leave beyond the policy?
The Committee retains flexibility to offer additional cash and or share An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated summarily based awards on appointment to take account of remuneration or without notice and without any further payment or compensation, benefit arrangements forfeited by an Executive on leaving a previous except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, if they are employer.
If shares are used, such awards may be made under the terms deemed to be guilty of gross misconduct or for any other material of the PSP or as permitted under the Listing Rules.
breach of the obligations under their employment contract.
Such payments would take into account the nature of awards forfeited The Company may suspend the Executive Directors or put them on a and would reflect as far as possible performance conditions, the values period of garden leave during which they will be entitled to salary, foregone and the time over which they would have vested or been benefits and pension only.
Awards may be made in cash if the Company is in a prohibited period at the time an Executive joins the Company.
If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated in other circumstances, compensation may include base salary due for any The Committee may also agree that the Company will meet certain unexpired notice period, pro-rata bonus normally based on relocation, legal, tax equalisation and any other incidental expenses as performance assessed after the year end in respect of the proportion appropriate so as to enable the recruitment of the best people including of the financial year worked and any amount assessed by the those who need to relocate.
Committee as representing the value of other contractual benefits which would have been received during the period.
The Company may What about an internal appointment?
choose to continue providing some benefits instead of paying a cash In the case of an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable sum, representing their cost.
Any annual bonus paid to a departing pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay Executive Director would normally be paid in cash, at the normal out according to its terms, and adjusted as relevant to take into account payment date, and reduced pro-rata to reflect the actual period the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration worked.
obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims Are the Executive Directors allowed to hold external appointments?
in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of Executive Directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice and provision the prior approval of the Board and where there is no impact on their of outplacement services would be paid as necessary.
The Board will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the Executive Directors will be permitted to retain any fees Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at arising from such appointments and, where any such fees are retained, Ascentials registered office during normal business hours and will be they will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
available for inspection at the AGM.
What are the Executive Directors terms of employment?
What are their notice periods?
The Executive Directors have entered into service agreements with an indefinite term that may be terminated by either party on 12 months written notice.
Contracts for new appointments will be terminable by either party on a maximum of 12 months written notice.
62 thousands Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements How are outstanding share awards treated when an Executive Director leaves Ascential?
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under Ascentials share plans will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Usually, any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, injury, disability, retirement with the consent of the Committee, the sale of the entity that employs him her out of Ascential or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status may be applied.
For good leavers under the PSP, outstanding awards will normally vest at the original vesting date to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied, and would normally be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by the Company.
The Committee retains the discretion to vest awards and measure performance accordingly on cessation and or to disapply time pro-rating: however, it is envisaged that this would only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
For good leavers under the DABP, unvested awards will vest at the original vesting date unless the Committee exercises its discretion and allows the award to vest in full on, or shortly following, the date of cessation.
In determining whether a departing Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
What happens to their outstanding share awards if there is a takeover or other corporate event?
Outstanding awards on a takeover or winding up of the Company will vest early to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied, and would normally be reduced on a pro-rata basis to reflect the period of time which has elapsed between the grant date and the date on which the participant ceases to be employed by the Company, although the Committee would retain discretion to waive time pro-rating of an award if it regards it as appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
In the event of a demerger, special dividend or other event which, in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the current or future value of shares, the Committee may decide that awards will vest on a basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company, unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on a basis which would apply in the case of a takeover.
How are the Non-Executive Directors paid?
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including framework used to assess performance Opportunity Non-Executive To attract and The Company Chairman is paid an annual fee.
The NonThe fees are subject Director fees retain a high-calibre Executives including the Senior Independent Director to maximum aggregate Chairman and Nonare paid a basic fee with the Chairmen of the main Board limits as set out Executive Directors Committees and the Senior Independent Director paid in the Companys by offering market additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities and Articles of Association competitive fee levels.
If there is a temporary yet material 2,000,000. increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive The Committee is Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a proguided by the general rata basis to recognise the additional workload.
increase for the broader The level of fees is reviewed periodically by the Committee employee population, and Chief Executive for the Company Chairman and by but on occasions may the Company Chairman and Executive Directors for the need to recognise, for Non-Executive Directors and set taking into consideration example, changes in market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, the responsibility, and or time commitment and responsibilities of the role and time commitments.
to reflect the experience and expertise required.
Current fee levels The Company Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are disclosed in the are not eligible to participate in incentive arrangements or to Annual Report on receive benefits save that they are entitled to reimbursement Remuneration.
of reasonable business expenses and tax thereon.
They may also receive limited travel or accommodation related benefits in connection with their role as a Director.
63 Ascential plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED What would a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director be paid?
For a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
What are the terms of appointment for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors?
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years save for the Chairman who is appointed for a nine-year term subject to annual re-election by the Company at a general meeting.
The appointment of each Chairman and Non-Executive Director may be terminated by either party with three months notice.
The appointment of each may also be terminated at any time if he or she is removed as a Director by resolution at a general meeting or pursuant to the Articles, provided that in such circumstances the Company will except where the removal is by reason of his misconduct pay the Chairman or NonExecutive an amount in lieu of his or her fees for the unexpired portion of his or her notice period.
Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of Ascential during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Dates of Directors service contracts letters of appointment Unexpired term Date of service contract of contract at appointment 31 December 2017 Executive Directors Duncan Painter 21 January 2016 Rolling contract Mandy Gradden 21 January 2016 Rolling contract Non-Executive Directors Scott Forbes 11 January 2016 Rita Clifton 12 May 2016 Paul Harrison 21 January 2016 Judy Vezmar 21 January 2016 Gillian Kent 21 January 2016 Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2018 and is signed on its behalf by: Judy Vezmar Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 February 2018 64
