STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT to ensure the remuneration arrangements Introducing capped incentives support our business strategy and reflect Our current policy contains no limits on regulatory requirements.
the amounts that individual Executive Directors can be awarded under Our proposals are not intended to incentive schemes.
Practice in the asset increase overall remuneration management sector has evolved with an opportunity for Executive Directors: they increasing number of companies now are designed to keep total remuneration operating incentive caps so as to comply opportunity in the same range as recent with investor guidelines.
Our proposed compensation, and the potential upside new policy will introduce individual has now been capped.
We propose to incentive caps on both bonus and LTIP rebalance the remuneration structure, to bring us in line with best practice and adopting a more market conventional reflects a response to shareholder approach through introducing a cap on feedback.
the maximum incentive opportunity by DEAR SHAREHOLDER, reference to a multiple of salary and Simplification I am pleased to present our Directors increasing the base salary.
Under the Our current remuneration arrangements Remuneration Report for 2017, my first as proposed approach a greater involve a large number of corporate Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
I proportion of the overall package will be financial measures which make them would like to thank my predecessor, delivered in the form of sharebased relatively complex.
The proposed new Lorraine Trainer, for her leadership over incentives and awards under which policy will reduce the number of measures the previous six and a half years, and performance will be assessed on a used and, as a result, simplify the structure.
her ongoing valuable contribution as a multiyear basis, including over five Governance features member of the Committee.
We consider that this increase in In addition, there are a number of weighting towards longerterm The 2017 report is split into two parts: additional features within the new policy performancebased awards offsets the which align with current governance increase in salary.
ll The Directors Remuneration Policy.
guidelines and best practices for This is subject to a binding vote and The key changes to our Directors executive pay in listed companies: sets out our future policy for approval Remuneration Policy are summarised by shareholders.
ll Around 90% of the Chief Executives below and are set out in more detail in maximum annual remuneration the remainder of this report on pages 63 ll The Annual Report on Remuneration.
package and approximately 80% of This outlines how we implemented our to 69. the Chief Financial Officers will be current policy in 2017 and how we Reinforcing long-term value strategy subject to performance conditions.
intend to apply the new Directors The objective of our corporate strategy Remuneration Policy in 2018.
This is ll Future Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP is to deliver longterm value to clients subject to an advisory vote by awards granted to Executive Directors and shareholders.
will be subject to a twoyear post structure in the proposed new policy will vesting holding period, bringing the align more closely with this objective by To reflect changes resulting from our total timescale for awards to five proposed new Directors Remuneration increasing focus on longterm results years.
Policy, we are also putting forward new ll Executive Director annual bonus and rules for our deferred bonus and LTIP awards are subject to the Removal of salary cap longterm incentive plans for shareholder satisfaction of a risk, conduct and Our current policy contains a 250,000 approval at our 2018 AGM.
Future LTIP per annum cap on salaries that applies awards will also only vest subject to REMUNERATION REVIEW AND throughout Jupiter.
Whilst appropriate in satisfaction of an additional underlying the immediate period post Jupiters NEW POLICY business performance underpin.
Our existing remuneration arrangements listing, this cap has become increasingly uncompetitive in the market, limiting ll Executive Director incentive awards for Executive Directors were put in place when Jupiter listed in 2010 and were internal progression and leading to high are subject to malus and clawback proportions of variable pay when provisions.
approved by shareholders in 2014, and again in 2017 for a limited twelve month applying individual caps on incentive ll Executive Directors are required to plans.
The proposed new policy will period.
It is now time to seek reapproval build up and retain significant holdings of our policy from shareholders and, enable us to provide market competitive of Jupiter shares 300% of salary for salaries within a rebalanced pay given the changes in best practice and the Chief Executive: 200% of salary for regulatory and investor remuneration framework.
Any future salary increases other Executive Directors.
This is an for incumbent Executive Directors during guidelines since 2010, we believe that it is upper quartile shareholding now necessary to rebalance our the policy period will be limited to the requirement for companies in the FTSE same level as the average increase in remuneration arrangements and adopt a 250 index.
structure in line with these developments.
ll Jupiter offers a consistent level of pension I am grateful to all the shareholders and provision to its UK workforce, including investor bodies who have continued their Executive Directors, of 15% of salary.
positive engagement with Jupiter throughout 2017.
This has allowed us to develop a new policy which reflects the feedback from investors, whilst continuing 59 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED THE LINK BETWEEN STRATEGY PERFORMANCE AND Overall, the pool spend remains below AND REMUNERATION REMUNERATION FOR 2017 27.5% of adjusted preincentive operating Jupiters primary focus is on delivering As discussed throughout this Annual profit with the variable and total value to clients through longterm Report, 2017 delivered a continuation of compensation expense ratios at 29.7% investment outperformance after all fees.
This was and 33.4% respectively: therefore, it is Jupiters business model of combining this anchored in the investment performance within the expected ranges previously investment outperformance with an of our mutual funds where 81% of AUM communicated.
In establishing the total effective distribution platform, supported performed above median over three variable compensation pool, the by efficient and scaleable operations, years, after all fees.
This strong longterm Remuneration Committee considered the allows us to deliver value to our investment performance translated into relative distribution of value between shareholders.
Jupiters strategic growth has high levels of positive net flows across staff and shareholders and that required enabled us to deliver significant value to our funds, totalling 5.5bn for the year, for tax authorities and to be retained for shareholders since listing in 2010, through a 174% ahead of budget.
progressive ordinary dividend policy, positive markets, AUM closed at 50.2bn As illustrated on page 91, employees special dividend and via capital at year end, up 24% yearonyear.
total compensation increased by 14% in appreciation.
Incentive awards for Executive Directors in line with the increase in profit after tax, Jupiters remuneration policy will continue 2017 reflect this strong overall corporate and at a lower rate than the 20% to support the delivery of the Companys performance and are consistent with the increase in the dividends.
growth strategy, and it is important to experience of shareholders, who saw a The Remuneration Committee concluded ensure that an appropriate balance is 42% growth in the share price and an that the increase in variable maintained in how the Companys increase in dividends for the year.
Details remuneration expense yearonyear profitability is shared between staff and of actual performance against the targets remained balanced with an increase in shareholders, after ensuring adequate set for 2017 and the specific individual the proportion paid as dividends to capital is retained to maintain a strong variable pay awards can be found on shareholders.
The table below pages 72 to 77. demonstrates how Jupiters remuneration policy for Executive Directors successfully supports the continued delivery of Jupiters business model.
Investment outperformance to shareholders by avoiding over 4.
Value creation ll As an active investment firm, concentration.
Within the annual bonus ll Our remuneration philosophy aligns investment outperformance is critical we examine the mix of AUM across executive rewards with longterm to delivering value to our clients.
It is different geographies, asset classes value creation for clients and measured in both the annual bonus and client channels.
shareholders across a range of and the LTIP performance metrics.
Efficient operations LTIP and shareholding requirements.
ll Measurement is calculated over ll Profitability is a key measure within the multiple time periods.
For the annual ll There will continue to be a strong link annual bonus, with a target set for bonus, we look back at investment between the available profit for underlying Profit Before Tax.
We also performance over one and three distribution to shareholders and the have a three year Earnings Per Share years.
For the LTIP, we measure variable compensation spend for growth target in our LTIP.
outperformance over a three and five employees, as detailed on page 12. ll The strategic and individual elements of year period.
In future, with the removal of the the bonus allow us to encourage our salary cap, we will focus on 2.
Effective distribution Executive Directors to focus on and reporting our total compensation ll Measurement of fund flows is included invest in key projects, which enable us ratio, which captures all elements in the annual bonus.
to grow a longterm, sustainable of compensation and is in line with business, protecting our operating good market practice.
ll Diversification is an important overlay, margin and keeping up with changing which helps in delivering stable returns regulatory requirements.
60 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In future years, with the removal of The Company has also recently salary caps and the introduction of established a HMRC approved Company capped individual variable incentives for Share Option Plan which will be used to Executive Directors, the Committee will make further UK taxefficient share focus on the total and variable awards to employees, excluding compensation expense ratios as the key Executive Directors, from 2018 onwards.
measures in assessing the overall level of This plan, along with the Share Incentive variable compensation spend.
Plan, further promote an environment of high employee share ownership and LINKING RISK AND REWARD alignment of interests with those of our Risk and compliance continue to serve other shareholders.
an important role in remuneration for all our employees, ensuring the desired SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT behaviours are being demonstrated.
The As mentioned above, I am grateful for Committee evaluates a robust set of risk the constructive engagement and checkpoints before approving the valuable feedback from our major variable compensation pool each year shareholders and the investor bodies in as described in detail on page 89, as helping develop the new policy.
We well as operating a risk, conduct and received a strong level of support for this compliance underpin for all individuals.
policy, and have incorporated investor This allows for individual variable feedback when possible.
We are keen to compensation awards to be reduced encourage an ongoing dialogue with our where appropriate, potentially to zero.
shareholders on our remuneration framework and look forward to receiving EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP your support at the forthcoming AGM.
Jupiter continues to encourage a culture of employee share ownership.
Currently, BRIDGET MACASKILL around 58% of our employees hold Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shares in the Company and are 26 February 2018 therefore aligned with our other shareholders in having a longterm interest in the Groups performance.
Approximately 25% of employees hold share options under one or both of our deferred bonus and longterm incentive plans.
We also operate two HMRC approved plans, a Sharesave and a Share Incentive Plan.
To reflect our strategy of diversifying internationally, in 2017 we also introduced a Sharesave equivalent for all our employees based outside the UK.
At the end of the 2017 financial year 79% of eligible employees were participating in at least one of the Share Incentive Plan, Sharesave or the international equivalent.
61 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE This table summarises remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors in 2017, alongside commentary of how we intend to apply our new policy in 2018, subject to shareholder approval.
Element 2017 approach 2018 approach Commentary Salary ll Salary cap of 250,000 ll Remove salary cap ll Move to market rates ll CEO 250,000, CFO 250,000 ll CEO 425,000, CFO 325,000 ll CEO salary set at median for asset and Vice Chairman 160,000 and Vice Chairman 160,000 manager competitors.
CEOs and CFOs 200,000 full time equivalent 200,000 full time equivalent salaries at lower quartile of FTSE 250 Pension ll 15% of salary ll 15% of salary ll Pension contributions are consistent with those for all UK employees Bonus opportunity ll No individual limits ll Introduction of individual bonus ll In line with feedback received from limits as a percentage of salary shareholders and market practice ll Subject to capped aggregate variable compensation pool ll CEO 425%, CFO 250% and Vice Chairman 200% of salary Bonus performance ll Balanced scorecard approach ll Balanced scorecard approach ll Corporate quantitative metrics for 2018 measures profit, net flows, investment ll Profitability, net flows, investment ll Profitability, net flows, investment outperformance will comprise 75% of outperformance, diversification, outperformance, strategic the bonus performance measures strategic operating objectives operating objectives and and personal performance personal performance ll Strategic and individual objectives will comprise 25% of bonus opportunity ll Concepts of Threshold, Target ll Concepts of Threshold, Target and Maximum performance and Maximum performance introduced into annual bonus embedded into annual bonus scorecard.
ll Retrospective disclosure of ll Retrospective disclosure of target ranges and performance target ranges and performance for quantitative measures and for quantitative measures and commentary for qualitative commentary for qualitative measures measures ll Risk and compliance underpins ll Risk and compliance underpins Deferral ll 50% of total bonus deferred into ll 50% of total bonus deferred ll The deferred bonus will vest in equal shares for three years and into shares over three years tranches over three years, rather than subject to additional six month and subject to additional six in one tranche after three years as holding period month holding period previously ll Half of the remaining 50% ll Half of the remaining 50% ll Deferred awards will accrue entitlement delivered as shares subject to a delivered as shares subject to a to the value of ordinary and special six month holding period six month holding period dividends throughout their unvested period LTIP opportunity ll No individual limits ll Introduction of individual LTIP ll In line with feedback received from limits as a percentage of salary shareholders ll Face value of grants subject to capped aggregate variable ll CEO 375%, CFO 225% and Vice ll Additional twoyear postvesting holding compensation pool Chairman 150% of salary period in line with investor remuneration guidelines and evolving market practice ll 2018 LTIP awards less than the policy maximums for the CEO ll Value of LTIP grants to be included in and CFO total compensation ratio, and monitored and reported in future ll Twoyear postvesting holding period LTIP performance ll Four measures with equal ll Two measures with equal ll Simplification of LTIP incentive by measures weighting: EPS, net sales, weighting: EPS growth and reducing the number of performance investment outperformance and investment outperformance over measures from four to two strategic goals extended timeframes ll Longterm investment performance ll Risk and compliance underpins ll Risk and compliance underpins.
assessed through three and five year Vesting of awards also subject outperformance after fees to an additional underlying ll Underpin allows for discretionary business performance underpin adjustment to vesting where outcome is not reflective of underlying business performance Shareholding ll 300% of salary for CEO ll 300% of salary for CEO ll Higher level of salary under the new requirements remuneration policy will substantially ll 200% of salary for other ll 200% of salary for other increase the minimum value of shares Executive Directors Executive Directors required to be held by the CEO and CFO Malus and ll Malus and clawback provisions ll Malus and clawback provisions ll Provisions recently reviewed to ensure clawback applies to all variable applies to all variable they remain appropriate and effective remuneration remuneration 62 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 within acceptable ranges when to support the execution of our business DIRECTORS approving the variable compensation strategy.
Aligned with the strategic and REMUNERATION POLICY spend in any year.
All employees, financial objectives set by the Board, including Executive Directors, are measures are chosen and targets are set This section of the report sets out our incentivised in a similar way and are to appropriately measure and incentivise proposed new Directors Remuneration rewarded according to the success of delivery of the key elements of Jupiters Policy the Policy.
The Policy is subject the Group and personal performance.
to a binding shareholder vote at our 2018 AGM.
Our intention is to operate Participation in the allemployee share For annual bonuses, the Committee the Policy for the 2018 performance year plans the HMRC approved Sharesave believes it is appropriate to use a and onwards, subject to shareholder and Share Incentive Plan is offered to all balanced scorecard approach.
We are also presenting two UK employees on the same terms.
Jupiter diversity of metrics allows multiple new sets of plan rules for the Deferred has also recently introduced a plan similar elements of corporate performance to Bonus Plan DBP and Long Term to Sharesave for our employees based be evaluated.
This is in the best interests Incentive Plan LTIP for shareholder outside of the UK, allowing all employees of our shareholders and clients, whilst approval, to allow for awards resulting to benefit from the opportunity of owning also being in line with shareholders from the new Policy to be granted.
shares in the Company and helping expectations.
Furthermore, it is in line further align the interests of all employees with regulatory expectations under CHANGES TO THE POLICY with shareholders.
UCITS V, AIFMD and CRD regimes.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement, the Committee has continued its Benefits are also offered on a consistent Setting appropriately stretching targets is consultation exercise with shareholders basis for example, the level of employer an area of particular focus for the throughout 2017.
This Policy reflects the pension contributions is 15% of base salary Committee.
We have set out our outcome of this extensive consultation for Executive Directors and all UK approach and process in respect of the exercise.
The main changes that have employees and other benefits, such as annual bonus cycle in detail on page 82. been made to the Policy are set out in private medical insurance, are offered to Achieving a maximum bonus award and the Chairmans Statement and the all UK employees on the same terms.
or full vesting under the LTIP will only summary table on page 62. occur for what the Committee considers STAKEHOLDER VIEWS to be exceptional performance.
The Committee reserves the right to The Remuneration Committee is make minor amendments to the Policy in committed to ongoing dialogue with Risk and compliance underpins apply to the future without shareholder approval investor bodies and shareholders, and all variable compensation which can for customary administrative reasons or consulted extensively with both in reduce awards, potentially to zero.
LTIP to obtain or maintain favourable tax, determining this Policy.
The level and awards will also only vest subject to exchange control or regulatory treatment importance of feedback received from satisfaction of an additional underlying for a Director.
shareholders and investor bodies during business performance underpin.
2016 was sufficient to persuade the Furthermore, the Committee makes REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE Committee to defer the introduction of reference to a series of checkpoints as The policy table Policy Table on pages this Policy for another year in order that outlined in our risk and reward section 66 to 69 summarises each of the appropriate consideration could be given on page 89, when approving the overall elements of the remuneration package to the comments received.
This has lead variable compensation pool for all for Executive Directors under the Policy.
The Policy Table specifies how each element of remuneration is linked to The Remuneration Committee has SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS Jupiters strategy, how it will be operated, considered the impact of this Policy on The Committee increased the the maximum opportunity available to wider stakeholders, including our clients, shareholding requirements for Executive Executive Directors and whether any our employees and the wider economy.
Directors with effect from the 2017 performance conditions apply to it.
After consulting with our major performance year.
The Chief Executive shareholders and other stakeholders, it is and other Executive Directors are CONTEXT OF ALL-EMPLOYEE PAY apparent that views across and within expected to build up shareholdings within The Jupiter Remuneration Committee these groups are not always uniform, but five years of their appointment date and considers the pay and conditions of all we did receive strong positive feedback maintain holdings of at least 300% and employees when determining remuneration 200% of base salary respectively.
These for the new Policy, particularly from our arrangements for Executive Directors.
Jupiter does not new shareholding levels were one of the minor changes to the remuneration currently have a formal employee The new Policy for Executive Directors representative body for discussing policy which shareholders approved at contains some minor differences in the the 2017 AGM and will remain at these remuneration matters.
However, the structure of pay compared to that of all Committee is satisfied that the Policy levels for the new Policy.
other employees, predominantly the takes a responsible approach to pay capping of individual variable pay The Committee monitors shareholdings and guards against irresponsible awards for Executive Directors.
against these requirements annually and behaviour or excessive risktaking.
Notwithstanding this, variable decides at its discretion what if any compensation awards for Executive action should be taken, which may EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE Directors and all other employees are MEASURES include requiring an individual to hold a funded from the same variable proportion of vested shares until the Performance measures and targets are compensation pool, and impact the selected and set by the Committee at requirements are met.
overall variable and total compensation the beginning of each performance year, ratios which the Committee ensures are 63 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED MALUS AND CLAWBACK LTIP awards may be recovered via malus allowances and other relocation Jupiter operates a malus and clawback at any time in the three years prior to related expenses, may also be paid at policy to support wider aims, including: the vesting date, and through clawback a level determined as appropriate by ensuring greater alignment between risk at any time after the vesting date for a the Remuneration Committee.
and individual reward: discouraging period of two years, in respect of any ll Variable remuneration: The maximum excessive risk taking and shorttermism: applicable event that occurs at any time level of variable remuneration which encouraging effective risk management: before the end of this period.
may be awarded to Executive and promoting positive behaviours and a Directors in the first year of Clawback provisions also apply in strong and appropriate conduct culture.
recruitment excluding any buyouts respect of bonus payments delivered as referred to below will be in line with Malus provisions apply so that relevant cash for a period of two years after the individual variable remuneration awards can be withheld or reduced payment, such that all variable limits set in the Policy Table.
including to zero in certain compensation is subject to malus and circumstances.
Any buyout awards granted in addition apply so that relevant awards can be to the above elements of the remuneration The Committee has recently reviewed the reclaimed in certain circumstances.
package will be required to be granted on malus and clawback provisions and is equivalent or no more favourable terms, in For the DBP and LTIP, malus and satisfied that they continue to accordance with applicable regulatory clawback provisions can apply in the appropriately support the wider aims rules and regulations, than the awards following circumstances: discussed above.
which they are buying out, in particular in respect of the: quantum of the award: i Financial results would have been RECRUITMENT timing of delivery: form of award: and materially lower on the basis of In the case of the future recruitment of a existence of performance conditions.
information that comes to light after new Executive Director, the Company the accounts for that year are would apply the following principles: Where necessary, any buyout awards finalised other than as a result of granted outside of the provisions of the ll Base salary: set in line with the Policy change of accounting policy rules of the LTIP will be granted under Table.
subsequent to the end of the year : the Listing Rules exemption applicable to ll Bonus: expected to be on the same such share arrangements.
ii Material failure of risk management basis as all other Executive Directors suffered by a Group Company: as outlined in the Policy Table.
In the case of the future recruitment of a Notwithstanding this, the Committee new Executive Director, the Company will iii Gross misconduct or material error on retains the flexibility to determine that disclose the full details of the recruitment the part of the individual: for the first year of appointment any package and the approach taken in the annual incentive award will be subject Annual Report on Remuneration iv Material reputational damage to such terms as it may determine.
occurring to a group company: ll DBP: awards will be granted in respect The other main contractual terms of the v Performance assessment error in of the relevant proportion of any service contract would follow the same relation to an individual when bonus paid in the year of recruitment, principles as those of existing Executive determining the level of their award: on the same basis as it applies for all Directors.
and other Executive Directors and the usual malus and clawback provisions would Any new NonExecutive Director would vi Any other circumstances which the apply to any award as outlined above.
be appointed with contractual terms and Board considers to be similar in its ll LTIP: in the year of recruitment, any a fee basis in line with the other existing nature or effect to those specified awards granted will be granted on the NonExecutive Directors.
same terms as apply to other Executive Directors and the usual EXIT PAYMENTS Malus provisions apply for all unvested malus and clawback provisions would Our overriding policy on termination DBP and LTIP awards granted in 2016 apply to any award as outlined above.
payments to Executive Directors is that and later years in respect of any events we do not include any contractual referred to above.
ll Allemployee share plans: participation provisions for compensation on early in the HMRC approved Sharesave Plan Clawback provisions apply to all vested termination, other than the amount due and HMRC approved Share Incentive DBP and LTIP awards granted in 2016 and under law.
The Committee will seek to Plan will be offered on the same basis later years, in respect of events described keep any other such payments to an as it is for all other Executive Directors in i to iii, and iv to the extent that the appropriate level, reflecting performance.
individual is considered to be directly ll Benefits: pension contributions, private In case of termination, a payment in lieu of responsible or directly accountable.
medical insurance, life assurance, notice may be due if such notice is not dependants pension and income Recovery of DBP awards may be given by the Company.
As set out in the protection will be provided on the invoked at any time in the three years summary table of Executive Director same basis as they are for all other from the grant date through either malus service contracts, no contractual employees including Executive or clawback, in respect of a malus or entitlement to a bonus payment accrues or Directors.
Where the Remuneration clawback event that occurs at any time arises during the notice period.
Any bonus Committee determines that such a before the end of this period.
payment that the Committee determines is payment is necessary for recruitment, appropriate to be paid in respect of an payments, for example, relocation Executive Director notice period will be 64 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 based on performance and may be made Remuneration Committee determines, include, but are not limited to, paying any in such proportions of cash and shares as taking into account the extent that fees for outplacement assistance and or the Committee may determine.
performance conditions have been the Directors legal and or professional satisfied and, unless the Committee advice fees in connection with the Leaver provisions under both the DBP and determines otherwise, the proportion of cessation of office or employment.
The respective rules the vesting period that has elapsed.
provide that any awards will lapse on In the case of a change in control of the cessation of the individuals office or The Committee reserves the right to make Company or equivalent transaction, the employment, other than in limited any other payments in connection with a Remuneration Committee may exercise its circumstances, as follows: death of the Directors cessation of office or discretion to assess performance employee: the illhealth, injury or disability employment where the payments are conditions applicable to outstanding LTIP of the employee: redundancy: retirement: made in good faith in discharge of or to awards to the date of the relevant event.
the sale of the individuals employing entity mitigate an existing legal obligation or by The Board may determine that outstanding out of the Group: and any other reason way of damages for breach of such an LTIP or DBP awards be exchanged for which the Remuneration Committee in its obligation or by way of settlement of any equivalent awards on such terms as absolute discretion so permits.
Where LTIP claim arising in connection with the agreed with the acquiring company.
If the awards vest in these circumstances, they cessation of a Directors office or Company is wound up the vesting of an would normally only vest to the extent the employment.
Any such payments may award will be accelerated.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ILLUSTRATIVE PAY SCENARIOS As is required under the relevant regulations, the chart below illustrates how much the current Executive Directors could receive under different scenarios in the first year of this policy taking effect 2018.
The assumptions used are as follows: Element Assumptions Fixed Remuneration ll Base salary with effect from 1 January 2018. ll Benefits paid at the same level as in 2017, as shown in the single figure in the Annual Report on Remuneration page 72. ll Pension of 15% of base salary.
Annual Bonus ll Maximum bonus opportunity of 425% of salary for CEO, 250% of salary for CFO, and 200% of salary for Vice Chairman.
ll For below Threshold performance 0% of the maximum is assumed, for MidRange performance 50% of the maximum is assumed and for Maximum performance 100% of the maximum is assumed.
LTIP ll Maximum LTIP opportunity of 375% of salary for CEO, 225% of salary for CFO, and 150% of salary for Vice Chairman.
Executive Directors illustrative pay scenarios m 4,000 3.9m Variable LTIP Variable bonus 41% Fixed remuneration 3,000 2.2m 46% 36% 1.9m 2,000 38% 41% 1.1m 42% 32% 1,000 0.7m 35% 32% 0.5m 0.5m 0.4m 13% 26% 43% 100% 23% 0.2m 100% 33% 20% 34% 100% 40% 25% 0 BelowMid-Range Maximum BelowMid-Range Maximum BelowMid-Range Maximum Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer Vice Chairman Maarten Slendebroek Charlotte Jones Edward Bonham Carter The illustrative pay scenario charts above are not directly comparable with the numbers from the single figure table on page 72.
This graph illustrates the grant value of LTIP awards, discounted by the expected level of payout under a below Threshold, Midrange or Maximum performance scenario.
The illustrative scenarios do not take in to account any share price movement over the course of the performance period, whereas under the single figure table, LTIP awards are calculated based on their value at vesting.
65 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Provides an element of fixed remuneration Base salaries are generally reviewed annually and take into There is no defined monetary maximum.
For the Policy period, the N A which reflects the size and scope of the account a range of factors, including: annual salary increases for incumbent Executive Directors will be role and the calibre of the individual.
limited to the average salary increases for other employees.
ll size and scope of the role: Increases for any new Executive Directors may be made in certain ll skills, performance and experience of the individual: circumstances such as a significant change in the scale, scope or ll market competitiveness: responsibility of a role: or significant market movements.
ll wider market and economic conditions: and The annual base salaries for 2017 and 2018 for each Executive ll the level of increases in the wider employee population.
Director are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Provides individuals with market competitive Payments are made at a consistent level to all UK employees, 15% of salary.
Supports recruitment either into a pension plan for example, into a defined and retention of highcalibre people to contribution plan or some other arrangement which the deliver the business strategy.
Committee considers to have the same economic benefit or delivered as a cash allowance of the same equivalent cost to the Company.
Benefits Provides individuals with market aligned Benefits are provided on a consistent basis to all UK employees.
There is no defined maximum.
The value of other benefits will vary N A benefits.
Typical benefits include: private medical insurance, life yearonyear, depending on factors such as the third party assurance, dependants pension and an income protection provider charges and market conditions.
They are set at a level scheme to cover longterm illness.
the Committee considers reasonable in the context of the local jurisdiction and the individuals circumstances.
Annual bonus and The annual bonus rewards corporate The Company operates a balanced scorecard approach across Individual bonus limits inclusive of any DBP award, expressed as Measures and weightings are set by the Committee at the start Deferred Bonus performance and the achievement of a range of metrics.
a percentage of salary, apply per role as follows: of each performance year and will be disclosed prospectively in Plan DBP stretching strategic and personal objectives.
our Annual Report on Remuneration.
Under the balanced ll 425% for the Chief Executive Officer: At the beginning of each performance year, the Committee scorecard approach, the following will also apply: The DBP provides a deferral element in the agrees a range of targets for each metric.
Multiple factors are ll 250% for the Chief Financial Officer: and form of Jupiter shares.
This provides a considered in setting targets, including the Board approved At least 75% of the annual bonus award will be based on ll 200% for the Vice Chairman.
strong link to longterm and sustainable budget, market expectations, prior year achievement, strategic corporate quantitative measures.
No more than 25% of the value creation and reinforces retention.
focus and priorities, as well as the wider economic landscape.
annual bonus award will be based on individual and strategic measures.
Clawback and malus provisions apply, to During the year, the Committee monitors performance against mitigate actions and behaviours outside of these targets.
All variable compensation is subject to a risk and compliance Jupiters risk appetite.
assessment, under which payments can be reduced, including to After the year end, annual bonus awards are determined based zero.
on actual performance against the balanced scorecard.
The overall outcome is not formulaic: the Committee applies a level Actual performance, target ranges for objective measures and of judgement to ensure the payout levels reflect both individual commentary for strategic and individual measures will be performance and the experience of shareholders for the year.
disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
50% of the non deferred bonus is delivered in shares, subject to a six month holding period.
Under the DBP, 50% of the total bonus is deferred into shares, vesting annually in equal tranches over three years, and subject to an additional six month holding period.
All-employee Jupiter encourages employee share Under the Sharesave plan, employees enter into a three or five Under the Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan, maximums are as N A share plans ownership and operates an HMRC year savings contract and are granted linked options over prescribed by HMRC from time to time.
approved Sharesave plan and an HMRC shares in the Company.
Executive The Share Incentive Plan awards take the form of shares in the Directors are eligible to participate in both Company acquired by employees from pretax salary in plans on the same basis as other UK conjunction with matching shares awarded.
66 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Provides an element of fixed remuneration Base salaries are generally reviewed annually and take into There is no defined monetary maximum.
67 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures LTIP Provides longterm reward with awards The revised rules for the LTIP are being put forward for Individual LTIP limits, expressed as a percentage of salary, apply Performance measures applicable to 100% of any LTIP award, made on an annual basis.
shareholder approval at our 2018 AGM.
A summary of the main per role in respect of any one financial year as follows: weightings and target ranges are set by the Committee at the features of this plan are set out below.
start of each performance period and will be disclosed Encourages longterm outperformance and ll 375% for the Chief Executive Officer: prospectively in our Annual Report on Remuneration.
At the beginning of the year, the Committee will select the ll 225% for the Chief Financial Officer: and following will also apply: relevant performance measures and targets, as well as the Clawback and malus provisions apply, to ll 150% for the Vice Chairman.
applicable weighting for each measure.
ll For each performance measure, no more than 25% of the mitigate actions and behaviours outside of maximum will vest for achievement of the Threshold Jupiters risk appetite.
LTIP awards will vest a minimum of three years from the date of performance level and 100% of the maximum for achievement grant with performance normally measured over a period of at of the Maximum performance level.
least three financial years, subject to continued employment and ll In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.
retains the discretion to vary or replace a performance Awards will be subject to an additional twoyear postvesting condition if an event occurs that means a performance holding period, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
condition has ceased to be appropriate, provided that any varied or new performance condition is, in its opinion, not more or less difficult to satisfy.
All variable compensation is subject to a risk and compliance assessment, under which payments can be reduced, including to zero.
In addition, the LTIP is subject to an underlying business performance underpin.
The Committee will compare the vesting outcome for LTIP awards against shareholder and client experience over the same performance period.
Minimum Ensures longterm interests of Executive Executive Directors should build up a minimum level of Individual minimum shareholding requirements, expressed as a N A shareholding Directors are sufficiently aligned to those of shareholding in the Company within five years of appointment percentage of salary, apply per role as follows: requirements shareholders.
This is monitored by the Committee to ensure ll 300% for the Chief Executive Officer: Executives make sufficient progress towards the required target.
ll 200% for the Chief Financial Officer: and ll 200% for the Vice Chairman.
LEGACY PAYMENTS The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before our 2014 AGM the date the Companys first shareholderapproved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholderapproved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
COMMON AWARD TERMS Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this report may: a be granted as conditional share awards or nilcost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect.
Alternatively, if regulations so require, awards may also be granted over fund units, in which case, references to Jupiter shares in this Policy would also include fund units: b have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: c incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vest up to the time of vesting or where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: d be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and e be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
NEWLY APPOINTED DIRECTORS In the event another Executive Director role is created for the Company in future, the maximum variable opportunities expressed as a percentage of salary for the new position under the Annual Bonus and LTIP will not exceed the percentages shown for the CEO in the summary table above.
68 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures LTIP Provides longterm reward with awards The revised rules for the LTIP are being put forward for Individual LTIP limits, expressed as a percentage of salary, apply Performance measures applicable to 100% of any LTIP award, made on an annual basis.
69 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT POLICY The policy terms, effective dates and unexpired terms of the current NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment are summarised below: Provision Details Term Up to three years from the date of appointment or renewal date.
Unexpired term as at 31 December 2017 ll 2 years and 8 months for Liz Airey.
ll 2 years and 6 months for Jonathon Bond.
ll 2 months for Polly Williams.
ll 4 months for Bridget Macaskill.
ll 1 years and 4 months for Lorraine Trainer.
ll 1 years and 7 months for Karl Sternberg.
ll 2 years and 9 months for Roger Yates.
Notice period Three months written notice from either party.
Date of letters of appointment ll 13 February 2018 for Liz Airey.
ll 20 July 2017 for Jonathon Bond.
ll 16 May 2017 for Polly Williams.
ll 20 July 2017 for Bridget Macaskill.
ll 20 July 2017 for Lorraine Trainer.
ll 16 May 2017 for Karl Sternberg.
ll 10 October 2017 for Roger Yates.
Termination arrangements No provisions for compensation on early termination, other than those provided by the position under law.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS POLICY The policy terms and effective dates of the current Executive Directors service agreements are summarised below: Provision Details Term Not fixed Notice period Six months written notice from either party, during which period salary and benefits will be provided but no contractual entitlement to any bonus payment will accrue or arise.
Service agreement dates ll 1 June 2010 for Edward Bonham Carter.
ll 30 March 2012 for Maarten Slendebroek.
ll 12 May 2016 for Charlotte Jones.
In the event that compensation for early termination is payable, the Committees policy is to seek to keep such compensation to an appropriate level.
There are no specific provisions in the service agreements providing for compensation payable by the Company on termination without cause or on a change of control of the Company.
Entitlement to benefits such as pension contributions and private medical insurance will not continue after termination of employment.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Senior Independent Director status: the maximum amount permissible under FEES POLICY and the Companys Articles of Association.
NonExecutive Director fee levels are The fees are currently paid in cash, but In any given year, a time commitment normally reviewed annually.
The current the Board retains the flexibility to pay significantly in excess of that annual fees comprise the following some or all of the fees in shares.
expected at the start of the year.
elements: Reasonable business expenses are reimbursed or settled on behalf of The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually ll Basic fees NonExecutive Directors and any tax and comprises an allinclusive fee.
arising in respect of the reimbursement ll Additional fees may also apply in Fees are set to reflect the time or settlement of such expenses may also respect of: commitment and skills and experience be settled by the Company.
Committee membership: required, based on an appropriate level Committee Chairmanship in addition against the market, and will not exceed to the membership fee : 70 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Implementation in 2017 ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE subsidiaries Code Staff for the made under such schemes: The Committees role and responsibilities purposes of the FCA Remuneration ll reviewing the design of all share include: Code, Alternative Investment Fund incentive plans and deferred bonus Managers Directive AIFMD and ll determining the overarching policy for arrangements for approval by the Undertakings for Collective Investment the remuneration of the Groups Board and, if applicable, in Transferable Securities UCITS employees, ensuring it is structured in shareholders.
For any such plans, disclosures: a way that rewards individual and determining each year whether corporate performance and is aligned ll determining the Chairmans fees and awards will be made, and if so, the with appropriate risk and compliance the total individual remuneration overall amount of such awards, the standards and the longterm interests package of each member of the eligibility criteria for such awards and of shareholders, clients and other Executive Committee and each the performance targets attaching to stakeholders: individual identified as Code Staff: those awards, taking into account future risks: and ll determining the overall size of the ll for Executive Directors and Executive annual variable compensation pool Committee members, overseeing the ll overseeing any major changes in and the total compensation ratio, setting of objectives for, and employee benefit structures taking into account all relevant assessing the extent to which each throughout the Group.
factors including the performance of individual has met, their individual COMMITTEE MEMBERS the business, the impact on liquidity performance targets for incentive and the Groups capital base, the awards: Bridget Macaskill Chairman Groups profitability, risk, compliance ll approving the design of, determining and any constraints on total Lorraine Trainer the targets for, and monitoring the remuneration spend: operation of, any performance Liz Airey ll determining and reviewing annually related pay schemes operated by the Jonathon Bond individuals who may be considered to Group, ensuring appropriate links exist Roger Yates have a material impact on the risk between risk and reward, and profile of Jupiter and relevant approving the total annual payments OVERVIEW OF ACTIVITIES IN 2017 The following regular agenda items were considered during the scheduled Committee meetings which took place during 2017: Feb Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec Remuneration policy and disclosures Review of remuneration policy Directors Remuneration Report Risk and reward Input from Risk and Compliance Review of risk checkpoints prior to variable compensation pool approval Annual remuneration discussions Bonus and LTIP pool Individual performance and remuneration outcomes LTIP performance testing Allocation of LTIP awards Setting individual objectives Minimum shareholding testing External market Shareholder trends and feedback Governance developments Market trends Benchmarking data Regulatory Internal Audit of Remuneration Policy Code Staff identification CRD III, UCITS V and AIFMD Remuneration Policy Statement Committee remit and effectiveness Terms of reference review Selfevaluation In addition to the scheduled meetings set out above, the Committee held additional meetings during 2017 in relation to the Directors Remuneration Policy review.
71 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2017 AND 2016 REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION 1 Maarten Slendebroek Charlotte Jones Edward Bonham Carter 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 A.
Annual bonus Annual bonus: Delivered in cash 513 1,090 200 190 80 214 Delivered in shares vesting immediately with six month holding period 512 200 80 Delivered in shares vesting after three years 1,025 660 400 60 160 76 4 Total bonus 2,050 1,750 800 250 320 290 C. Pay for the performance year Sub-total A B 2,336 2,040 1,085 343 497 473 5 D. Vesting of LTIP awards For performance in multi-year periods: 6 2013 award 20132016 168 7 2014 award 20142016 229 69 8 2013 award 20132017 327 9 2015 award 20152017 1,141 285 Total value of LTIP vesting 1,468 397 285 69 E. Other 10 Joiner Plan Award 400 11 BuyOut Award 744 12 Sharesave 1 Total other 0 0 744 400 0 1 Total remuneration C D E 3,804 2,437 1,829 743 782 543 1 2016 figures for Charlotte Jones reflect the period served as Chief Financial Officer from 5 September 2016.
2 Comprised of private medical insurance and reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and payment of any tax arising.
3 R epresents employer pension contributions and or cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
There are no defined benefit arrangements.
Employees with registered pension protection or those impacted by the Tapered Annual Allowance may elect to have some or all of their pension contributions paid instead as a cash allowance, after deducting an amount equal to the cost of employer national insurance on such cash payments.
The pension amounts in the single figure table may therefore be less than 15% of the salary.
4 T hese amounts have been determined by the Remuneration Committee based on performance against the relevant annual bonus performance measures in respect of the relevant year.
5 T he value of the LTIP awards vesting is based on the Remuneration Committees determination of performance against the relevant LTIP performance measures across prior multiyear performance periods.
6 T he value of the 2013 LTIP award vesting in 2017 has been restated based on a share price on the vesting date 4 April 2017 of 4.36 and vesting due to performance of 49%.
Note that this award represents a buyout award for Maarten Slendebroek for awards forfeited from a previous employer.
7 T he value of the 2014 LTIP award vesting in 2017 has been restated based on a share price on the vesting date 3 April 2017 of 4.26 and vesting due to performance of 41%.
8 E stimated value of the 2013 LTIP award vesting in 2018 based on 70.3% vesting due to performance and average closing share price over the period 1 October to 31 December 2017 of 5.93 the actual vesting date is 4 April 2018.
9 E stimated value of the 2015 LTIP award vesting in 2018 based on 74.9% vesting due to performance and average closing share price over the period 1 October to 31 December 2017 of 5.93 the actual vesting date is 27 March 2018.
Estimated values of the 2015 LTIP award are not included for John ChatfeildRoberts and Philip Johnson as neither were Executive Directors at the end of the performance period in relation to this award.
For transparency, the estimated values of the 2015 LTIP award vesting in 2018 based on 74.9% vesting due to performance and average closing shareprice over the period 1 October to 31 December 2017 5.93 is 570,556 for John ChatfeildRoberts and 237,732 for Philip Johnson.
10 J oiner Plan Award for Charlotte Jones granted in 2016 not subject to performance conditions, vesting 50% on 31 January 2018, 50% on 31 January 2019.
This award represents part of a buyout of awards forfeited from a previous employer.
Further details are on page 88.
11 This amount for Charlotte Jones represents cash payments delivered to her as part of the buyout of awards forfeited from a previous employer.
The payments mirror identical cash awards that would have been payable on the same date from her previous employer.
These details were previously disclosed on page 75 of Jupiters 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
12 Figure for Edward Bonham Carter represents a cash payment in lieu of special dividends, in line with treatment for all other employees.
72 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED VARIABLE PAY AWARDS FOR 2017 account the Groups performance.
The compensation ratio to be at a low to PERFORMANCE pool for 2017 was first assessed as a mid 30% level over the medium term, 1 proportion of adjusted available profit.
although they may differ from these Outline of approach Consistent with the approach of prior levels in any particular year.
Variable pay awards for 2017 years, the pool awarded for 2017 was performance have been determined by Considering these aspects together, the kept below 27.5% of adjusted available the Committee using the following Committee determined a variable profit.
Jupiters adjusted available profit process: compensation pool for 2017 of 73.8m for 2017 was 275.8m, compared with an 1 2016: 59.3m.
This resulted in a variable available profit of 277.4m 2016: ll Determine a Groupwide variable compensation expense of 82.5m 2016: 232.4m and 236.0m respectively.
This compensation pool, expressed as a 66.6m, a variable compensation ratio meant that for 2017 the pool was kept percentage of Jupiters adjusted of 29.7% and a total compensation ratio below 75.9m 2016: 63.9m.
available profit, with appropriate of 33.4%.
consideration of the checkpoints The next step was to evaluate the pool detailed on page 89 and the The Remuneration Committee concluded in the financial reporting context.
This that the increase in variable Companys resulting variable and total considers the accounting treatment for remuneration expense yearonyear compensation ratios.
the pool and resulting variable remained balanced with the increase in compensation expense to be recognised ll Assess corporate and individual the proportion paid as dividend to in 2017.
As illustrated in the graphic performance for the Executive shareholders.
Jupiters approach to the below, the variable compensation Directors.
distribution of value is further explained expense is determined by the nature and ll Determine bonuses and LTIP awards in the Strategic Report on pages 12, 26 extent of bonus awarded in 2017 as well for the individual Executive Directors and 27. as deferred awards including LTIP out of the pool.
Bonus awards are made in prior years.
It also includes determined using the balanced Jupiter has altered its remuneration national insurance charges levied on scorecard of corporate, strategic and structure for other employees from 2017 Jupiter in relation to variable individual performance measures as onwards in line with regulatory and other compensation.
The national insurance described below.
LTIP awards granted market developments.
These changes charge relating to share based in 2018 will be granted under the new include increasing the proportion of compensation is impacted by movements remuneration policy and subject to the overall variable compensation which is in the Jupiter share price.
The 42% relevant performance criteria as deferred, as well as altering the vesting appreciation in the share price described on page 83. profile of deferred bonuses from three experienced in 2017 had a more year cliff vesting to equal tranche vesting significant impact on the national Determining the variable over three years.
Combined, these insurance charges than in the prior year.
compensation pool adjustments have various implications on In addition, the Committee assessed the The variable compensation pool is Jupiters variable compensation expense total compensation expense which determined so that it is appropriate and and are explained further in the financial includes the fixed component of affordable in the context of Jupiters review section on page 28. remuneration as well as variable.
We aim to balance Under the new policy, in future years the and align the interests of our staff and The Committee assessed whether the Remuneration Committee will increase its our shareholders.
As a result, variable overall variable and total compensation focus on the variable and total compensation is constrained on an 1 ratios as reported in the financial review compensation ratios in determining aggregate basis.
on page 28 were within an appropriate variable compensation spend.
In line with prior year disclosures, The variable compensation pool is 1 we expect the variable compensation Available profit, adjusted available profit, variable determined each year by compensation ratio, total compensation ratio, ratio to remain at a mid to high 20% recommendation of the Remuneration underlying EPS and adjusted EBITDA are all underlying performance measures defined on page 31. level over the medium term and the total Committee to the Board taking into Bridge from variable compensation pool to variable compensation expense Employers Expense relating NI and levies Constraint of to LTIP and 27.5% deferred bonus Variable from prior years compensation Recognised as LTIP Variable expense variable compensation Deferred awards Compensation expense in future years Pool 82.5m 73.8m Deferred awards Expense from current year Cash bonus variable compensation pool Value to employees Expense to the company 73 26.7% of adjusted available profit 29.7% of available profit Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED Assessing corporate financial and diversification performance The following section sets out Jupiters actual performance against target for the primary measures relating to profitability, flows, investment outperformance and diversification, which together comprised 75% of the bonus metrics for 2017.
Threshold Target Maximum Actual Performance metric Primary measure performance performance performance performance Commentary 1 Profitability Adjusted EBITDA 155m 182m 210m 197m Profitability as measured by adjusted EBITDA has increased 15% relative to the prior year, and is 8% ahead of the budget.
Performance was between the target and maximum.
Net revenue rose by 16.5% yearonyear to 410m, while operating expenses rose by 14.5%.
Flows Net sales 800m 2,000m 4,000m 5,478m Net sales inflows significantly exceeded the prior year and the maximum performance figures set.
Investment Proportion of funds 60% 81% Strong investment performance over three outperformance weighted by AUM years, with 81% of assets achieving first or achieving performance of second quartile.
first or second quartile over Only 6% of funds weighted by AUM three years were in the bottom quartile over the same three year period.
Diversification Level and extent of Good progress was achieved during 2017 Asset class split by % diversity of AUM by asset on further diversifying AUM by asset 100 13% 17% 15% class class.
Fixed income and Other categories of assets as a proportion of total AUM 23% 27% grew from 23% to 27%, and from 13% to 80 27% 15% respectively.
Consequently, multiasset and UK equity asset classes saw a 60 21% corresponding reduction in their overall 21% 22% share of AUM, with European equities remaining at 21%.
40 19% 17% 17% 20 24% 20% 17% 0 2016 2017 2017 Actual Target Performance Multi asset UK equities European equities Fixed income Other Level and extent of diversity Strong net inflows in our European AUM by region of AUM by geography markets helped achieve a 50% growth in 100 3% 3% AUM in the region yearonyear.
5% 6% 14% 21% Demand for our fixed income and 80 multiasset strategies led to strong 78% inflows in Hong Kong and Singapore.
70% 60 Together this performance helped Jupiter further diversify its AUM by jurisdiction, 40 with Europe and APAC both growing as a proportion of overall AUM.
20 0 2016 2017 UK Europe APAC RoW 74 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED Assessing corporate strategic performance The following table sets out supporting commentary and information the Committee considered in assessing overall performance in each of the areas of strategic performance identified for 2017.
In conjunction with assessment of individual performance, these measures comprise 25% of the bonus metrics for 2017.
Performance metric Goal Measures Commentary Operating ll Implement significant changes to ll Active project milestones and ll The changes to the platform went live effectiveness the Investment Risk Management timelines as agreed with the Audit by the end of November and delivery and Operations platform to be live and Risk Committee and within the to date has been within project by December 2017. approved budget.
ll Changes to the platform operational ll Work on old system decommissioning by the end of 2017. and replacing temporary manual work arounds necessary to achieve golive is an integral part of the 2018 budget and plans, to optimise the infrastructure investment.
ll Deliver change programmes to ll Achieve project milestones and ll MiFID II project delivered on time for enable regulatory compliance with timelines as agreed with the Audit & MiFID II go live date and within new regulations specifically for Risk Committee and within budget.
MiFID II, EMIR but others as ll Compliance deadlines for new ll EMIR compliance achieved.
regulation achieved and compliance requirements can be achieved on an ongoing basis.
ll Establish and progress the ll Goals, milestones and timelines for ll Overall programme goals and Governance, Risk and Controls this multiyear programme agreed objectives were agreed with the Audit programme to achieve meaningful with the Audit & Risk Committee.
improvements to the Governance ll Demonstrate improvements to the ll Across the business notable examples Risk and Controls environment by governance, risk and control of improvements and strengthening of the end of 2017. environment by the end of 2017 in the Governance Risk and Controls ll Have a programme of work and line with plans.
goals to achieve over a multiyear ll Demonstrate momentum achieved ll Resources in place and or identified horizon to complete the changes and being maintained through the for the programme and budgeted for necessary to the Governance Risk allocation of resources and in the 2018 budget.
and Controls environment in line engagement in accordance with the with the firms strategy, ambitions programme plans and budgets to and developing regulatory ensure that programme goals beyond requirements.
Culture and ll Attract, retain and develop the ll Achieve high levels of staff ll In May 2017, we ran our latest people right talent to support Jupiters engagement as measured through an employee engagement survey.
Results growth whilst adhering to our employee engagement survey to be were strong, with a 78% response rate corporate values and our culture run in 2017. and an overall engagement score of of high performance, individual 87%, 11 points above the financial ll Ensure voluntary staff turnover responsibility and putting clients services average.
Among the top remains below 10%.
results, our people said they had a ll A welldefined succession plan clear understanding of what Jupiter is trying to achieve and how they contribute to it, and a strong sense of treating clients fairly.
ll Voluntary staff turnover for 2017 was 9.7%.
ll By the end of 2017, we had completed succession plans for the top three layers of the workforce.
75 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED Assessing individual performance The following table sets out supporting commentary and information the Committee referenced in assessing individual performance of the Executive Directors.
Executive Director Commentary and discussion Maarten As Chief Executive Officer, Maarten led Jupiter to deliver a strong performance in 2017.
He ensured the Slendebroek, necessary work for Jupiters longterm success was carried out and the strength of its culture was maintained.
Chief Executive The year saw excellent investment performance for clients and strong positive net sales growth, particularly Officer internationally.
This was in line with the corporate strategy to increase diversity of client, geography and product.
The consequence was robust financial performance for shareholders.
Strategic decisions to support Jupiters longterm growth were made.
Changes to the pricing and the cost structure of products which will benefit clients were announced early in the year and the necessary work to implement these in 2018 was carried out.
Similarly, planning for potential changes due to Brexit was undertaken.
Key operational projects to meet regulatory change and provide scalable operational excellence were achieved as planned.
Continued progress was made on the acquisition of talent, including fund managers and key functional roles to support Jupiters future success.
Charlotte Jones, In her first full year as Chief Financial Officer, Charlotte made significant steps in improving and strengthening Chief Financial Jupiters financial model, including a strongly led and well executed process for developing Jupiters 2018 Officer financial plan.
An efficiently managed corporate budget and strong cost discipline by Charlotte in a year which also saw a heavy level of investment in Jupiters operating platform and recruitment, contributed to a year on year 15% increase in underlying PBT and a 16% increase in underlying EPS.
Charlotte has also evolved Jupiters corporate strategic and shareholder engagement capabilities through the recruitment of a Head of Corporate Development and Communications.
Edward Bonham Edward has continued to provide a valuable contribution to Jupiter in his role as Vice Chairman.
He has Carter, served as a successful and effective representative for the Company at a number of key external events, Vice Chairman engaging with many industry and trade bodies helping to further promote and build Jupiters brand.
Internally, Edward has lead and engaged the Board heavily in developing Jupiters environmental, social and governance agenda, as well as drawing on his experience as fund manager by contributing to the recruitment of talent into our front office.
76 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED Determining individual Executive ll Corporate quantitative and financial Determining individual Executive Director 2017 annual bonuses performance was significantly Director 2018 LTIP awards The 2017 annual bonus awards have improved in 2017 relative to the prior The 2018 LTIP awards for Executive been determined by the Committee year, with profits, net sales and three Directors will be granted under the under the framework of the existing 2017 year investment outperformance all proposed new remuneration policy, policy, based on a holistic assessment of performing better.
subject to it and the new plan rules the performance conditions outlined receiving appropriate approval from ll Both shareholders and clients saw a above, the shareholder and client shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The 2018 positive experience for the year, experience in the year and an LTIP award values and performance through an increase in dividends, share assessment of risk and compliance metrics are discussed in detail on page price growth and strong levels of underpins.
For the CEO and CFO, the proposed investment outperformance over the Executive Directors are greater in 2018 grant values are less than the three year period.
absolute terms in 2017 than in 2016, individual maximums permissible under ll There were no risk or regulatory which reflects the following: the new policy to reflect the transitional compliance issues at a Group or nature of the remuneration structure for individual level for which the 2017 and 2018.
Committee considers it appropriate to make any variable compensation adjustments.
Maarten Slendebroek, Charlotte Jones, Edward Bonham Carter, 2017 Annual bonus awards Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Vice Chairman Annual bonus corporate quantitative 75% 1,537,500 600,000 240,000 Annual bonus strategic and individual 25% 512,500 200,000 80,000 Total 2017 Annual Bonus Award 2,050,000 800,000 320,000 Delivered as upfront cash 512,500 200,000 80,000 Delivered as shares with six month holding period 512,500 200,000 80,000 Deferred into shares after three years 1,025,000 400,000 160,000 Form of variable compensation for CEO The chart below illustrates the proportion of each element of Maarten Slendebroeks pay over the past five years.
This has been calculated using the remuneration amounts from the single figure table.
The 2017 amount therefore includes an assumed value for the share price growth figure using the average share price for the fourth quarter of 2017.
The table demonstrates an increasing proportion of Maartens pay being delivered as variable performance based remuneration, albeit he did not have any vesting LTIP in the 2013 and 2014 figures due to his recent appointment as CEO in March 2014.
Additionally, 2017 shows a greater shift towards deferred compensation, with an increasing proportion of bonus deferred.
For 2017, the cash bonus element also includes the proportion deferred into shares for six months.
Form of variable compensation for Maarten Slendebroek Fixed pay 2017 7% 27%2 27% 6% 13% Cash bonus 2016 12% 45%27% 14% 2% Deferred bonus 2015 11% 48% 29%10% 2% LTIP face value Share price growth 2014 14% 54%32% 2013 19%51% 30% 0 25 50 75 100 77 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED PERFORMANCE CONDITION TESTING FOR 2015 LTIP AWARD, VESTING 27 MARCH 2018 The LTIP award vesting figures for Edward Bonham Carter and Maarten Slendebroek shown in the single total figures on page 72 include LTIP awards due to vest on 27 March 2018, subject to performance conditions measured over a three year period to 31 December 2017.
The performance conditions have been tested and performance against those conditions and the associated level of vesting is outlined below.
Performance condition Performance against the condition over the performance period Proportion of condition vesting Underlying EPS vs index Jupiters underlying EPS grew by 9.0% on an annualised basis.
0% of condition vesting ll 30% vesting for 5% growth in excess of 0.0% of total award The index grew by 8.9% on an annualised basis.
the index: Jupiters annualised underlying EPS growth did not therefore ll 100% vesting for Jupiters underlying EPS exceed the index by 5%.
growth exceeding the index by 10% per annum: and ll Straightline vesting between these points.
Actual net sales against target Jupiters net sales over the performance period were 8.5bn, 100% of condition vesting ll 30% vesting for net sales 80% of target: representing 151% of the 5.6bn target.
25.0% of total award ll 65% vesting for net sales 100% of target: ll 100% vesting for net sales 125% of target: and ll Straightline vesting between these points.
Investment outperformance Jupiters investment performance was such that 80% of 100% of condition vesting Proportion of mutual funds achieving first mutual funds achieved first and second quartile performance 24.9% of total award and second quartile performance over over the performance period, weighted by AUM.
three years, weighted by AUM: ll 25% vesting for 50%: ll 100% vesting for 80%: and ll Straightline vesting between these points.
Strategic goals Significant developments in the management team include 100% of condition vesting ll Developing existing employees and the successful transition and succession of senior fund 25.0% of total award recruiting new talent to provide the managers and senior executives, continued deepening of the performance, products and service senior leadership team, including several promotions to the required by clients.
Executive Committee and hiring of a new Chief Financial Officer, Head of Global Distribution and General Counsel.
ll Broadening the client base in the UK and Over the performance period there have been further internationally.
significant hires in the distribution function both domestic and ll Maintaining an appropriate risk control internationally, product specialists in Fund Management, and and compliance environment.
a growing number of technical experts in support functions.
The Company has recruited a number of fund managers to manage new investment strategies including Asian Income and Emerging Market Debt.
Our business in the UK has been restructured and despite enormous challenges such as RDR, Brexit and an outof favour equity heavy legacy product range, the launch of new products in the past three years has reenergised our domestic business and is now growing vigorously.
The net effect of this turnaround on 2017 alone exceeds 1bn.
The rejuvenated product range allowed Jupiter to make strong progress in the wealth management segment of the UK market which is a growing part of the market, whilst Jupiter held its position in the rapidly consolidating retail market.
Internationally, we have grown in all regions with a singular focus on the wealth management market.
We now have strong distribution partnerships with large institutions in much of continental Europe, where, in some cases, we did not have any relationship at all three years ago.
There have been no major risk or compliance issues over the performance period.
In addition, risk and control processes have been significantly enhanced over the years through the development and implementation of an Enterprise Risk Framework.
Total 74.9% vesting 78 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED PERFORMANCE CONDITION TESTING FOR 2013 LTIP AWARD, VESTING 4 APRIL 2018 The LTIP award vesting figure for Maarten Slendebroek shown in the single total figure on page 72 includes an LTIP award due to vest on 4 April 2018, subject to performance conditions measured over a five year period to 31 December 2017.
Performance condition Performance against the condition over the performance period Proportion of condition vesting Underlying EPS vs index Jupiters underlying EPS grew by 12.5% on an annualised 0% of condition vesting ll 30% vesting for 5% growth in excess of basis.
0.0% of total award the index: The index grew by 8.6% on an annualised basis.
ll 100% vesting for Jupiters underlying EPS Jupiters annualised underlying EPS growth did not therefore growth exceeding the index by 10% per exceed the index by 5%.
annum: and ll Straightline vesting between these points.
Actual net sales against target Jupiters net sales over the performance period were 81% of condition vesting ll 30% vesting for net sales 80% of target: 10.5bn, representing 111% of the 9.4bn target.
20.3% of total award ll 65% vesting for net sales 100% of target: ll 100% vesting for net sales 125% of target: and ll Straightline vesting between these points.
Investment outperformance Jupiters investment performance was such that 81% of 100% of condition vesting Proportion of mutual funds achieving first mutual funds achieved first and second quartile 25.0% of total award and second quartile performance over performance over the performance period, weighted by three years, weighted by AUM: AUM.
ll 25% vesting for 50%: ll 100% vesting for 80%: and ll Straightline vesting between these points.
Strategic goals Three of the five years in the performance period for this 100% of condition vesting ll Developing existing employees and award overlap with the 2015 LTIP on the previous page.
25.0% of total award recruiting new talent to provide the Therefore the commentary regarding performance against performance, products and service strategic goals for the 2015 LTIP is applicable here as well.
In addition, new offices were opened in Hong Kong and ll Broadening the client base in the UK and Frankfurt in 2013, in combination with the hiring of a Head internationally.
of Asia Pacific and Head of Germany, Sweden and Austria to strengthen Jupiters distribution capabilities in these ll Maintaining an appropriate risk control regions.
A new senior fund manager started with Jupiter in and compliance environment.
2013 to run the Groups absolute return strategy.
2013 also saw growth in our nonUK presence with AUM growing by 39% during the year.
In absolute terms the UK IFA channel grew by 1.7bn.
Total 70.3% vesting 79 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE CONTINUED EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the Boards prior approval.
During the year Edward Bonham Carter served as a NonExecutive Director of Land Securities Group plc, for which he was paid fees of 80,000 which he retains.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE No payments were made to Directors for loss of office during 2017.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS Two Directors, John ChatfeildRoberts and Philip Johnson, stepped down from the Board during 2016.
No payments as a Director were made to either of these, or any other, former Director during 2017.
However, John and Philips unvested LTIP awards continue to be subject to performance condition testing.
Additionally, John continues to be employed by Jupiter in his role as Head of Strategy for the Independent Funds Team.
Full details regarding John and Philips departure from the Board were made in the 2016 and 2015 Remuneration reports respectively.
3 Benefits comprise reimbursement of reasonable travel expenses incurred in the performance of duties and the payment of any tax arising.
80 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Implementation in 2018 The new Policy reflects changes in best practice and regulatory and investor remuneration guidelines, including the introduction of capped individual variable incentives and a rebasing of fixed pay.
The following section provides an overview as to how each element of the Policy will be applied in 2018.
BASE SALARY Salaries for Executive Directors will no longer be capped and instead will be set at a market rate which is considered appropriate to Jupiters size and the nature of each role.
The salaries for Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2018 are as follows: ll Maarten Slendebroek: 425,000 2017: 250,000 : ll Charlotte Jones: 325,000 2017: 250,000 : and ll Edward Bonham Carter: 160,000 2017: 160,000.
Increases will be applied retrospectively from 1 January 2018, subject to shareholder approval of the Policy at the 2018 AGM.
ANNUAL BONUS Annual bonuses in respect of 2018 inclusive of any deferred bonus award will be subject to the following individual caps as a percentage of base salary: ll Maarten Slendebroek: 425%: ll Charlotte Jones: 250%: and ll Edward Bonham Carter: 200%.
The performance measures for the 2018 annual bonus will be set within the following balanced scorecard.
75% of these measures will be corporate quantitative financial measures, with clearly determined Threshold, OnTarget and Maximum goals.
The remaining objectives will be strategic and individual measures.
Determination of bonus amounts is not formulaic: in addition to reviewing each of the performance measures, the Committee will take a holistic view of the overall performance of the Company for the year to ensure that any bonus amounts appropriately reflect the experience of stakeholders.
Where performance measures produce an outcome which does not align with that of stakeholders, the Committee may exercise its discretion as it considers appropriate.
2018 Balanced scorecard Area Metric Performance measures Corporate Profitability ll Measured through underlying Profit Before Tax quantitative 75% Flows ll Measured through net inflows Investment ll Measured through the proportion of mutual funds achieving first or second quartile outperformance performance and the proportion of separate account assets beating their benchmarks weighted by AUM ll Measured over one year 25% weighting and three years 75% weighting Strategic and Diversification ll Level of diversification of the products, geography and client base individual 25% Talent, culture and ll Improving Jupiters talent management strategies and programmes to ensure we values attract, develop and retain the right skills ll Reinforce Jupiters culture and values Optimising the ll Successful utilisation of new technology and increased efficiency to create greater benefits of scalability infrastructure investment Distribution expansion ll Achievement of increased productivity progression from the expansion of the efficiency international distribution network Personal performance ll Achievement against specific personal performance objectives Underpin Risk and regulatory ll The Committee considers the checkpoints set out on page 89 when exercising its compliance judgement to determine the appropriate variable compensation pool, at a Group level ll The Committee also receives an annual report on internal control and risk management factors from the Head of Risk and the Compliance Director to consider when assessing appropriate awards, at an individual level ll Any risk and compliance factors corporate or individual has the potential to reduce variable compensation, including to zero Targets for each performance measure will be set by the Committee in line with the framework described on page 82.
The Committee considers more specific details of the 2018 performance measures and targets to be commercially sensitive.
Further details of the targets and weightings for each of these measures and performance against each will be provided in the 2018 Remuneration Report.
81 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The determination of variable pay awards in relation to 2018 performance will continue to be assessed with the application of judgement, taking into account a holistic assessment of Group and individual performance.
The balanced scorecard, set out in the table above, will allow the Committee to assess performance against key financial and strategic metrics.
The Committees assessment against these metrics and the decision about any variable pay awards will be clearly disclosed to shareholders.
Notwithstanding this structure, in line with the approach taken in 2017, for 2018 the Committee will work to ensure that the Companys variable and total compensation ratios are within appropriate ranges.
The Committee expects the variable compensation ratio to remain at a mid to high 20% level over the medium term, and the total compensation ratio to be at a low to mid 30% level over the mediumterm, although they may differ from these levels in any particular years for the reasons explained on page 28.
In addition to the performance measures outlined above, the Committee considers the checkpoints set out on page 89 when exercising its judgement to determine the overall variable compensation spend for any particular year, and also considers individual risk behaviours when assessing individual awards.
The payment of bonuses for Executive Directors for 2018 will be as follows and is compliant with the relevant remuneration regulations.
This is similar to the payout structure introduced for 2017 bonuses, however the 50% deferred into Jupiter shares for three years will now vest in equal tranches over the deferral period: Proportion of bonus and delivery method 25% 25% 50% ll Delivered as cash.
ll Delivered as deferred Jupiter shares.
ll Immediate vesting, but subject to ll Vesting in equal tranches over three years, subsequent six month post vesting but subject to subsequent six month post holding period.
SETTING BONUS TARGETS AND ASSESSING PERFORMANCE Start of the year set targets ll The Board agrees and sets the budget and financial plan for Jupiter for the performance year ahead.
ll The Committee, in consultation with management, then sets the: Metrics which will be assessed: Mix between corporate quantitative at least 75% and corporate strategic and individual objectives no more than 25% : and Targets for each performance level Threshold, Target and Maximum for quantitative metrics, taking into account the level of stretch in the budget.
ll Annual bonus metrics and weighting will be disclosed prospectively.
During the year monitor performance ll Performance is monitored and evaluated against the metrics throughout the year.
ll The Committee is provided with regular updates from management on performance status and from the Chief Risk Officer on risk and compliance issues.
End of the year assess performance ll The Committee assesses performance and determines the resulting payout in the first instance.
Bonus determination is not formulaic and judgement is applied.
ll In reaching its decision, the Committee considers actual performance quantitative and qualitative against each metric and the target ranges set, i. e. where performance sits between the threshold, target and maximum.
This is then supplemented by the Committee considering the following to ensure they apply appropriate judgement in deciding payouts: Is the level of the overall total and variable compensation spend appropriate?
This includes consideration of the checkpoints on page 89.
Control function input from the Chief Risk Officer and Compliance Director.
The context in which this performance was achieved, having reference to but not limited to shareholder and client experience in the year: risk and compliance underpins: and any clawback or malus events.
After the end of the year disclosure ll Target ranges and actual performance against objective measures will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration, with clear commentary for subjective measures.
ll Commentary will also be provided on how the Committee reached its decisions, including particular challenges and any other factors which were taken in to account.
82 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 LTIP AWARDS LTIP awards will be granted under the new remuneration policy.
These awards will be granted in May 2018, subject to shareholder approval of the new remuneration policy and LTIP rules at the 2018 AGM.
The awards will vest in late March early April 2021 the third anniversary of when the awards would ordinarily have been granted, had the grant not been delayed, subject to the achievement of the stretching performance conditions, as set out in the table below.
The awards will also be subject to a twoyear postvesting holding period in line with the new remuneration policy.
The 2018 LTIP award values will be as follows: ll Maarten Slendebroek: 1,450,000 341% of salary : ll Charlotte Jones: 650,000 200% of salary : and ll Edward Bonham Carter: 240,000 150% of salary These award values reflect the transitional nature of our remuneration structure in 2017 and 2018 and are set accordingly, for the CEO and CFO, below the proposed new individual LTIP award caps.
The 2018 LTIP awards will be subject to the following performance conditions: Proportion of LTIP Performance condition Performance measure EPS Growth Jupiters underlying EPS Proportion of the award subject Jupiters underlying EPS growth must growth over the performance to the EPS performance condition achieve at least 20% growth over the period that will vest 50% performance period Less than 20% growth 0% 40% growth or above 100% Any other percentage Sliding scale between the relevant percentages above Jupiters investment outperformance The proportion of all Jupiters funds weighted by AUM achieving above 50% median performance relative to their peer group retail or above benchmark performance institutional Proportion of funds weighted weighted: by AUM achieving above Proportion of the award subject median benchmark to the investment outperformance over the three year period to performance condition that will vest 31 December preceding the 25% Less than 50% 0% vesting date: and 50% 25% 80% or above 100% over the five year period to 31 December preceding the 75% Any other percentage Sliding scale between the relevant vesting date.
percentages above Investment outperformance is critical to Jupiters clients and the Companys longterm success.
Its importance is recognised through its use as a performance measure within the annual bonus scorecard and the LTIP.
Given the longer time horizon over which LTIP assesses performance, both a three and five year outperformance measure is included.
EPS growth is important to shareholders and is the best measure of Jupiters successful execution of its growth strategy.
There is no payout under this performance condition at threshold performance, or where EPS growth is less than 20% over the period.
The target range and vesting schedule for EPS performance between threshold and maximum has been set in line with Jupiters financial plan.
In addition to a risk and compliance assessment, LTIP awards are subject to an underlying business performance underpin.
83 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Jupiter normally reviews NonExecutive Director fees annually.
The NonExecutive Chairman fee was last increased with effect from 1 January 2016 and fees for certain NonExecutive roles were increased from 1 January 2017.
Following the annual review at the end of this year, fees for the NonExecutive Chairman and Chairman of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees have been increased with effect from 1 January 2018 to reflect the increased time commitment and complexity of these roles.
Fees for all other NonExecutive roles remain unchanged for 2018.
2017 annual fee 2018 annual fee Base fee 62,500 62,500 Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 10,000 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee 18,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee 18,000 20,000 Audit and Risk Committee member fee 7,500 7,500 Remuneration Committee member fee 7,500 7,500 NonExecutive Chairman fee all inclusive 225,000 235,000 NonExecutive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses.
The roles and committee responsibilities of the NonExecutive Directors during 2017 were as follows: Director Title Roles and Committee responsibilities Liz Airey Independent Chairman Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee member Jonathon Bond Independent NonExecutive Director Audit and Risk Committee member Senior Independent Director Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Senior Independent Director appointed 1 August 2017 Lorraine Trainer Independent NonExecutive Director and Audit and Risk Committee member Senior Independent Director Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Remuneration Committee Chairman stepped down 30 June 2017 Senior Independent Director stepped down 31 July 2017 Bridget Macaskill Independent NonExecutive Director Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Remuneration Committee Chairman appointed 1 July 2017 Polly Williams Independent NonExecutive Director Audit and Risk Committee Chairman Nomination Committee member Karl Sternberg Independent NonExecutive Director Audit and Risk Committee member Nomination Committee member Roger Yates Independent NonExecutive Director Nomination Committee member appointed 10 October 2017 Remuneration Committee member appointed 10 October 2017 84 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED INFORMATION Unvested ordinary shares Unvested Unvested held at options, vesting options, Ordinary shares 31 December Vested but not subject to vesting subject Total options held at 2017 Total ordinary unexercised performance to performance over ordinary Shareholding 31 December subject to shares held at options at conditions at conditions at shares held at as a 2017 continued 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December percentage 3 Director no restrictions employment 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 of salary Edward Bonham Carter 10,006,921 0 10,006,921 72,985 81,293 186,509 340,787 37,088% Maarten Slendebroek 389,620 0 389,620 0 616,991 994,269 1,611,260 924% Charlotte Jones 0 0 0 0 110,238 118,717 228,955 Liz Airey 45,450 45,450 Jonathon Bond 28,294 28,294 Lorraine Trainer 24,242 24,242 1 Bridget Macaskill 125,000 125,000 Polly Williams 0 0 Karl Sternberg 9,809 9,809 2 Roger Yates 0 0 1 Includes connected persons holding.
2 Joined the Board as a NonExecutive Director on 10 October 2017.
3 The high percentage of shares held by Edward Bonham Carter relates to shares purchased during the period 20072010 while Jupiter was privately owned.
There have been no changes to the above interests between the year end and 26 February 2018 the latest practicable date before the printing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Remuneration Committee has a policy that Executive Directors should maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
The policy in operation for the 2017 performance year provides that the Chief Executive should hold shares in the Company with a value equivalent to at least 300% of base salary, and other Executive Directors a value equivalent to at least 200% of base salary.
Maarten Slendebroek and Edward Bonham Carter both hold shares with a value in excess of 300% of base salary as at 31 December 2017.
Following her appointment to the Board in September 2016, Charlotte Jones is expected to build up her shareholding within the five years following appointment.
The Committee is confident that based on current deferred share awards that vested in January 2018 and those due to vest in future years as detailed on pages 86 to 88, Charlotte will meet the necessary minimum shareholding level within the expected period.
85 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION DBP OPTIONS OVER JUPITER SHARES Options held at start Options exercised of year Options granted during the year lapsed during the year Options held at end of year Number of Number shares under Number Number of shares option held as of shares of shares under at 1 January 2017 Market Price under under option including April value used to Number option option held as 2017 Special per share determine of shares lapsed exercised at 31 Earliest Latest Year Dividend at date Grant Face value number under during during December exercise exercise 1 2 2 Director granted Adjustment of grant date at award of shares option the year the year 2017 date date Maarten 2014 Slendebroek in respect 3 of 2013 120,799 4.14 120,799 2015 in respect 27 March 27 June of 2014 174,662 4.12 174.662 2018 2018 2016 in respect 01 April 01 July of 2015 201,394 4.09 201,394 2019 2019 2017 in respect 29 March 29 March 29 June of 2016 2017 660,000 4.21 156,706 156,706 2020 2020 Charlotte 2017 Jones in respect 29 March 29 March 29 June of 2016 2017 60,000 4.21 14,246 14,246 2020 2020 Edward 2014 Bonham in respect 4 Carter of 2013 147,060 4.14 147,060 2015 in respect 27 March 27 June of 2014 41,096 4.12 41,096 2018 2018 2016 in respect 01 April 01 July of 2015 22,153 4.09 22,153 2019 2019 2017 in respect 29 March 29 March 29 June of 2016 2017 76,000 4.21 18,044 18,044 2020 2020 1 Outstanding share awards were adjusted by 3.01% as a result of the 7 April 2017 Special Dividend.
2 Average closing share price from three trading days prior to date of grant.
3 Closing share price on date of exercise, 28 April 2017, was 4.75.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 573,795.
4 Closing share price on date of exercise, 6 June 2017, was 4.88.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 717,653.
Key terms: ll no performance measures are attached to options granted under the DBP, although malus provisions may apply see the remuneration policy table for further details : ll no exercise price is payable on the exercise of DBP options: and ll holders of unvested share option awards are not entitled to cash dividend payments as the holders are not the legal owners of the shares.
The Remuneration Committee determined that it was appropriate for holders of share option awards under both the DBP and LTIP schemes to benefit from the 7 April 2017 Special Dividend.
This took place by means of adjusting upwards the number of shares over which options were held by a factor of 3.01% as permitted under the rules of the plans.
This factor is equivalent to the value the holder of a share option award would have received had they been entitled to receive the Special Dividend as a cash payment.
86 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SHARE AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION CONTINUED LTIP Options held at start Options exercised of year Options granted during the year lapsed during the year Options held at end of year Number of shares under option held as at Number 1 January Number Number of shares 2017 of shares of shares under including Market Price under under option April 2017 value per used to Number option option held as Special share at determine of shares lapsed exercised at 31 Earliest Latest Year Dividend date of Grant Face value number under during during December exercise exercise 1 2 2 Director granted Adjustment grant date at award of shares option the year the year 2017 date date Maarten 31 January 31 January 3 Slendebroek 2012 81,765 2.26 81,765 2017 2019 31 January 31 January 2012 84,229 2.26 84,229 2018 2020 04 April 04 April 4 2013 77,282 3.30 38,841 38,441 2017 2019 04 April 04 April 2013 78,452 3.30 78,452 2018 2020 03 April 03 April 5 2014 129,039 4.14 75,205 53,834 2017 2019 27 March 27 March 2015 256,857 4.12 256,857 2018 2020 01 April 01 April 2016 314,680 4.09 314,680 2019 2021 29 March 29 March 29 March 2017 2017 1,450,000 4.21 344,280 344,280 2020 2022 Charlotte 29 March 29 March 29 March Jones 2017 2017 500,000 4.21 118,717 118,717 2020 2022 Edward 02 April 02 April 6 Bonham 2012 46,909 2.39 46,909 2015 2017 Carter 04 April 04 April 2013 56,837 3.30 56,837 2016 2018 03 April 03 April 2014 38,709 4.14 22,561 16,148 2017 2019 27 March 27 March 2015 64,214 4.12 64,214 2018 2020 01 April 01 April 2016 62,936 4.09 62,936 2019 2021 29 March 29 March 29 March 2017 2017 250,000 4.21 59,359 59,359 2020 2022 1 Outstanding share awards were adjusted by 3.01% as a result of the 7 April 2017 Special Dividend.
3 Closing share price on date of exercise, 27 February 2017 was 4.16.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 340,142.
4 Closing share price on date of exercise, 28 April 2017 was 4.75.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 182,595.
5 Closing share price on date of exercise, 28 April 2017 was 4.75.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 255,712.
6 Closing share price on date of exercise, 2 March 2017 was 4.20.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 197,018.
Key terms: ll performance conditions for LTIP awards granted 2012 are underlying EPS, net sales and strategic goals with the exception of Maarten Slendebroeks 2012 LTIP awards, where no performance conditions are attached as part of buyout arrangements.
For LTIP awards granted from 2013 onwards, the performance conditions are: underlying EPS, net sales, investment outperformance and strategic goals.
These performance conditions are measured over the period 1 January in the year of grant to 31 December in the year prior to vesting and the targets are consistent with those for the 2013 and 2015 awards as shown on pages 78 and 79: ll an exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of LTIP options: and ll the number of shares under award were adjusted as a result of the 7 April 2017 Special Dividend, as described under the DBP share table above.
87 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION CONTINUED JOINER PLAN Options exercised Options held at start during of year Options granted during the year the year Options held at end of year Number Number Number of shares Market of shares of shares under value Price under under option per used to Number option option as at share at Face determine of shares exercised as at 31 Earliest Latest Year 1 January date of Grant value at number under during December exercise exercised Director granted 2017 grant date award of shares option the year 2017 date date Charlotte Jones 2016 47,996 4.29 47,996 31 January 31 January 2018 2020 2016 47,996 4.29 47,996 31 January 31 January 2019 2021 Key terms: ll the options granted under the Joiner Plan are oneoff awards made as a buyout of awards foregone by Charlotte Jones on resignation from her previous employer, in order to join Jupiter.
To match the terms of the awards foregone, no performance conditions are attached to the options granted under the Joiner Plan: ll an exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of Joiner Plan options: ll the options granted under the Joiner Plan will not be settled with newly issued shares: and ll malus and clawback provisions apply to the Joiner Plan awards.
SIP Awards held at start Awards released of year Awards granted during the year forfeited during the year Awards held at end of year Number Number of shares Price Number Number of Number of shares subject to Market used to of shares shares of shares subject to award as at value Face determine granted released forfeited award as at 1 January per share Award value number of during the during the during the 31 December Earliest 1 1 Director 2017 at award date at award shares year year year 2017 vesting date Maarten Slendebroek 462 3.89 462 02 May 2017 Edward 457 3.28 457 02 May 2016 Bonham Carter 462 3.90 462 02 May 2017 1 3.50 1 02 October 2017 1 Market price on the date of purchase of SIP shares.
88 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk and reward CHECKPOINTS at Jupiter Capital base and liquidity Can Jupiter afford the proposed variable compensation spend?
DISCUSSION ll Sufficient liquidity to make payments?
The Committee gives careful consideration ll Consider impact on Jupiters capital base.
to the linkage between risk and reward to ensure the desired behaviours and culture Request and consider input from the Chief Financial Officer.
This includes ensuring the reward structures are Underlying financial performance consistent with and promote sound and Does Jupiters underlying financial performance support the proposed variable compensation spend?
effective risk management, and ensuring remuneration outturns appropriately ll Consider performance against financial KPIs listed in the Annual Report.
reflect the risk profile and behaviours of ll Is there any reason to believe the financial results are not a fair reflection of underlying the Group and each individual.
demonstrated through a variety of reward Request and consider input from the Audit and Risk Committee.
features and processes that ensure alignment to risk considerations Risk throughout the organisation.
For example: Does Jupiters risk profile and risk management support the variable compensation spend?
ll When assessing the overall variable ll Consideration of the Enterprise Risk Management report.
compensation spend as described on ll Are all risks being suitably monitored and managed?
Have there been any material page 82, the Committee considers a failures of risk management or any near misses in the year?
number of checkpoints, as described ll Consider whether profit reflects current and future risks and timing and likelihood of in the checkpoints chart on the right future revenues.
Request and consider input from the Head of Risk and the Audit and Risk Committee.
ll Assessment of individual performance includes consideration of a scorecard Compliance of financial and nonfinancial metrics.
Have there been any material compliance breaches in the year?
This ensures that the way in which ll Are any adjustments required?
performance has been achieved is ll Consideration of any significant compliance breaches and or near misses.
taken into account, for example, in ll Consideration of any fines received in the year and any ongoing regulatory terms of risk and repeatability.
employees there is consideration of Request and consider input from the Compliance Director.
conduct, performance against risk and compliance criteria, ensuring there is Commercial risk adjustment at an individual level.
Are there any commercial drivers to support adjustments to the variable ll All employees with bonuses of over compensation spend?
50,000 have a portion of bonus ll Consider the market for talent and whether the spend would likely result in any significant deferred into shares and or fund units.
over underpayment against the market.
In total approximately 25% of employees are subject to some kind of Reputational deferral, ensuring their interests are Are there any reputational drivers to support adjustments to the variable aligned to the longterm success of the compensation spend?
Group and with the interest of clients.
ll Has there been any reputational damage to the Group in the year?
ll Shareholding requirements apply to ll Will the proposed variable compensation pool quantum have any adverse reputational Executive Directors and Executive impact on the Group?
Committee members, further enhancing the link to the Groups longterm success.
Variable compensation spend, total and variable compensation ratios approval ll For Executive Directors and Executive Committee members, all variable COMPLIANCE STATEMENT remuneration is subject to malus and This Remuneration Report was During the year Jupiter has been clawback provisions, whereby incentive prepared in accordance with The Large subject to a number of regulations awards may be reduced, withheld or and Mediumsized Companies and including CRD III and also parts of the reclaimed in certain circumstances, Groups Accounts and Reports firm were subject to AIFMD and UCITS including where there has been a Amendment Regulations 2013.
This V. The Committee fulfils all of its material failure of risk management.
report contains both audited and requirements under these regulations In addition to the Compliance Director nonaudited information.
The and ensures that the remuneration and the Audit and Risk Committee information subject to audit is set out in policy adheres to their principles.
The feeding into the process, the Head of the Annual Report on Remuneration Group has followed the requirements of Risk presents a report to the Committee, and is identified accordingly.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
setting out thoughts and assurances around how the remuneration structures and processes support sound and effective risk management.
89 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DILUTION Our policy regarding dilution from employee share awards is to ensure that dilution will be no more than 10% in any rolling 10 year period and no more than 5% from employee share awards granted to Executive Directors of the Company in any rolling 10 year period.
As at 31 December 2017, share awards granted under the DBP, LTIP and Sharesave in the seven and a half years since Jupiters Listing were outstanding over 19.6m shares including 2.2m granted to Executive Directors.
This represented 4.3% 0.5% to Executive Directors of the Companys issued share capital.
Our current intention is to settle all share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2017 with market purchased shares and our ongoing practice is to purchase shares in the market to settle obligations.
No new shares have been issued since Listing in 2010.
Therefore, we are currently operating within the relevant dilution targets by a comfortable margin.
Notwithstanding the target outlined above, as a business exposed to both market shocks and critical people issues, we believe we should retain flexibility to act very quickly to take steps that could increase dilution up to a maximum of 15% on a temporary and shortterm basis, if the Remuneration Committee and Board believe it is clearly in shareholders interests to do so.
If dilution were to exceed 10% in any rolling 10 year period, this would be on an exceptional basis and for a short time period.
The Remuneration report for the relevant year would also contain the necessary justifications for such an outcome.
The Remuneration Committee and Board would ensure that dilution levels returned to within the 10% level in any rolling 10 year period as soon as practicable thereafter.
PAY VS PERFORMANCE Total shareholder return per cent Source: Datastream 550 Jupiter Fund Management plc FTSE 250 500 FTSE 350 General Financial Index 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Jun Sep DecMar Jun SepDec Mar Jun SepDec Mar Jun SepD Dec Mar Jun SepD ec Mar Jun SepD ec Mar Jun Sep DecMar Jun Sep ec 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The chart above shows the Companys share price performance based on total shareholder return, with dividends reinvested net of tax in the period since Listing on 21 June 2010, compared with the movement of the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
These two indices were chosen as the Company is in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index includes UK listed financial stocks, including asset managers.
TABLE OF HISTORIC LEVELS OF CEO PAY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 CEO single figure of total remuneration 000 2,035 1,785 1,634 1,789 2,301 2,716 2,437 3,804 2 3 4 Longterm incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity N A N A N A N A 46% 71% 44% 74% 1 Calculated as Edward Bonham Carters remuneration to 17 March 2014 and Maarten Slendebroeks from 17 March 2014 when he took on the role of CEO, plus the value of Edward Bonham Carters LTIP award vesting based on performance to 31 December 2014.
2 No LTIP awards vested 2010 to 2013 as the first LTIP awards granted to the CEO after Listing were in 2012.
3 Maarten Slendebroek has two separate LTIP awards included in the 2016 single figure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year.
The 44% vesting is a weighted average of the vesting outcomes for both awards combined.
4 Maarten Slendebroek has two separate LTIP awards included in the 2017 single figure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year.
The 74% vesting is a weighted average of the vesting outcomes for both awards combined.
90 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHANGE IN CEO PAY VS EMPLOYEES The percentage change in the CEOs pay defined for these purposes as salary, taxable benefits, cash bonus and DBP awards in respect of the relevant year between 2016 and 2017, and the same information, on an averaged basis, for all employees excluding Executive Directors is shown in the table below: All employees excluding Executive Directors CEO percentage change 2016 to 2017 percentage change 2016 to 2017 Base salary 0% 3% 1 Benefits 0% 0% 2 Bonus including DBP portion 17% 48% 1 Benefits include taxable value of private medical insurance.
2 The significant increase in average bonus for all employees excluding Executive Directors from 2016 to 2017 is partly due to the removal of LTIP awards for a large proportion of employees, and instead the payment of all variable compensation through the annual bonus.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following chart shows the Groups profit after tax, total employee remuneration and dividends declared on ordinary shares for 2017 and 2016.
Additional illustration of how Jupiters available profit is distributed between stakeholders is demonstrated on page 12 of this report.
Profit after tax m Total employee remuneration m Dividend declared m 2016 136.3 2016 102.3 2016 124.5 2017 154.8 14% 2017 116.8 14% 2017 149.2 20% SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table sets out the voting outcomes in respect of the most recent AGM votes on the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Percentage of Percentage of For total votes cast Against total votes cast Withheld Annual Report on Remuneration at 2017 AGM 349,856,989 97.83 7,770,888 2.17 10,678,366 Directors Remuneration Policy at 2017 AGM 327,705,740 90.37 34,938,417 9.63 5,662,106 ADVISERS Deloitte LLP is appointed by the Remuneration Committee as its adviser.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied as to Deloittes independence.
Fees paid to Deloitte for executive remuneration consulting were 128,300 in 2017.
Deloitte also provides advice to the Company relating to regulatory matters.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider that the other advice provided has any impact on Deloittes independence as adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary, HR Director and Head of Reward are invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings to contribute to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer, Compliance Director, Head of Risk and Chief Investment Officer are invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings to provide specific input, where requested.
No individual is present when their remuneration is being discussed.
On behalf of the Board BRIDGET MACASKILL Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2018 91
