72 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION AND ANNUAL STATEMENT It is my pleasure to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Pay philosophy Executive remuneration packages at Meggitt are designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of a high calibre, to recognise the international nature of the Groups business and to reward the directors for delivering value to shareholders through sustainable performance for our customers.
The package aligns with our strategy see below, is clear and transparent, and incentive plans aim to provide all participants with performance metrics which are relevant to their daily work.
The package targets fixed pay at market competitive levels to companies of a similar size and with similar operating characteristics, supplemented by performance-related annual bonuses and an equity-based long term incentive plan designed to reward and incentivise growth.
Paul Heiden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Portfolio Customers Enhance our product and business portfolio Improve customer service Develop differentiated technology Mature CSS LTIP: Innovation targets are measures in the LTIP.
ROCE has LTIP: Organic revenue growth and quality and replaced ROTA for awards in 2018 to better reflect the value of delivery targets.
STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include quality and on time delivery targets, performance of CSS portfolio related activity.
Growth & ROCE Competitiveness Culture Deliver through MPS Build an inclusive and engaged Meggitt Invest in infrastructure and increase productivity Live high performance culture Reduce inventory, footprint & purchased costs STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include measures to improve employee engagement and LTIP: Quality and delivery, programme management, to embed high performance culture.
ROCE, gross margin and inventory improvement targets are measures in the LTIP.
STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include quality, on time delivery, inventory, footprint consolidation and net purchasing costs.
Organic revenue growth and ROCE are performance measures in the LTIP.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 73 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2017 activity The 2016 Directors remuneration report and revised Remuneration Policy were submitted to shareholders for approval at our 2017 AGM, gaining an approval rating of 96.57% and 90.34% respectively.
The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and updated them to reflect the new Executive Committee structure.
We also finalised the effectiveness review of the Committee and Mercer, our advisers, which was carried out using questionnaires and through Committee discussion.
Overall, the ratings for the Committee and Mercer were satisfactory and no significant areas were highlighted for improvement.
We approved awards under the LTIP and confirmed the vesting outcomes of the STIP award for 2016 and LTIP awards made in 2014.
Since the year end, we have approved performance targets for the 2018 STIP and LTIP awards which are detailed in this report, agreed the salaries for the executive directors, the fee for the Chairman, and confirmed the vesting outcome of the 2017 STIP and 2015 LTIP awards.
On 1 January 2018, Tony Wood was appointed as Chief Executive.
His service contract had originally been approved in 2016 when he was appointed as Chief Operating Officer, and so was amended primarily to take account of his new role and increase in salary.
All other benefits except salary remain the same as Mr Wood was already an executive director.
In deciding Mr Woods new salary of 650,000, the Committee took into account the size and responsibilities of the role, Mr Woods extensive industry experience and market data for comparable roles, among other factors.
His salary will not be eligible for an increase in April 2018.
Details of Mr Woods package are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
IFRS 15 and 16 During the year, the Committee has also considered the implications of the new accounting standards IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 on our incentive plans.
In summary, there will be no impact on the STIP, as 2017 targets and actual performance are measured on a consistent basis, prior to these standards being adopted by the Group on 1 January 2018.
2018 STIP targets and actual performance will both reflect the impact of these two new standards.
For the LTIP, the situation is more complex because we measure certain targets over a three-year period but will only have audited numbers on both the old and new basis for 2017.
As a result, the Committee plans to agree restated 2017 LTIP targets during 2018.
The restated targets will be disclosed in the 2018 Directors remuneration report.
The 2016 LTIP targets will not be restated while the 2016 and 2017 out-turn will be available on the old basis, the 2018 new basis numbers will be restated to the old basis using as a guide transitional adjustments made in preparing the 2018 budget.
2017 Group performance Revenue increased by 2%, benefitting from favourable currency movements offset by the impact of M&A in the year.
Organic revenue growth of 2% included 4% growth in civil aerospace and 1% in military, partially offset by continued weakness in energy which reduced by 8%.
Underlying operating profit increased organically by 1%, with benefits from strategic initiatives including supply chain rationalisation, the Meggitt Production System and increased pricing leverage.
This was partly offset by continued headwinds from mix, depreciation, amortisation and growth in new product introduction costs at Meggitt Polymers & Composites.
Underlying EPS increased from 34.8p to 35.3p.
The Committee has determined that the 2015 LTIP award will vest at 18.9% of maximum, reflecting that performance was below threshold for the three multi-year performance conditions relating to EPS, ROTA and organic revenue growth.
However, performance against the annual strategic targets was just above target see page 85.
The 2017 STIP award financial measures have vested at above target for cash and above threshold for profit.
Personal measures for the executive directors were met as detailed on page 84.
The Committee believes that our remuneration policy and approach to implementation remain aligned with our strategy and prevailing market practice.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their continued support.
Paul Heiden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 74 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued 2017 Remuneration at a glance executive directors Remuneration at a glance is a summary of remuneration activity in the year.
For more detailed disclosures and commentary, see the relevant section of the annual report on remuneration, which starts on page 83.
2017 Single total figure of remuneration Mr A Mr S G Mr D R Mr P E Wood Young Webb Green 000 000 000 000 Base salary 460 702 465 375 Taxable benefits 20 30 14 14 Pension 115 351 116 187 STIP 467 716 505 395 LTIP 274 181 146 Total 1,062 2,073 1,281 1,117 2017 STIP outcomes Financial targets Performance targets Vesting for Actual Vesting financial Measure Weighting Threshold Target Stretch performance % salary performance Underlying operating profit 33.3% 384.1m 402.0m 424.6m 395.2m 81.0% 99.7% Free cash flow 33.3% 205.3m 230.3m 255.3m 239.5m 118.4% Overall STIP outcomes Vesting for Vesting for Overall bonus outcomes financial personal performance performance % of Name % of salary % of salary % of salary maximum 000 Mr A Wood 66.4% 35.1% 101.5% 67.7% 467 Mr S G Young 66.4% 35.1% 101.5% 67.7% 716 Mr D R Webb 66.4% 41.7% 108.1% 72.1% 505 Mr P E Green 66.4% 38.5% 104.9% 69.9% 395 2015 LTIP outcomes Overall % vesting Estimated % of Interests Date value Name maximum vesting vesting 000 1 Mr A Wood Mr S G Young 18.9% 50,369 01.04.18 274 Mr D R Webb 18.9% 33,377 01.04.18 181 Mr P E Green 18.9% 26,862 01.04.18 146 1 Mr A Wood was appointed on 1 December 2016 and so did not receive a 2015 LTIP award.
Executive share ownership Shareholding Current guideline Shares shareholding % 2017 owned % 2017 Guideline Name salary outright salary met?
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 75 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION This Directors remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
In this report we describe how the principles relating to directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, are applied in practice.
The Policy report This Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 April 2017 and is effective for a period of three years from that date.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table Base salary Function To attract and retain talent by ensuring base salaries are competitive in the relevant talent market.
Operation Salary will be reviewed by the Committee annually, in February, with changes effective from 1 April of that year.
Salaries for the year under review are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
In deciding salary levels, the Committee considers personal performance including how the individual has helped to support the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Committee will also consider employment conditions and salary levels across the Group, prevailing market conditions, and market data for FTSE companies in similar industries and those with similar market capitalisation.
Salaries are paid to existing directors in GBP: however the Committee reserves the right to pay future and existing directors in any other currency converted at the prevailing market rate when a change is agreed.
Opportunity The percentage salary increases for executive directors will not exceed those of the wider workforce over the life of this Policy in the normal course of business.
Higher increases may be awarded i. e. in excess of the wider employee population in instances where, for example, there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, or if a new director was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary.
The Committee will provide the rationale for any such higher increases in the relevant years annual report on remuneration.
Performance None explicitly, but salaries are independently benchmarked periodically against FTSE companies in similar industries metrics and those with similar market capitalisation.
Personal performance is also taken into account when considering salary increases.
Pension Function To provide post-retirement benefits for executive directors in a cost-efficient manner.
Operation The pension plans operated by the Group which executive directors are, or could be, members of are: Meggitt Pension Plan defined benefit pension plan, closed to new members.
Meggitt Workplace Savings Plan defined contribution personal pension scheme, open to new members.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
There are no unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for directors.
Opportunity New executive director external appointments since 2013 are eligible for a pension allowance of 25% of salary, payable either as a pension contribution up to any limit set in current regulations or, above such limits, in cash.
Where agreements have been made prior to the approval of the Policy approved by shareholders in 2014 2014 Policy which entitle an executive to receive a pension allowance higher than 25% of salary, pension allowances up to a maximum of 50% of salary will be paid.
Mr Young and Mr Green had agreements prior to the approval of the 2014 Policy which entitle them to receive a pension allowance of 50% of salary and this arrangement will continue for these directors during the life of the Policy.
metrics 76 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Benefits Function To provide non-cash benefits which are competitive in the market in which the executive director is employed.
Operation The Group may provide benefits including, but not limited to, a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, a fuel allowance, a mobile phone, relocation costs and any other future benefits made available either to all employees globally or all employees in the region in which the executive director is employed.
Opportunity Benefits vary by role and individual circumstances: eligibility and cost is reviewed periodically.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
It is not anticipated that the costs of benefits provided will increase significantly in the financial years over which this Policy will apply, although the Committee retains discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. to facilitate recruitment, relocation, expatriation, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Groups control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
metrics Annual bonus Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Function To incentivise executive directors on delivering annual financial and personal targets.
Operation Performance measures, targets and weightings are set at the start of the year.
The performance period of the STIP is a financial year.
After the end of the financial year, to the extent that the performance criteria have been met, 75% of the STIP award is paid in cash to the director.
The remaining 25% of the award will be deferred into shares and released with no further performance conditions attached, and no matching shares provided after a further period of two years.
Under the STIP 2014 rules as approved by the Committee, the Committee may decide to apply malus and or clawback to STIP awards and deferred STIP awards to reduce the vesting of awards and or require repayment of awards in the event of a review of the conduct, capability or performance of the director where there has been misconduct by the director or material misstatement of the Companys or a Group members financial results for any period.
Deferred STIP awards may lapse in certain leaver circumstances.
Opportunity The STIP provides for a maximum award opportunity of up to 150% of salary in normal circumstances, with an on-target opportunity of 100% of salary and an opportunity of 50% of salary at threshold performance.
The Committee has discretion to make a STIP award of up to 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances e. g. a substantial contract win which has a significant positive financial impact in the long term but which has no, or negative, short term financial impact.
Dividends accrue on unvested deferred STIP awards over the vesting period and are released on the vesting date.
Performance STIP awards are based on the achievement of financial and personal performance targets.
For the executive directors, metrics the STIP will be based on a combination of the financial performance of the Group and personal performance.
The relative weightings of the financial and personal elements for any STIP period, and the measures used to assess financial and non-financial performance, will be set by the Committee in its absolute discretion to align with the Groups operating and strategic priorities for that year.
However, the weighting for personal performance will not exceed one-third of the maximum STIP opportunity in any year.
The award for performance under each element of the STIP will be calculated independently.
The Committee has discretion to review the consistency of the pay-out of the financial and personal elements and adjust the total up or down within the levels specified above if it does not consider this to be a fair reflection of the underlying performance of the Group or the individual.
The personal performance element will typically be based on three to five objectives relevant to the executives role and performance in core competency areas, which are seven core skills specifically selected as critical for the Groupsemployees.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable to the STIP for each year, including a description of how they were chosen and whether they were met, will be disclosed retrospectively in the annual report on remuneration for the following year subject to commercial sensitivity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 77 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Function To align the interests of executive directors with shareholders in growing the value of the Group over the long term.
Operation Under the LTIP, executive directors are eligible to receive annual awards over Meggitt shares vesting after three years, subject to the achievement of stretching performance targets.
Whilst it is the current intention that LTIP awards will be in the form of nil cost options, the LTIP provides, at the absolute discretion of the Committee, for awards of conditional shares, market value share options and phantom awards.
Under the LTIP 2014 rules, the Committee may decide to apply malus and or clawback to awards to reduce the vesting of awards and or require repayment of awards in the event of a review of the conduct, capability or performance of the director where there has been misconduct by the director or material misstatement of the Companys or a Group members financial results for any period.
LTIP awards made to executive directors from 2018 are subject to a two-year holding period after the three-year vesting period.
Opportunity Executive directors will normally be eligible for annual LTIP awards of 220% of salary.
Awards up to a maximum of 300% of salary may be granted in exceptional circumstances e. g. to support the recruitment of a key executive or to recognise exceptional individual performance.
30% of an award will vest if performance against each performance condition is at threshold and 100% if each is at maximum, with straight line vesting in between.
Dividends accrue on unvested LTIP awards over the vesting period and are released, to the extent the LTIP award vests, on the vesting exercise date.
Performance Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to continued employment and performance against three measures, which are intended metrics to be as follows for awards made over the life of the Policy: Earnings per Share EPS : Return on Capital Employed ROCE : and Strategic goals typically but not always to be based on strategic priorities around execution, growth and innovation, which will be explained in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
The way these measures link to our KPIs can be seen on pages 30 to 33.
It is the intention that the weighting of the measures will be equal i. e. one-third each but that the Committee will consider, and adjust if deemed appropriate, the weighting at the start of each LTIP cycle.
Awards made under the LTIP have a performance period of three financial years, starting from 1 January of the year in which the award is made and ending on 31 December of the third year.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards will lapse.
Vesting of the strategic element will also be subject to a discretionary assessment by the Committee of the extent to which achievement of the strategic objectives is consistent with the underlying financial performance over the three-yearperiod.
The measures and targets in operation for grants made under the LTIP, and which are not deemed commercially sensitive, are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year of grant.
Any commercially sensitive information on measures, targets and performance will be disclosed retrospectively.
Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan SIP Function To align the interests of employees and shareholders by encouraging all employees to own Meggitt shares.
Operation Sharesave SchemeAll employee scheme under which all UK employees including UK executive directors may save up to a maximum monthly savings limit over a period of three or five years.
Options under the Sharesave Scheme are granted at a discount of up to 20% to the market value of shares at the date of grant.
SIPAll employee scheme under which i all UK employees including UK executive directors may contribute up to a monthly maximum to purchase shares monthly from pre-tax pay: and ii all UK employees including UK executive directors may receive free shares up to an annual maximum value.
Opportunity Savings, contributions and free shares are capped at or below the legislative maximum for tax-qualifying approved share plans at the time UK employees are invited to participate.
metrics 78 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the Policy table The Committee is satisfied that the above Policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risk-taking.
The Committee retains discretion to make minor, non-significant changes to the Policy without reverting to shareholders.
Payments from outstanding awards Outstanding awards are currently held by the directors under the Equity Participation Plan and the Executive Share Option Scheme which were the Groups long term incentive plans prior to the introduction of the LTIP in 2014.
These awards have all vested in accordance with the applicable performance conditions and are capable of exercise during the period over which this Policy applies.
The tables on pages 92 to 93 highlight outstanding and vested awards.
Approach to target setting and performance measure selection Performance measures have been selected to closely align with, and reinforce, Meggitts strategic priorities see page 12.
Targets applying to the STIP and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points, including the Groups strategic plan, analyst forecasts for Meggitt and its sector comparators, historical growth achieved by Meggitt and its sector comparators, market practice and external expectations for growth in Meggitts markets.
STIP The performance measures used in the STIP reflect financial targets for the year and non-financial performance objectives.
The Policy provides the Committee with flexibility to select appropriate measures on an annual basis.
STIP performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular personal performance objectives and the economic environment in a given year.
For financial measures, target is based around the annual budget approved by the Board.
Prior to the start of the financial year, the Committee sets an appropriate performance range around target, which it considers provides an appropriate degree of stretch challenge and an incentive to outperform.
LTIP The vesting of LTIP awards made during the life of this Policy will be linked to EPS, ROCE and the achievement of long-term strategic goals.
EPS is considered by the Board to be the most important measure of Meggitts financial performance.
It is highly visible internally, is regularly monitored and reported and is strongly motivational for participants.
EPS targets will continue to be set on a nominal cumulative pence basis to incentivise consistent performance and reflect the fact that Meggitts profits are generated to a large degree outside the UK and not significantly influenced by UK retail price inflation.
ROCE helps to balance the achievement of growth and returns.
The Committee believes ROCE is a good proxy for total shareholder return TSR which focuses executives on managing the balance sheet and Meggitts operational performance.
For executive directors, the use of ROCE targets reflects the fact that acquisition decisions come within the collective responsibility of the Board.
The Committee believes that the strategic goals component helps reinforce the realisation of the Groups strategy and the achievement of key non-financial and strategic goals over long product cycles which drive long-term value at Meggitt.
This element will typically comprise a scorecard of three-year targets across a maximum of three core strategic areas for the Group.
The Committee believes that this approach enables it to reflect the Groups long-term nature and shifting strategic priorities in the LTIP to ensure executives interests remain closely aligned with those of our shareholders over time.
Specific measures and targets for each area will be developed and clearly defined at the start of each three-year cycle to balance leading and lagging indicators of performance.
Vesting of this element is subject to a discretionary assessment by the Committee of the extent to which achievement of the strategic objectives is consistent with Meggitts underlying financial performance over the performanceperiod.
Remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles as that for executive directors.
Annual salary reviews take into account personal performance, Group performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
Some employees below executive level are eligible to participate in annual bonus schemes: opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Senior executives are eligible for LTIP awards on similar terms to the executive directors except some of the performance conditions may vary, although award opportunities are lower and vary by organisational level.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Sharesave Scheme and SIP on identical terms.
Share ownership guidelines The minimum shareholding guideline for executive directors is 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of base salary for each of the other executive directors.
There is no set time frame within which executive directors have to meet the guideline, however until they meet the guideline they are not permitted to sell more than 50% of the after-tax value of a vested share award.
The shareholding requirement ceases when a director leaves the Group.
Further information on the shareholding requirement is in the annual report on remuneration on page91.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 79 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the executive directors and the potentialsplit between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the Policy, applied to 2018 base salaries.
Note that the LTIP awards granted in a year will not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant and the projected value excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
Mr A Wood 000 Mr D R Webb 000 100% 100% Minimum 826 Minimum 609 43% 34% 23% 44% 34% 22% 1,905 1,400 On-target On-target 26% 30% 44% 26% 30% 44% 3,231 2,372 Maximum Maximum Mr P E Green 000 100% Minimum 590 48% 31% 21% 1,227 On-target Salary and benefits Pension 29% 29% 42% STIP Maximum 2,011 LTIP The following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts: Scenario Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Latest known base salary, Latest known base salary, Latest known base salary, pension and value of benefits pension and value of benefits pension and value of benefits STIP No STIP payable On-target STIP payable 67% Maximum STIP payable of maximum LTIP Threshold not achieved 0% Performance warrants Performance warrants full vesting threshold vesting 30% vesting 100% Non-executive directors Remuneration Policy table Non-executive directors stand for re-election annually, do not have a contract of service and are not eligible to join the Groups pension or share schemes.
Details of the Policy on fees paid to our non-executive directors are set out in the table below: Fees Function To attract and retain non-executive directors of the highest calibre with broad commercial and other experience relevant to the Group.
Operation Fee levels are reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 April each year.
The fees paid to the Chairman of the Board are determined by the Committee, while the fees for all other non-executive directors are reviewed by a committee of the Board formed of the executive directors.
Fees for the year under review and for the current year are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration on page 84.
Additional fees are paid to the chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committee and to the Senior Independent Director, to reflect the additional time commitment of these roles.
Additional fees may also be paid to non-executive directors to cover the cost of attendance at meetings which take place outside their continent of residence.
In addition, non-executive directors are reimbursed for reasonable business-related expenses.
In deciding fee increases, the committees consider employment conditions and salary increases across the Group and prevailing market conditions.
Currently, all fees are paid in GBP, however the Committee reserves the right to pay future and existing non-executive directors in any other currency converted at the prevailing market rate when a change is agreed.
Opportunity Fee increases will be applied taking into account the outcome of the annual review.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all non-executive directors including the Chairman as provided in the Companys Articles of Association is 1,000,000.
metrics 80 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Recruitment External appointments In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: Maximum annual Component Approach grant value Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined based on the experience and skills N A of the individual, internal comparisons, employment conditions and salary levels across the Group, and prevailing market conditions.
Initial salaries may be set below market conditions and consideration given to phasing any increases over two or three years subject to development in the role.
Pension In line with the Policy, new appointees will be entitled to become members of the Meggitt N A Workplace Savings Plan defined contribution plan or receive a cash pension allowance of 25% of salary in lieu.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the Policy but only UK employees N A Sharesave SIP will be eligible to participate in all-employee share schemes.
STIP The structure described in the Policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant 150% of salary maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year worked.
Targets for the personal 200% in exceptional element will be tailored to the appointee.
circumstances LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on similar terms as other executive 220% of salary directors, as described in the Policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances In determining the appropriate remuneration structure and levels, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Meggitt and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above the approach outlined in the table above.
Any such compensatory awards will be made under existing share schemes, where appropriate, and will be subject to the normal rules and performance conditions of those schemes.
The Committee may also consider it appropriate to structure buy-out awards differently to the structure described in the Policy table, exercising the discretion available under UKLA Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R where necessary to make a one-off award to an executive director in the context of recruitment.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The value of any such buy-out will be fully disclosed.
Internal promotion Where a new executive director is appointed by way of internal promotion the Policy will be consistent with that for external appointees as detailed above.
Any commitments made prior to an individuals promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled although the Group may, where appropriate, seek to revise an individuals existing service contract on promotion to ensure it aligns with other executive directors and prevailing market bestpractice.
Disclosure on the remuneration structure of any new executive director, including details of any exceptional payments, will be disclosed either in the RIS notification made at the time of appointment or in the annual report on remuneration for the year in which the recruitment occurred.
Non-executive directors In recruiting a new non-executive director the Committee will use the Policy as set out in the table on page 79.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 81 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Discretion The Committee will operate the Groups incentive plans according to their respective rules and the Policy set out above, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules, where relevant.
In line with common market practice, the Committee retains discretion as to the operation and administration of these incentive plans, including with respect to: Who participates: The timing of grant and or payment: The size of an award and or payment: The manner in which awards are settled: The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the Policy set out above and the rules of each plan: The measurement of performance in the event of a variation of share capital, change of control, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award: Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes, based on the rules of each plan and the circumstances of the individual leaving: and Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, other corporate events, etc.. Any use of the above discretion in relation to the executive directors would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration for the year in which the discretion was exercised.
As appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with the Groups major shareholders.
Minor changes The Committee may make minor amendments to the rules of the Groups incentive plans for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without requiring prior shareholder approval for that amendment.
Service contracts and exit payment policy Executive director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to manage the Group.
The Committees policy is that executive directors service contracts should be terminable on no more than 12 months notice.
The Committees approach to payments in the event of termination of employment of an executive director is to take account of the particular circumstances, including the reasons for termination, individual performance, contractual obligations and the rules of the Groups applicable incentive plans which apply to awards held by the executive directors: Compensation for loss of office in service contracts Except as set out in the table on page 82, under the terms of their service contracts, the executive directors may be required to work during their notice period or may, if the Group decides, be paid in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Payment in lieu of notice will be equal to base salary plus the cost to the Group of providing the contractual benefits pensions allowance, health insurance and company car or car allowance that would otherwise have been paid or provided during the notice period.
Payments will be in equal monthly instalments and will be subject to mitigation such that payments will either reduce, or stop completely, if the executive director obtains alternative employment.
An executive directors employment can be terminated by the Group without notice or payment in lieu of notice in specific circumstances including summary dismissal, bankruptcy or resignation.
Treatment of STIP Executive directors have no automatic entitlement to any bonus on termination of employment under the STIP, but the Committee may use its discretion to award a bonus normally pro-rated.
Where any bonus is deferred into shares the award will normally lapse if an executive directors employment terminates unless the executive director leaves for specified reasons.
The good leaver reasons are death, redundancy, retirement, injury, disability, the business or company which employs the executive director ceasing to be part of the Group or any other circumstances in which the Committee exercises discretion to treat the executive director as a good leaver.
If the executive director is a good leaver their award will vest on the normal vesting date and will not be subject to pro-rating.
Awards normally vest early on a change of control of the Company.
Treatment of long term incentive plan awards The treatment of awards under the ESOS, EPP and LTIP is governed by the rules of the plans which have been approved by shareholders and is described below.
Awards will normally lapse if an executive directors employment terminates unless the executive director leaves for specified good leaver reasons.
The good leaver reasons are the same as described above.
If the executive director is a good leaver, awards will vest to the extent that the attached performance conditions are met, but on a time pro-rated basis, with Committee discretion to allow early vesting.
Under the LTIP, awards vest on the normal vesting date subject to performance over the normal performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards normally vest early on a change of control of the Company subject to performance conditions and time pro-rating.
82 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued A summary of the key terms of the executive directors service contracts on termination of employment or change of control is set out below.
This table has been updated since the Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM to reflect that Mr S G Young stepped down as Chief Executive on 31 December 2017 and Mr A Wood was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2018.
Notice period Notice period Compensation payable on termination of Name Position from employer from employee employment or change of control Mr A Wood Chief Executive 12 months 6 months As set out in the Policy.
Service contract dated 13 November 2017 No change of control provisions.
Mr D R Webb Chief Financial 12 months 6 months As set out in the Policy.
Service contract dated Officer 6 June 2013 No change of control provisions.
Mr P E Green Executive Director, 12 months 6 months Mr Greens service contract was entered into before 27 Service contract dated Commercial & June 2012 and has not been modified or renewed after that 26 February 2001 Corporate Affairs date.
As such, remuneration or payments for loss of office that are required to be made under Mr Greens service contract are not required to be consistent with the Policy.
Payments to Mr Green under his service contract differ from the Policy in the following respects: On termination of employment, Mr Green is entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal to his salary and the value of his contractual benefits bonus, pension allowance, insurance and company car or car allowance at the date of termination, pro-rated to the remaining notice period less an amount equal to 5% of the aggregate sum and the Committee shall exercise its discretion under the Groups share plans to treat Mr Green as a good leaver.
On change of control, Mr Green may give notice to terminate his employment within six months of the event and upon such termination he shall become entitled to the liquidated damages payment summarised above.
External appointments held by executive directors The Board believes that the Group can benefit from experience gained when executive directors hold external non-executive directorships.
Executive directors are allowed to hold external appointments and to receive payment provided such appointments are agreed by the Board or Committee in advance, there are no conflicts of interests and the appointment does not lead to deterioration in the individuals performance.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the annual report on remuneration on page 91.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee does not consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy and framework but the Committee does review salary data from across the Group.
The Committee seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies, including trade unions and works councils, as part of its broader employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Salary increases made elsewhere in the Group are amongst the data that the Committee considers in determining salaries for executive directors.
In making remuneration decisions for the executive directors the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
To assist in this, the Committee members receive updates from the executives on pay decisions throughout the Group, including STIP payments and share awards made to executives outside the Committees remit.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee Chairman is available to discuss remuneration matters with the Groups major shareholders and is also regularly updated on feedback on remuneration received by the Chairman of the Board and executive directors directly from shareholders.
The Committee Chairman ensures the Committee is kept informed of shareholder views.
The Committee Chairman consulted with shareholders, reviewed their guidelines and guidelines released by other shareholder representative bodies, before the Policy was put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 83 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Annual report on remuneration The following report provides details of how our existing Policy was implemented during the year ended 31 December 2017.
Remuneration Committee 2017 membership and attendance Attended 1 Mr P Heiden Mr G S Berruyer Mr C R Day Absent Chairman 2 3 Mrs N L Gioia Ms A J P Goligher Ms B L Reichelderfer 1 On medical leave of absence during one of the scheduled Committee meetings.
There was one meeting between the end of the financial year and the date of signing of this report, which all current members of the Committee attended.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy and packages for all executive directors and the Executive Committee being the direct reports to the Chief Executive, and for agreeing the fees for the Chairman.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and HR Director attend meetings of the Committee by invitation: they are absent when their own remuneration is under consideration.
None of the non-executive directors has, or has had, any personal financial interests or conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Advisors to the Committee During the year, the Committees independent remuneration advisors were Mercer part of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. who were appointed in 2010 as a result of a competitive tender process.
The Committee is satisfied that Mercer continue to act as independent advisors to the Committee.
The Committee evaluates the support provided by Mercer annually and is comfortable that they provide effective and independent remuneration advice to the Committee.
Mercer provide guidance on remuneration matters at Board level and below.
Mercer do not have any other connection with the Group other than through their parent company, Marsh & McLennan Companies which is also the parent company of the Groups primary advisors on insurance Marsh and UK pensions and benefits Mercer.
Mercer are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to its code of conduct www.
Their total fees in 2017 for remuneration advice were 54,947 2016: 47,364.
2017 AGM voting The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2016 Directors remuneration report at the 2017 AGM: 1 % of votes % of votes cast Votes withheld Resolution text Votes for cast for Votes against against Total votes cast abstentions Approval of Directors remuneration policy 548,956,542 90.34 58,674,318 9.66 607,630,860 43,942 Approval of Directors remuneration report 586,758,026 96.57 20,866,997 3.43 607,625,023 50,452 1 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
2 Taxable benefits consist primarily of company car or car allowance, fuel allowance and private health care insurance.
For 2017, this included limited relocation expenses for Mr A Wood payable under his service contract until 31 December 2018.
3 STIP paid for performance over the relevant financial year.
Further details of the 2017 STIP, including performance measures, actual performance and bonus payouts, can be found on pages 84 to 85.
4 LTIP is calculated as the number of shares vesting based on certain performance measures and valued at the market value of the shares on the vesting date.
For 2017, the figure represents the actual vesting outcome of the 2015 award, for which the performance measures were based on EPS, ROTA and strategic measures.
Based on performance to 31 December 2017, the 2015 LTIP award will vest at 18.9%.
The market value of vested shares has been estimated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of 499.08p.
This value will be trued up in next years report to reflect the share price on the vesting date.
For 2016, the figure represents the actual vesting of the 2014 award which has been trued up, compared to that reported last year, to reflect the actual share price on the date of vesting 482.10p.
Further details on performance criteria, achievement and resulting vesting levels can be found on pages 85 to 86.
The figures include the accrued distribution payable on the shares that vest equivalent to a dividend paid as income.
84 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Chief Executive retirement Mr S G Young retired from the Board on 31 December 2017 and will retire as an employee on 30 April 2018.
As a retiree, the Committee confirmed Mr Young would be a good leaver under the executive and UK employee share plans from 30 April 2018, and so all awards vest at the appropriate time, subject to the normal pro-rating and other scheme rules.
Mr Youngs 2017 STIP will be subject to the normal 25% deferral for a period of two years alongside the other executive directors.
There are no other terms associated with his retirement to note.
Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year: 2017 2016 000 000 Sir Nigel Rudd 350 350 Mr G S Berruyer 57 56 Mr C R Day 68 67 1 Mrs N L Gioia 63 Ms A J P Goligher 57 56 Mr P Heiden 79 78 2 Ms B L Reichelderfer 18 56 1 Appointed on 27 April 2017.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2017 STIP in respect of 2017 performance The Board set stretching financial and strategic targets for the STIP at the start of the 2017 financial year.
These targets, and our performance against these, are summarised in the table below.
Performance targets Actual performance Measure Threshold Target Stretch 1 Underlying operating profit Weighting: one-third of the award 384.1m 402.0m 424.6m 395.2m 1 Free cash flow Weighting: one-third of the award 205.3m 230.3m 255.3m 239.5m 2 Personal performance Weighting: one-third of the award : Mr A Wood 2 3 4 Between target and stretch Mr S G Young 2 3 4 Between target and stretch Mr D R Webb 2 3 4 Between target and stretch Mr P E Green 2 3 4 Between target and stretch 1 Measured at constant currency.
2 Individual personal performance is measured on a scale of 1 to 5.
There is also a weighting applied to the outcome of performance against seven core competencies which are specific characteristics and behaviours in how executive directors performed their work and accomplished their goals collaboration, driving results, ensuring accountability, being resilient, situational adaptability, customer focus and decision quality.
The average of all ratings drives the STIP outcome, where 2 indicates expectations are partially met, 3 is fully met and 4 exceeds expectations.
In determining the outcome of the 2017 STIP, the Committee considered the impact of Dassaults cancellation of the Falcon 5X programme, which was announced in December 2017.
As reported in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 35, the Group has taken a 59.5m exceptional impairment charge related to this cancellation.
The Committee has determined that no adjustment should be made for this charge in calculating the STIP payments which are based on underlying profit before exceptional items.
The Committee considered the following factors: i the programme was cancelled by the customer, not the Group: ii the aerospace industry business model involves suppliers taking the risk for changes in market dynamics affecting programmes and ultimately for any failure for a platform to enter service, but the history of programme cancellations such as this is extremely rare: iii the programme was originally bid in 2008 and won in 2010 and there is no suggestion that this was in any way an inappropriate commercial decision at the time, neither did any prior STIP payment receive any financial credit from this programme: and iv the Group is actively seeking ways to mitigate the financial impact of the cancellation, however the financial benefit of any mitigation will not be applied to STIP payments in the future.
In terms of personal performance conditions, the following is a summary of the conditions which applied in 2017 to each executivedirector: Mr S G Young: improve investor confidence: review, update and implement portfolio strategy actions to reduce debt and sharpen focus: develop and embed Group vision with senior leaders: conduct operating review and determine operating strategy and targets to 2021 and agree Chief Operating Officer development plan.
Mr A Wood: improve investor confidence: review, update and implement portfolio strategy actions to reduce debt and sharpen focus: develop and embed Group vision with senior leaders: conduct operating review and determine operating strategy and targets to 2021 and launch and embed Group-wide high performance culture programme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 85 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Mr D R Webb: improve investor confidence: review, update and implement portfolio strategy actions to reduce debt and sharpen focus: manage the HR function until appointment of new Head of HR: continue to adapt as necessary to the changing international tax rules and in particular their impact on our inter-company financing arrangements: support continued improvement of core IT infrastructure while also evolving it to meet requirements of operational strategy: financial and management reporting including to implement IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 from 1 January 2018 with full restatement for 2017 and supporting the audit tender process.
Mr P E Green: continue to improve professionalism and effectiveness of the commercial function and improve commercial awareness amongst the non-commercial community: further embed good compliance practices across the Group including trade compliance and sales representatives: implement an appropriate DFARS 7012 US Department of Defense standard on cyber security solution to safeguard Covered Defense Information: expand Government relations activities.
The following STIP awards were received by directors in respect of 2017 performance: Executive % salary 000 Mr A Wood 101.5 467 Mr S G Young 101.5 716 Mr D R Webb 108.1 505 Mr P E Green 104.9 395 STIP deferral into shares As a result of the 2017 STIP vesting outcome described above, 25% of the STIP payout will be deferred into shares and released with no further performance conditions attached after a further period of two years, in line with the Policy.
In 2017, as a result of the 2016 STIP vesting, the following share awards were made under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan: Shares over which 1 2 Executive Form of award Date of grant awards granted Award price 000 % of bonus Date of vesting 3 Mr A Wood Mr S G Young award 07.04.2017 35,342 442.10p 156 25 07.04.2019 Mr D R Webb award 07.04.2017 24,598 442.10p 109 25 07.04.2019 Mr P E Green award 07.04.2017 19,989 442.10p 88 25 07.04.2019 1 The award price is the average close price for the five days prior to the award date.
3 Mr A Wood was appointed on 1 December 2016 and did not receive a 2016 STIP award.
2015 LTIP The LTIP award made in April 2015 was subject to three-year cumulative underlying EPS, three-year average ROTA and a scorecard of strategic measures.
Performance against each of these measures over the completed performance period is summarised in the table below: Targets Actual % vesting Element Weighting Threshold Mid-point Stretch performance of LTIP Underlying EPS pence three-year aggregate 33.3% 108.3p 113.7p 119.1p 101.5p 0% ROTA % average over three years 33.3% 23.4% 25.4% 27.4% 20.3% 0% 1 Strategic measures Organic revenue growth % 5.6% 5.0% 6.5% 8.0% 0.8% 0% CAGR Growth 2 Programme management 5.6% 2.0 3.0 4.0 2.48 2.6% average performance score per programme, out of 5 2 Innovation Schedule 5.6% 2.0 3.0 4.0 3.71 5.0% 2 MPS 5.6% 2.0 3.0 4.0 3.76 5.1% 2 Quality Year 1 and 2 2.0 3.0 4.0 2.97 5.6% 3.0% Gross margin - delivery of % 38.7% 39.5% 40.3% 38.8% Execution improvement Year 3 2 Delivery Year 1 and 2 2.0 3.0 4.0 2.66 5.6% 3.2% Inventory reduction Year 3 510.8m 493.1m 451.3m 490.3m Overall outcome 18.9% 1 Progress against the targets for all strategic measures other than revenue growth are assessed annually, and the final vesting outcome based on performance period.
MPS vesting is based on the number of our sites that have progressed up one stage of MPS in the year, against stretching targets set for overall progression.
Innovation vesting is determined based on progress with certain important innovation projects against detailed milestone criteria, as assessed by our Chief Technology Officer.
Quality and delivery is based on progress against specific targets in each of these areas.
For each of these measures the vesting criteria were set at the start of the year and assessed at the end of the year.
Programme management vesting is an assessment of programme performance and is based on independent assessments of the performance of our largest programmes c100 in total at formal programme gate reviews against standard gate exit criteria.
86 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Based on these performance outcomes, 18.9% of the 2015 LTIP award will vest.
Details of the awards vesting to executive directors are set out in the table below: Share price at Value 1 2 Executive Interests held Vesting % Interests vesting Date of vesting vesting 000 3 Mr A Wood Mr S G Young 266,503 18.9 50,369 01.04.2018 499.08p 274 Mr D R Webb 176,598 18.9 33,377 01.04.2018 499.08p 181 Mr P E Green 142,128 18.9 26,862 01.04.2018 499.08p 146 1 The market value of vested stock is based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2017.
2 The value includes the accrued distribution payable on the shares that vest equivalent to a dividend paid as income.
3 Mr A Wood was appointed on 1 December 2016 and did not receive a 2015 LTIP award.
Scheme interests awarded in the year ended 31 December 2017 audited 1 2017 LTIP Shares over Face value which awards 2 3 Executive Form of award Date of grant granted Award price 000 % of salary Date of vesting Mr A Wood Nil cost option 07.04.2017 228,907 442.10p 1,012 220 07.04.2020 Mr S G Young Nil cost option 07.04.2017 350,825 442.10p 1,551 220 07.04.2020 Mr D R Webb Nil cost option 07.04.2017 232,390 442.10p 1,027 220 07.04.2020 Mr P E Green Nil cost option 07.04.2017 187,355 442.10p 828 220 07.04.2020 1 The 2017 LTIP measures were disclosed and explained in the 2016 Directors remuneration report.
2 The award price is the average close price for the five days prior to the award date.
The face value has been calculated using the award price for each award.
3 Based on salary at the date of award.
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of three-year targets based on the following performance measures: Weighting Measure Threshold Mid-point Stretch 33.3% Underlying EPS pence three-year aggregate equivalent to CAGR range of 4% to 9% 113.0 118.7 124.3 33.3% ROTA average over three years 17.7% 18.7% 19.7% 2 Inventory 13 point inventory 514.0m 496.4m 454.3m 3 value 2 Gross margin Gross margin % 38.7% 39.5% 40.3% Execution 2.0 3.0 4.0 Meggitt Average Production status per 2 1 System schedule Strategic measures Organic revenue % organic 4.0% 5.5% 7.0% 33.3% average over three years growth revenue growth CAGR Growth over three years Programme Average status 2.0 3.0 4.0 2 1 management per reviews 2 Innovation Schedule Average status 2.0 3.0 4.0 1 per schedule 1 Performance against each strategic measure will be assessed at the end of the three-year period against a scale of: 1.0 threshold objective not met 2.0 threshold met 3.0 on target 4.0 stretch objective met 5.0 stretch objective exceeded 2 The targets apply to year 1 of the 2017 LTIP award, they also apply to year 2 of the 2016 LTIP award and year 3 of the 2015 LTIP award.
3 Inventory is measured at constant currency, gross of provisions, averaging month end balances over a year.
Total pension entitlements audited The table below sets out details of the pension entitlements under the Meggitt Pension Plan MPP for Mr Young and Mr Green.
Mr Webb and Mr Wood receive a pension allowance of 25% of base salary, but are not members of any defined benefit or defined contribution pension scheme operated by the Group.
Since reaching the governments Lifetime Allowance in April 2012, Mr Young and Mr Green ceased accruing further benefit under the MPP and receive a 50% pension allowance on their full salary.
Mr Young and Mr Greens dependants remain eligible for dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum on death in service.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 87 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The pension allowance payments made in 2017 are included in the single total figure of remuneration table.
early and taken and taken retirement retirement benefits benefits factors factors cost neutral cost neutral 1 Mr Young opted to leave the MPP and take his pension benefits with effect from 5 April 2012.
2 Mr Green opted to leave the MPP with effect from 31 March 2012.
He has not drawn his pension.
Percentage change in CEO cash remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all executive employees.
We have selected our senior executive population for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant, due to the structure of total remuneration: most of our senior executives receive benefits under the same STIP and LTIP structure as our CEO.
Base salary for Mr Wood as Chief Executive is disclosed in the note below on page 88.
Base salary data for executive employees is calculated using the increase in the earnings of around 220 full-time executive employees using the same employee data set in 2016 and 2017.
Around 41% of executives received a pay rise of 2.5% or less.
Around 41% received pay rises of between 2.5% and 5%.
A further 18% received pay rises above 5% largely owing to changes in responsibilities.
2 For benefits, this information is not collected for the executive employee population and is therefore estimated from a sample of executive employees, using a consistent set of employees.
3 The STIP for executive employees is calculated using the increase in the STIP payout to around 220 full-time executive employees using the same employee data set in 2016 and 2017.
Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and share buybacks and total employee expenditure for 2017 and the prior year, along with the percentage change in both.
Shareholder distributions 2 Comprises wages and salaries and retirement benefit costs.
See note 9 to the Group consolidated financial statements.
Exit payments made in the year No exit payments have been made in 2017.
Payments to past directors audited There were no payments to past directors in 2017.
A fide minimis of 10,000 applies to all disclosures under this note.
88 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Review of past performance The remuneration package is structured to help ensure alignment with shareholders.
There is no direct correlation between share price movement and the change in the value of the pay package in any one year as the remuneration package comprises several components, some fixed, and others based on non-financial measures.
The graph and table below show how the CEOs pay has correlated to total shareholder return over the last nine years.
This graph illustrates the Groups performance compared to the FTSE 100 Index, which is considered the most appropriate broad equity market index against which the Groups performance should be measured.
For 2017, this represents the outcome of the LTIP award which will vest in 2018.
2 Figures are provided for Mr T Twigger for the period up to 1 May 2013 and Mr S G Young for the period from his appointment as CEO on 1 May 2013 to 31 December 2017.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2018 Base salary, pension and benefits Base salaries are reviewed taking into account personal performance, employment conditions and salary levels across the Group and prevailing market conditions.
Base salaries were reviewed in early 2018.
The base salary for Mr Wood was changed on 1 January 2018 to reflect his new responsibilities as Chief Executive see page 73 for details and will not be further increased on 1 April.
The base salaries for the other executive directors will be increased by 1.99% from 1 April 2018.
In agreeing these increases the Committee took into account average expected salary increases across the general workforce, industry benchmarks and broader retail inflation, as well as the performance of the executive directors in 2017.
The salary adjustments for the executive directors are lower than or equal to the expected increase across the general workforce.
2018 2017 000 % change 000 Mr A Wood 650 41.30 460 Mr D R Webb 476 1.99 467 Mr P E Green 384 1.99 377 The Committee periodically benchmarks executive director salaries against other FTSE companies of similar size, as well as a defined group of UK-listed industry comparators, comprising: BAE Systems, BBA Aviation, Cobham, Halma, IMI, Melrose, RollsRoyce, Rotork, Senior, Spectris, Spirax-Sarco, Ultra Electronics and Weir Group.
There are no changes in pension contribution rates or benefit provision.
value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 89 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 2018 STIP measures STIP measures for 2018 are based on underlying operating profit one-third, free cash flow one-third and personal performance onethird.
The STIP targets for 2018, together with details of whether they have been met, will be disclosed subject to commercial sensitivity in the 2018 Directors remuneration report.
STIP award opportunities will be in line with the Policy disclosed on page 76.
2018 STIP measures Underlying operating profit 33.3% Free cash flow 33.3% Personal performance 33.3% 2018 LTIP measures The executive directors will be granted awards under the LTIP, the vesting of which will be subject to the measures shown below.
EPS 33.3% Innovation Execution 11.1% Strategic 11.1% measures 33.3% Growth ROCE 11.1% 33.3% Measures chosen and approach to target setting Performance measures for the 2018 STIP and LTIP cycles are selected to align closely with our KPIs to capture key aspects of our business strategy that will, if realised, create sustainable shareholder value over the longer term.
Below are the measures, why we selected them and how we set the targets: Measure Rationale for selection Targets set in the context of: STIP Underlying operating profit Our budget for the year Measures relate to our short term financial and strategic Free cash flow Our budget for the year priorities Personal performance Key priorities for each director LTIP Underlying EPS KPI Our strategic plan Can be benchmarked externally External benchmarks, including analyst forecasts and EPS ranges for comparators ROCE Replaces ROTA for the 2018 LTIP, in response to investor Our strategic plan feedback, to better reflect the value that acquisitions bring to Meggitt Strategic measures: Drivers of operational performance that underpin deployment of our key strategic goals Organic revenue growth KPI Our strategic plan External market trends Inventory Reinforces operational excellence and Meggitts Our budget for the year overall competitiveness Gross margin KPI.
Reinforces operational excellence and Meggitts Our budget for the year overall competitiveness MPS Measures our progress in deploying MPS across the Agreed annual targets, updated at the start Group, to drive operational improvements, including in of each year in the performance period to quality and delivery ensure the LTIP targets remain relevant and stretching over the three-year period Programme management Measures our performance in passing programme gate Calibrated as three sets of annual targets reviews In determining the final vesting outcome Innovation Measures achievement of innovation programme at the end of the cycle, the Committee milestones considers performance over the three-year performance period for each measure 90 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f gO Inan ver c nan Ial S ct eatementS Directors remuneration report continued Vesting of the 2018 LTIP awards will be subject to the following measures and targets: Weighting Measure Threshold Mid-point Stretch 33.3% Underlying EPS pence three-year aggregate equivalent to CAGR range of 3% to 9% 101.6 107.7 114.0 33.3% ROCE average over three years 11.1% 11.5% 11.9% 2 451.4m 421.4m 401.4m Inventory 13-point inventory 3 value 2 Gross margin Gross margin Execution percentage 38.0% 38.8% 39.6% Meggitt Average status 2.0 3.0 4.0 1 Production per schedule 2 System Strategic measures 33.3% average over three years Organic revenue % organic revenue 4.0% 5.5% 7.0% growth growth CAGR over three years Growth Programme Average status 2.0 3.0 4.0 2 1 management per reviews 2 Innovation Schedule Average status 2.0 3.0 4.0 1 per schedule 1 Performance against each strategic measure will be assessed at the end of the three-year period against a scale of: 1.0 threshold objective not met 2.0 threshold met 3.0 on target 4.0 stretch objective met 5.0 stretch objective exceeded 2 The targets apply to year 1 of the 2018 LTIP award, year 2 of the 2017 LTIP award and year 3 of the 2016 LTIP award.
The Committee has discussed the potential impact of IFRS 15 on the outcome of the underlying EPS measure, where strong performance and growth on programmes with significant Free of Charge content would lead to reduced underlying EPS in the near term and reduced LTIP vesting.
The Committee does not wish to disincentivise strong performance in this area as it is an important driver of longer term growth and will take this into account when considering the vesting outcome of the EPS measure under LTIP.
Chairman and non-executive director fees The remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors in 2018 will be as follows: 1 1 2018 2017 000 000 2 Chairman fee 357 350 3 Non-executive director base fee 58 57 Additional fee for chairing Audit or Remuneration Committee 11 11 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 11 11 1 Fees shown are effective for a year from 1 April.
2 Sir Nigel Rudd receives additional benefits of 20,000 per annum for secretarial and car services required for business purposes.
3 A fee of 4,000 is paid per meeting to US directors when travelling to meetings outside of their home continent.
Directors beneficial interests audited The beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 December 2017, as notified under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA including shares held beneficially in the SIP by executive directors, were as follows: Shareholding Ordinary shares of 5p each 2017 2016 Sir Nigel Rudd 124,650 122,000 Mr A Wood 10,479 Mr S G Young 680,905 638,514 Mr G S Berruyer 13,000 13,000 Mr C R Day 52,454 25,868 Mrs N L Gioia 3,000 Ms A J P Goligher 3,000 3,000 Mr P E Green 575,684 572,934 Mr P Heiden 6,470 6,275 Ms B L Reichelderfer 6,000 6,000 Mr D R Webb 130,131 102,235 Between 1 January 2018 and 13 February 2018, the only changes to the beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are that Mr Webb acquired 54 shares and Mr Green acquired 54 shares through the Meggitt PLC Share Incentive Plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 91 STRATEGIC REPORT G gO Ove VEr Rnan NANc Ce E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION External appointments held by executive directors Fees retained 2017 Executive Director Company Role 000 Mr S G Young Derwent London plc Non-executive director 42 Chairman of Audit Committee 8 Member of Remuneration, Audit and Risk Committees 12 Total 62 Mr D R Webb SEGRO plc Non-executive director 55 Chairman of Audit Committee 10 Total 65 Directors shareholding requirements audited Shares which are included within the shareholding requirement are: Source of shares Description ESOS, EPP and LTIP Share awards exercised and retained.
Investment shares Shares purchased as investment shares in respect of matching awards held under the EPP.
Deferred Bonus Shares released and retained after the two-year deferral period.
Ordinary shares Shares purchased directly in the market.
Dividend reinvestment plan Shares acquired through the dividend reinvestment plan.
SIP Shares acquired under the SIP including those held in trust.
Sharesave Scheme Shares exercised and retained.
The table below shows the shareholding of each executive director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31December2017: Shareholding Current guideline shareholding % 2017 Shares owned % 2017 Guideline 1 2 Name salary outright salary met?
Mr A Wood 200% 10,479 11% Building Mr S G Young 300% 680,905 466% met Mr D R Webb 200% 130,131 134% Building Mr P E Green 200% 575,684 737% met 1 Includes shares invested to be eligible for outstanding EPP matching awards.
2 Assessment of shareholding is based on a share price of 482.20 pence the value of a Meggitt share on 31 December 2017.
Directors interests in share schemes audited All of the ESOS, EPP and LTIP awards have performance conditions attached as detailed in the Directors remuneration report in the year of grant and in this report for those awards made in 2017.
The awards made up to and including 2014 have already vested to the extent detailed in this and previous reports and the figures shown in the table below for those years are the vested share award amounts.
The awards made after 2015 were unvested as at 31December 2017.
Sharesave awards are not subject to performance conditions.
