Directors Remuneration Report Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As the additional elements provide strong market alignment, it is not our intention to present a new policy for approval.
We will continue to engage with shareholders and monitor good practice developments ahead of our AGM in 2020, where it is anticipated that a revised Remuneration Policy will be presented for approval.
Performance in the year The Committee continues to place great importance on ensuring that there is a clear link between pay and performance, including adherence to the Groups risk Jacques Aigrain framework, and that our remuneration outcomes are reflective of this wider context.
Chairman of the Remuneration The Group has continued to execute on our strategy and achieved a strong Committee financial and operational performance with growth across our core businesses, delivering on a number of new initiatives and developing our customer On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors partnership approach.
Total income from continuing operations rose to 1,955 Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. million, up 18%.
AOP increased by 18% 126 million to 812 million and The report includes our Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual operating profit increased 47% to 626 million.
This strong performance reflects double-digit growth in our FTSE Russell and LCH Context OTC clearing businesses, supported by a robust capital markets performance At our April 2017 AGM, shareholders voted 98.5% in favour of our Remuneration against challenging market conditions.
As a result of our proposed merger with Deutsche Brse, we did not make Our Information Services Divisions revenue for FY2017 was 736 million 2016: any amendments to our policy in 2017 and appreciated shareholder support for 595 million, within which FTSE Russell has continued to perform strongly with our approach.
a 33% increase in revenue to 546 million 2016: 409 million.
Within this performance the US$48 million run rate 5 year acquisition revenue synergies of We made a commitment to review our policy in the event that the merger did not the Russell Indexes business, acquired in 2014, have been achieved.
In January proceed and as such, the following enhancements are being incorporated into our 2017 we acquired Mergent Inc, and in August we acquired The Yield Book and policy for operation in 2018 to further align to shareholder expectations and Citi Fixed Income Indices businesses, which will both support the growth of FTSE corporate governance best practice: Russells core index offering.
The mandatory deferral of 50% of bonus will be into shares only LCHs income for FY2017 increased 26% to 562 million 2016: 447 million.
A 2 year holding period will be added to the current 3 year performance period SwapClear saw a 31% increase in clearing volumes, clearing a total US$874 of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, resulting in a total 5 year period from the trillion 2016: US$666 trillion for its members and their clients.
The LCH date of grant: and SwapAgent service for uncleared products went live in May 2017.
The Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR will be increased from 200% to In our capital markets business, revenues increased 6% to 391 million 2016: 300% of base salary 368 million and 194 new companies were admitted to our markets in the year, up 45% on 2016, with 9 out of 10 of the top IPOs by size coming from outside of We are grateful for shareholder feedback in helping to shape and develop our revised the UK, underlining its position as the leading global listing venue for policy.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee believes that these international companies.
enhancements ensure that our Remuneration Policy continues to align executive Income for Post Trade services in Italy increased 3% to 151 million 2016: remuneration and shareholders long-term interests.
FY2017 revenue for the technology division was 91 million 2016: 88 million.
At the end of 2017 and in early 2018 we confirmed the disposal of 2 non-core technology businesses: MillenniumIT ESP and Exactpro.
72 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Group has delivered another strong financial performance with growth across all The Committee has decided to increase Mr Warrens base salary for his role as core business areas.
Although the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse failed for Chief Financial Officer to 500,000, which is in line with average employee salary exogenous reasons it involved immense management effort.
Despite the significant increases of 2.5%.
Further details of Mr Warrens remuneration arrangements as resources and focus required to progress the merger discussions, the business interim CEO are provided in the Remuneration arrangements for the interim Chief continued to outperform on financial targets during and after the process.
Executive Officer section on the following page.
Bonus outcomes for Executive Directors The Committee has decided to increase the salary of Raffaele Jerusalmi, Chief As a result of the Groups performance and individual performance, the Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of Capital Markets to 525,000, Committee determined that the Executive Directors will be awarded bonuses recognising the value of his role as an Executive Director.
The increase of 1% is of between 79% and 82% of their maximum opportunity.
below average employee salary increases of 2.5%.
Share plan vesting LTIP awards to be made in 2018 90.5% of the LTIP awards made in 2014 vested during 2017.
AEPS increased from LTIP awards to be granted in 2018 will be granted under our 2014 shareholder- 98.6p FY to end March 2014 to 129.7p over the period to the end of December approved plan.
2016, resulting in 81% of the AEPS element vesting.
TSR increased by 120% over the period to August 2017, resulting in 100% of the TSR element vesting.
David Warren will be granted a LTIP award of 300% and Raffaele Jerusalmi will be granted a LTIP award of 275% of salary in 2018, reflecting their criticality and As shown in our Single total figure of remuneration table, the AEPS element of providing strong alignment to the performance of the Group.
the LTIP awards made in 2015 will vest in full.
Based on performance to date it is forecast that the TSR element will also vest in full, however this will be confirmed Operation of 2018 annual bonus following the end of the performance period in April 2018 and will be disclosed in The operation of the 2018 annual bonus will continue to be focused on financial our FY2018 DRR.
The achievement of stretching targets year on year has delivered targets, strategic initiatives and personal contribution.
These vesting outcomes reflect AEPS growth of 14.6% year on year and 12.9% compound annual growth rate CAGR over the 3 year Share plan rules and approvals performance period: and annualised TSR performance to date for these 2015 We will seek shareholder approval for 4 share plans at our forthcoming AGM, grants is 19% p. a. incorporating share price growth of 29% in 2017. reflecting routine course of business and our continued commitment to alignment with shareholder interests through employee share ownership.
During 2017, a significant number of our employees benefited from the maturity The plans are summarised below and detailed on page 86. of our 2 Sharesave schemes launched in 2014.
The 2017 Sharesave Invitation Renewal of our approved International Sharesave Plan, which reaches the end extended the expanded Groups participation overall to 52% of eligible employees, of its 10 year lifespan in July 2018 incorporating colleagues in Malaysia and those joining from Mergent Inc. and The Yield Book businesses.
Approval of our Restricted Share Award Plan, which reaches the end of its 10 year lifespan in May 2018.
The plan will continue to be used primarily for key Salary review for Executive Directors new hires to replicate deferred compensation forfeited from prior employment During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of the base salary reflecting the increased prevalence of deferred compensation structures in levels of our Executive Directors.
the markets in which we operate and for the retention of key talent during acquisitions.
The plan will not be used on a normal basis for Executive Directors As was announced on 29 November 2017 in connection with his appointment as and will not form part of any of their normal long term incentive: and interim CEO, David Warren was granted a step-up allowance of 212,000, to be paid The introduction of a UK tax-favoured all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP in addition to his current base salary of 488,000 for the duration of his appointment and anequivalent international arrangement as interim CEO, providing a new interim salary of 700,000.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Summary of key executive remuneration decisions Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Departing Chief Executive Officer Interim Chief Executive Officer Italiana & Director of Capital stepped down on 29 November Role Chief Financial Officer Markets 2017 Name David Warren Raffaele Jerusalmi Xavier Rolet 2 Previous salary 488,000 with effect from 1 April 2017 212,000 step-up allowance 520,000 800,000 2 Annual salary 500,000 2.5% with effect from 1 April 2018 200,000 step-up allowance 525,000 1% n a 3 5 Bonus for financial year ending % of salary 164% of salary 160% of salary 177% of salary 31 December 2017 5 % of maximum 82% 80% 79% total amount 827,000 830,000 1,300,000 1 Of which 50% is deferred 413,500 415,000 650,000 Max.
bonus opportunity % of salary 200% 200% 225% Sterling equivalent of 275% of LTIP award subject Salary 1,443,750 at prevailing 4 to performance 300% of Salary 1,500,000 rate at time of grant n a 1.
All Executive Directors meet the MSR and so, in relation to 2017 performance and policy, will be able to elect whether to defer 100% into shares, or 100% into cash, or 50% into shares and 50% into cash.
Any deferral into shares will be disclosed at a later date once confirmed.
From 2018 performance year, deferral will be mandated 100% into shares 2.
Interim salary of 700,000 including step-up allowance for the duration of his appointment as interim CEO 3.
Percentage of full year salary of 506,000, comprising 11 months at 488,000 base salary and 1 month at 700,000 interim salary 4.
LTIP award of 300% of 500,000 i. e. does not include step-up allowance 5.
Bonus awarded only for 11 months worked in 2017 Departure arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer As announced on 29 November 2017, Xavier Rolet agreed to step down from his role as Chief Executive Officer and Director of LSEG plc.
The financial terms associated with his departure were agreed with Mr Rolet at the time of the CEO succession announcement on 19 October 2017.
We are honouring these agreed contractual commitments, all of which are in accordance with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy and are detailed on pages 7680.
Remuneration arrangements for the interim Chief Executive Officer As announced on 29 November 2017 in connection with the departure arrangements for Mr Rolet, David Warren was appointed as interim CEO with immediate effect.
As part of this appointment, changes were made to his terms until a permanent CEO successor is appointed.
Mr Warren was granted a step-up allowance of 212,000 in addition to his current base salary of 488,000 for the duration of his appointment as interim CEO, providing a new interim salary of 700,000.
As stated in the Salary review for Executive Directors section above, the Committee has decided to increase his base salary in relation to his role as Chief Financial Officer by 2.5% to 500,000.
His step up allowance will be reduced by 12,000 to 200,000, providing an unchanged interim salary of 700,000 for the duration of his appointment as interim CEO.
Full details of Mr Warrens remuneration arrangements are detailed on page 87.
Concluding remarks The Committee continues to ensure the Groups approach to remuneration takes into account best practice and market trends in the financial services sector and wider market while continuing to support the commercial needs of the Group, the interests of shareholders and of all other stakeholders.
We are grateful for shareholder feedback in helping to shape our enhanced policy and we look forward to your support for these proposals at the forthcoming AGM.
Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 March 2018 74 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, and the relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
This years disclosure has been split into 2 sections: Remuneration Policy Report Summary pages 7680 The Remuneration Policy Report was subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM and was passed with 98.5% support.
As explained in the Chairmans statement, we have incorporated a number of enhancements to our policy to align with good market practice.
As the enhancements are deemed preferential to shareholders, we are not seeking approval for a new policy.
A summary of the Policy Report, including these enhancements, is set out on pages 76 to 80.
The full Remuneration Policy Report is set out in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report as part of our 2016 Annual Report.
Annual Report on Remuneration pages 8194 This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have been operated during the past financial year 12 months from January to December 2017, and also provides details on how we intend to operate our policy during the coming year FY2018.
This report will be put to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
The Annual Report on Remuneration includes detail on both the departure termsfor the Chief Executive Officer and the employment terms applicable to theinterim Chief Executive Officer see further detail on page 87, all ofwhich are in accordance with the existing shareholder-approved RemunerationPolicy.
The Annual Report on Remuneration also includes detail on 4 share plans for which we will seek shareholder approval at our forthcoming AGM page 86.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Our Remuneration Policy Report was subject to a binding shareholder vote at the ELEMENT Salary ELEMENT Benefits Retirement benefits 2017 AGM and was approved with 98.5% of the votes.
Accordingly, it had a binding effect on the Group from that date.
However, as stated in the Chairmans statement, PURPOSE AND Provides a core element of remuneration which reflects PURPOSE AND Provide local market competitive benefits and support the wellbeing Provide Executives with retirement benefits.
we have incorporated a number of enhancements to our policy to align with good the responsibilities of the role.
LINK TO LINK TO market practice.
A summary of the Policy Report, including these enhancements, Support recruitment and retention of high-calibre people.
STRATEGY STRATEGY Enables the recruitment and retention of individuals of is set out on pages 76 to 80.
The full Remuneration Policy Report is set out in the the calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
2016 Directors Remuneration Report as part of our 2016 Annual Report.
OPERATION Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by taking OPERATION A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain core Provision of annual pension allowance, invested in the Companys Current policy table for Executive Directors into account a range of factors, including: benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and defined contribution plan or taken as a cash allowance.
A summary of the key elements of remuneration for Executive Directors is shown additionally, in Italy only, disability, accident, car, fuel allowance and size and scope of the role: In certain jurisdictions, more bespoke pension arrangements may be in the following table and includes the following enhancements to our policy for luncheon vouchers together with in the UK a taxable cash allowance provided.
In such circumstances, the Committee will give appropriate which can be spent on elective benefits such as additional medical, life operation from FY2018: skills and experience of the individual: consideration to local employment legislation, market practices and the or dental cover.
market competitiveness relative positioning: ENHANCEMENTS TO POLICY FOR 2018: Car transportation may also be provided for Executive Directors where performance of the Group and of the individual: appropriate.
wider market and economic conditions: and The mandatory deferral of 50% of bonus will be into shares only Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee reserves the level of increases being made across the Group.
right to provide our Executives with the appropriate level of security A 2 year holding period will be added to the current 3 year Any changes are normally effective from 1 April each year.
arrangements to allow them to perform their duties in the safest performance period of the LTIP, resulting in a total 5 year period possible conditions.
from the date of grant: and Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide reasonable The Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR will be increased additional benefits as appropriate for example, relocation and other from 200% to 300% of base salary allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for a finite period, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights back to the home country for the Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs The above enhancements are highlighted in the summarised Policy are met by the Company if employment is terminated by the Company, Report, for ease of reference.
other than for just cause.
Where necessary any benefits may be grossed up for taxes.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to support the long term interests of the Executives are eligible to participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save Group.
The Group is committed to paying for performance, rewarding the senior As You Earn Option Scheme or international equivalent on the same management team only when its goals are achieved.
Each year the remuneration basis as other employees.
framework and the packages of the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance Executive Committee are reviewed by the Committee to ensure that they continue and indemnification.
The Committee takes into account multiple reference points when setting pay including companies in the FTSE 100, the broader There is no defined maximum salary.
There is no defined maximum.
The maximum annual pension contribution cash allowance is 25% MAXIMUM MAXIMUM of salary except where determined by local market practice.
Financial Services sector and other international exchange groups.
OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY Increases are determined based on the factors described Benefits plans are set at what are in the Committees opinion in the Operation row.
reasonable levels in order to be market competitive for their local In Italy, Mr Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits The Committee has taken the following areas into account in establishing the jurisdiction and are dependent on individual circumstances.
which are calculated on salary, benefits and annual bonus.
Actual The Committees normal approach is to initially consider benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation Group Remuneration Policy: increases within the range awarded to other employees.
Participation in the Save As You Earn Option Scheme or in force from time to time.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine More significant increases may be awarded in certain international equivalent is capped at the same level as all other Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions which are funded by the a focus on shareholder value circumstances, such as where there is a significant change participants, which is determined by the Company within the Group at a rate fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis in the scale, scope or responsibility of a role, development parameters of applicable legislation.
the continued global expansion of the Group private pension plan.
TFR is calculated on salary, capped benefits, within a role and or significant market movement.
the need to attract and retain senior management from the international The annual base salaries in FY2017 and for FY2018 for finance and technology sectors each Executive Director are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
the Groups intent to be mindful of best practice as expressed by institutional shareholders and their representative bodies: and PERFORMANCE n a PERFORMANCE n a n a MEASURES MEASURES the unique position of the Group at the heart of capital markets FURTHER INFORMATION The full Remuneration Policy Report is set out in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report as part of our 2016 Annual Report, which can be found on our website: https: www.
76 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report ELEMENT Salary ELEMENT Benefits Retirement benefits PURPOSE AND Provides a core element of remuneration which reflects PURPOSE AND Provide local market competitive benefits and support the wellbeing Provide Executives with retirement benefits.
the responsibilities of the role.
LINK TO LINK TO Support recruitment and retention of high-calibre people.
STRATEGY STRATEGY Enables the recruitment and retention of individuals of the calibre required to execute the Groups strategy.
OPERATION Base salaries are normally reviewed annually by taking OPERATION A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain core Provision of annual pension allowance, invested in the Companys into account a range of factors, including: benefits such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and defined contribution plan or taken as a cash allowance.
additionally, in Italy only, disability, accident, car, fuel allowance and size and scope of the role: In certain jurisdictions, more bespoke pension arrangements may be luncheon vouchers together with in the UK a taxable cash allowance provided.
In such circumstances, the Committee will give appropriate which can be spent on elective benefits such as additional medical, life skills and experience of the individual: consideration to local employment legislation, market practices and the or dental cover.
market competitiveness relative positioning: Car transportation may also be provided for Executive Directors where performance of the Group and of the individual: appropriate.
wider market and economic conditions: and Due to the high profile of the Group, the Committee reserves the level of increases being made across the Group.
right to provide our Executives with the appropriate level of security Any changes are normally effective from 1 April each year.
arrangements to allow them to perform their duties in the safest possible conditions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain affordable and competitive.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide reasonable additional benefits as appropriate for example, relocation and other allowances including expatriate assistance, housing and school fees for a finite period, tax preparation and filing assistance and flights back to the home country for the Executive and his family.
Repatriation costs are met by the Company if employment is terminated by the Company, other than for just cause.
Executives are eligible to participate in the Groups HMRC-approved Save As You Earn Option Scheme or international equivalent on the same basis as other employees.
Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance and indemnification.
There is no defined maximum salary.
reasonable levels in order to be market competitive for their local In Italy, Mr Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits jurisdiction and are dependent on individual circumstances.
Actual The Committees normal approach is to initially consider benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation increases within the range awarded to other employees.
Under the Italian Trattamento di Fine More significant increases may be awarded in certain international equivalent is capped at the same level as all other Rapporto TFR, he receives contributions which are funded by the circumstances, such as where there is a significant change participants, which is determined by the Company within the Group at a rate fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr Jerusalmis in the scale, scope or responsibility of a role, development parameters of applicable legislation.
The annual base salaries in FY2017 and for FY2018 for each Executive Director are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
PERFORMANCE n a PERFORMANCE n a n a MEASURES MEASURES London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 77 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report ELEMENT Annual bonus LTIP Share ownership Long Term Incentive Plan 2014 PURPOSE AND Rewards annual performance against challenging Incentivises performance over the longer term Ensures alignment with financial, strategic and individual targets linked to through the award of performance related shares.
STRATEGY Aligns reward with long-term, sustainable Group Deferral reinforces retention and enhances performance and a focus on shareholder value.
alignment with shareholders by encouraging longer-term focus and sustainable performance.
OPERATION The Group operates a Group-wide bonus pool which Under the LTIP 2014, which was approved by Enhancement: Executive Directors is funded based on the achievement of financial shareholders at the 2014 AGM, awards of shares are expected to build up share and strategic goals of the Group.
Allocations to or equivalent are granted annually subject to ownership over a period of 5 individual Executive Directors are made from this performance conditions.
years and maintain holdings pool based on the Committees assessment of their of at least 3x base salary.
Enhancement: Awards normally vest subject to individual performance, taking into account the performance targets assessed over a performance Groups financial and strategic performance and period, normally of at least 3 financial years the achievement of any individual objectives with an additional holding period of 2 years.
The Committee has discretion to set different Performance targets are reviewed and set performance periods if it considers them to by the Committee at the beginning of each be appropriate.
The Committee shall determine the extent to Awards are determined by the Committee after which the performance measures have been met.
the year end based upon the actual performance The Committee may make adjustments to against these targets.
performance targets if an event occurs that the Committee determines that an adjustment is The Committee applies judgement where necessary appropriate.
The performance targets will be at to ensure approved pay-out levels are reflective of least as challenging as the ones originally set.
Dividends or equivalents may be paid on 50% of the annual bonus will be subject to vesting.
Unvested awards are subject to a malus mandatory deferral, normally for a period provision and vested awards are subject to of 2 years.
Enhancement: Bonus deferral will be 100% into shares.
Dividends or equivalents may be paid in respect of deferred shares on vesting.
Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions as described below.
Paid bonuses and vested awards are subject to clawback as described below.
Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 225% of Although there is a facility for maximum awards of up MAXIMUM salary for CEO and 200% of salary for other Executive to 400% of salary under the plan rules in exceptional OPPORTUNITY Directors for maximum performance.
cases, it is expected that awards under this plan will normally be up to 300% of salary.
PERFORMANCE Based on a combination of financial e. g. adjusted The Committee determines performance targets operating profit, strategic and individual each year to ensure that the targets are stretching MEASURES performance targets.
Strategic objectives include and support value creation for shareholders while key targets under the strategic pillars of developing remaining motivational for management.
our partnership approach, driving global growth Vesting of awards is subject to achievement of total and delivering best in class capabilities.
These shareholder return and financial performance targets.
strategic objectives also impact financial results For grants under this LTIP, awards are subject to in the medium term.
absolute TSR and adjusted EPS measures.
The Committee will set the detail and mix of Measures will normally be equally weighted but in performance measures, targets and weighting any event, any total shareholder return element will based on the strategic objectives at the start of represent at least 50% of the award.
At least 50% of the targets relating to the annual bonus pool in any year will be subject For each performance element, achievement of the to financial measures.
threshold performance level will result in no more than 25% of the maximum award paying out.
For No bonuses are paid for below threshold achievement of the maximum performance level, performance.
The Committee may award 100% of the maximum pays out.
Normally, there is any amount between zero and 100% of the straight-line vesting between these points.
The performance measures are applied in the performance year only.
78 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Notes to the Policy Table Treatment of variable incentives Malus and clawback provisions Annual bonus Individuals may be considered for an annual bonus in A malus provision applies to awards granted under the 2014 LTIP and to unvested respect of the period prior to cessation.
Any award would be awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This would allow the Committee in its at the discretion of the Committee, subject to the Executive absolute discretion to determine, at any time prior to the vesting of an award, to Directors performance and period of employment.
reduce, cancel or impose further conditions in certain circumstances, including i where there is a material misstatement or restatement of the results of the Deferred Bonus For good leavers, awards vest at the normal vesting date, Group in its audited accounts, ii the negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of although the Committee may determine that awards vest Plan 2014 on cessation of employment.
The award will usually vest in the individual which results in significant reputational damage to the Group or full or on a prorated basis at the Committees discretion.
which has a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group or the Good leavers are those who cease to be an employee of a business opportunities of the Group, or iii if the individual is a member of a member of the Group by reason of death, injury, disability, company in the Group which suffers significant reputational damage or material ill-health, redundancy, the sale of the individuals employing business or the transfer of the Company out adverse effect on its financial position or on its business opportunities.
of the Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in its discretion, having regard to a range of A clawback provision applies to vested awards granted under the 2014 LTIP, vested relevant factors including the Executive Directors awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and annual bonuses paid previously.
This performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
would allow the Committee in its absolute discretion to claw back from individuals some or all of the vested awards or paid bonus in certain circumstances, including Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
Where an individual is i if there is a material misstatement or restatement of the results of the Group summarily dismissed, all his awards will lapse.
in its audited accounts, ii the negligence, fraud or serious misconduct of the individual which results in significant reputational damage to the Group or a Deferred awards are subject to malus and vested awards are subject to clawback as detailed above.
material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group or the business opportunities of the Group, or iii if the individual is a member of a company in the For good leavers, awards will normally vest at the normal Long-Term Group which suffers significant reputational damage or material adverse effect on vesting date and following the end of the performance Incentive its financial position or on its business opportunities.
Clawback will normally apply period, unless the Committee determines that awards Plan 2014 for a period of 3 years following vesting of shares deferred cash bonus and or should vest following cessation of employment.
Vesting will be subject to performance and unless the Committee payment of bonus, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
determines otherwise or that another basis of reduction is appropriate prorated for time in employment.
Good Service contracts and payments for departing Directors leavers are those who cease to be an employee of a The Groups current policy is that Executive Directors service agreements should member of the Group by reason of death, injury, disability, ill-health, redundancy, and the sale of the individuals have notice periods that are no longer than 12 months.
The Group may terminate employing business or transfer of the Company out of the an Executive Directors service agreement by making a payment in lieu of notice Group, or any other reason which the Committee decides in of a sum equal to 12 months salary, pension, flexible benefits allowance, life and its discretion, having regard to a range of relevant factors medical insurance but excluding bonus and share incentives plus any accrued including the Executive Directors performance, length of service and circumstances of their departure.
Consideration will be given to appropriate mitigation terms to reduce payments in lieu of notice made on termination in the event of Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, the Executive Director commencing alternative employment, being appointed unvested awards will lapse.
as a Non-Executive Director or providing services pursuant to a consultancy Unvested awards are subject to malus and vested awards agreement in the 12 months following the Executive Directors departure.
are subject to clawback as detailed above.
The Group may pay an Executive Directors reasonable legal fees for receiving advice in connection with their employment.
The lawful termination mechanisms described above are without prejudice to the Groups ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach of the notice period referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages to the Executive Director.
Liquidated damages clauses are not used.
In the event of termination by the Group, each Executive Director may have an entitlement to compensation in respect of his statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK and potentially elsewhere.
Directors and Officers liability insurance and an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the law and the Groups Articles of Association are provided to the Executive Directors for the duration of their employment and for a minimum of 7 years following termination.
The Committee considers that this is consistent with current best practice and this approach will generally be adopted for new appointments.
Where appropriate and when recruiting non-UK based Directors, the Committee may agree different terms based on local legal requirements or market practice.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 79 Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level Non-Executive Directors receive a basic annual fee with Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits which is considered appropriate to attract individuals additional fees payable for committee chairmanship.
or entitlements other than their fees and reasonable with the necessary experience and ability to make an expenses.
Certain Non-Executive Directors are also entitled important contribution to the Groups affairs.
to receive fees from subsidiary companies.
Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration taxes including fees incurred in obtaining professional The Non-Executive Chairman of the Group and Senior Committee, and the Board is responsible for advice in the furtherance of their duties incurred in the Independent Director receive an all-inclusive fee for determining all other Non-Executive Director fees.
course of performing their duties are reimbursed to the role.
Fees are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain Fees are neither performance-related nor pensionable.
The Committee retains the flexibility to Non-Executive Directors are covered by the Directors increase, adjust and make one-off payments to and Officers insurance and indemnification.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate Non-Executive Directors based on their remit.
in the annual bonus or LTIP plans and are not entitled to any payments on termination.
Fees are set taking into account the level of responsibility of each Non-Executive Director and fees at other companies of a similar size and complexity.
The aggregate fees payable to all Non-Executives combined excluding the Chairman and excluding fees paid for any appointments on subsidiary boards are capped as set out in the Groups Articles of Association as they may be amended by a resolution of shareholders from time to time.
The current limit on the aggregate fees that are payable is 1,500,000 per financial year.
Details of current fees are set out on page 88 of the 2017 Annual Report.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with no notice period except for the Group Chairman who has a notice period of 6 months unless he is not re-elected by shareholders in which case his appointment will terminate immediately.
The Non-Executive Directors appointments are for an initial period of 3 years from the date of appointment and are also subject to re-election by shareholders.
80 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration This section sets out how remuneration arrangements have operated during the past financial year FY2017, and also provides details on how we intend to operate our policy during the coming year FY2018.
The information from this page 81 to page 94 has been audited where required under the regulations and is indicated as audited where applicable.
Value for Long Term Incentives shown for FY2017 represents estimated value 5.
Benefits represent the cash value of private medical, disability and life of share awards granted in 2015 that vest in April 2018.
The estimate is based insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel benefit.
on the confirmed 100% vesting of the EPS element and forecast 100% vesting 6.
Pension: mandatory INPS contributions calculated on salary, benefits of the TSR element, which will be confirmed in April 2018.
The value is based and bonus for the 12-month period.
on a 3 month average share price from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017, being 38.07.
Trattamento di Fine Rapporto mandatory arrangements calculated on salary, capped benefits, bonus and shares and paid into Mr Jerusalmis pension plan 2.
Annual pension allowance of 25% of salary.
Benefits include the cash value of private medical, income protection and life 9.
53,067 Performance shares vested on 27 August 2017 at 39.50 per share.
assurance plus expatriate allowances and commuting expenses including This equates to 2,096,147. cartransportation where appropriate with associated taxes.
36,189 Performance shares vested on 27 August 2017 at 39.50 per share.
Xavier Rolet This equates to 1,429,466.
Data reflects the 11-month period worked during 2017 as CEO.
Bonus awarded only for 11 months worked in 2017: all other elements are pro-rata for this 11 month period.
Benefits included the cash value of private medical, income protection and life assurance, Save As You Earn SAYE and commuting expenses with associated taxes including car transportation where appropriate.
The data also incorporates legal fees incurred in agreeing departure arrangements in relation to the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse and subsequently with the departure arrangements that were agreed in October 2017.
Mr Rolet contributed 500 per month to the SAYE plan in January and 250 per month between February and December 2017.
SAYE has been valued based on the monthly savings amount and the discount provided 20% 12.
106,111 Performance shares vested on 27 August 2017 at 39.50 per share.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 81 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Additional notes to the Single total figure of remuneration Audited Retirement Benefits Fixed pay In the UK, pension provision for our Executive Directors takes the form of a Base salary non-consolidated cash allowance.
When reviewing Executive Director salaries, and in line with our policy, the Committee considers multiple reference points including companies in the FTSE Xavier Rolet and David Warren receive an allowance equivalent to 25% of base 100, the broader Financial Services sector and other international exchange groups.
salary as a taxable cash supplement.
Only base salary is used to calculate pension entitlement and no other pension supplements apply.
Benefits A flexible benefits plan is offered, in which individuals have certain core benefits Raffaele Jerusalmi accrues mandatory state pension INPS benefits in Italy.
such as private medical, life assurance, income protection and, additionally in Actual benefit due at retirement is set out by the applicable Italian legislation in Italy only, disability, illness, accident, car, fuel allowance and luncheon vouchers force from time to time.
Under the Italian TFR, he receives contributions which are together with in the UK a taxable cash allowance which can be spent on elective funded by the Company at a rate fixed by local law and which are paid to Mr benefits such as additional medical, life or dental cover.
Both INPS and TFR contributions are included in the Single total figure of remuneration table on the previous page.
Where received as a cash supplement, this allowance is not used to calculate bonus payments or pension contributions.
Benefits are reviewed periodically to ensure Bonus awarded for FY2017 they remain affordable and competitive.
Executives are eligible to participate in Executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus based on meeting or the Groups HMRC-approved SAYE Scheme or international equivalent.
exceeding bonus targets that are set at the beginning of the year, looking at the Groups financial performance, strategic deliverables and their personal contribution.
Xavier Rolet and David Warren receive a flexible benefits allowance of 20,000 per annum, which is unchanged since last year.
In addition they receive benefits in The Committee also receives input from the Risk Committee with regard to kind which include private health care, permanent health insurance and life performance related to risk culture awareness, transparency and accountability assurance arrangements.
As an expatriate from the US to UK, David Warren is also entitled to receive The operation of the FY2017 annual bonus is as per last year.
For the financial year thefollowing: ending 31 December 2016, the Committee determined that the sole annual financial target should again be AOP.
The Committee considers AOP to be of Each year he is entitled to tax preparation and filing assistance in the US and particular significance for the Group and believes it should continue to be the the UK.
main financial measure for annual bonus plan purposes.
As per 2016, the The Group will meet the costs of repatriating Mr Warrens effects back to the US maximum bonus opportunity is 225% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and if it terminates his employment other than in circumstances such as serious 200% of salary for other Executive Directors.
For 2016 the balance between misconduct which would justify summary termination.
financial and strategic objectives for the Group bonus pool was 60:40, increased from 50:50 in 2015, reflecting the increasing importance of financial performance An annual allowance of 30,000 net per annum to cover flights between London to the Group.
This 60:40 balance is unchanged for 2017. and New York for Mr Warren and his family.
The Executive Directors awards are funded from the Group bonus pool: their Raffaele Jerusalmi receives benefits in kind that include private medical, disability individual awards are based on an assessment of their contribution weighted and life insurance cover, luncheon vouchers, car and fuel.
He also contributes against 55% Group AOP, 35% against strategic deliverables and 10% delivery towards the Italian mandatory national insurance system.
against personal objectives as determined by the Board.
There are no contractual malus or clawback provisions in place in relation to benefits.
82 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Determination of Bonus for FY2017 The Committee determined the overall Group bonus pool with reference to the 12 month performance period ending 31 December 2017.
The performance measures and targets are set out below: Performance Maximum Actual relative to percentage percentage Actual performance Target target of bonus of bonus 3 FY2017 Group AOP FY2017 AOP of 801m.
Above target 60 52% Group Bonus Strategic Robust management and growth of core business during and subsequent to proposed Above target 40 30% Pool Deliverables merger with Deutsche Brse.
Although the proposed merger failed for exogenous reasons, it involved immense management effort.
Despite the significant resources and focus required to progress the discussions, the business continued to outperform on financial targets during and after the process: Successful and well-received Investor Day held in June 2017: Leadership of regulatory engagement navigation and execution of Brexit strategy and successful preparation for go-live of MiFID II: Growth in international markets and global reach through our global brands FTSE Russell and SwapClear in the US and Asia, and strengthening relationships with Middle East and China: Successful acquisitions of Mergent Inc. and The Yield Book fixed income analytics platform and Citi Fixed Income Indices business: Achievement of FTSE-Russell indexes integration 5 year revenue synergies of US$48 million: Strategic increase of shareholding in LCH Group from 58% to 66% and 10 year derivatives clearing partnership with Euronext N. V. : LCH S. A. launched CDSClear client clearing and repo clearing on German debt: Launch of LCH SwapAgent, a service designed to simplify the processing, margining and settlement of non-cleared derivatives, and other key new products: 2 billion EMTN strengthening debt capital structure, facilitating future investments: Delivery of BSL into full operation in Sri Lanka and substantial subsequent upscaling: and Focus on core operations through the disposal of non-growth and low margin businesses, for example ISPS, MillenniumIT ESP and Exactpro.
AOP excludes amortisation of purchased intangibles, non-underlying items and unrealised net investment gains losses at LCH 2.
For the FY2017 Group AOP bonus measure, Threshold was set at Target minus 5% and Maximum was set at Target plus 13% 3.
For 2017 the Remuneration Committee excluded 11 million contribution by The Yield Book businesses from AOP for the Group bonus pool calculation Group adjusted operating profit performance Strategic deliverables performance % of total bonus % of total bonus Maximum: 40% 60 Maximum: 833m 60% 40 50 Achieved: 801m 52% Achieved: 30% 30 40 30 Target: 736m 30% Target: 20% 20 20 10 10 Threshold: 5% Threshold: 698m 8% 0 0 1.
Actual result for Group AOP performance is 86% of maximum 2.
Actual result for Strategic deliverables performance is 75% of maximum London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 83 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer The Group welcomed 194 companies to our markets in the year, raising a As well as being an exemplary Group CFO, David Warren has stepped up as combined total of 44.2 billion 2016: 25.6 billion in new and further issues.
interimCEO, providing vital continuity and leadership during the period of This has been achieved despite significant levels of uncertainty around the changefor the Group.
potential outcomes of the Brexit negotiations between the EU and UK which has required significant engagement with key stakeholders.
David has led the focus on all aspects of financial performance, driving income growth by focusing on a successful mix of core product lines, supporting new Other notable achievements include preparing our business for the launch of opportunities and ensuring successful integration of recent acquisitions.
Notable MiFID II in January 2018, AIM capital raised since launch reaching 105 billion, integration success includes Russell Indexes, where the Group has achieved the launch of the ELITE Basket Bond, and launch of the International Securities 5 year US$48 million revenue synergies from the acquisition 2 years ahead of Market in London.
In addition to the new products launched in-year, 2017 has target.
As the Groups income grows, David has reinforced continued discipline in seen growth in products launched in 2016 such as CurveGlobal and ELITE Club operating cost levels and focus on delivering value from our investments for growth.
Deal as our customers respond positively to our continued innovation.
David has led the Group through several refinancing activities in 2017: Refinancing Departing Chief Executive Officer of short dated facilities, rebalancing of bank bond debt mix with 1 billion Euro The Group has delivered another strong financial performance with growth across bond and 600 million 5 year bank facilities, plus 1 billion Euro CP Programme all core business areas.
Although the proposed merger with Deutsche Brse failed launched, strengthening debt capital structure, materially reducing borrowing for exogenous reasons, it involved immense management effort and despite the costs and strengthening lending appetite that would facilitate further small significant resources and focus required to progress the merger discussions, the medium sized investments.
This activity and the translation of Group financial business continued to outperform on financial targets during and after the process.
performance into a strong cashflow has seen credit rating upgrades from both Standard & Poors and Moodys in the year, enhancing lending bank appetite to Following the strong historic financial performance, the Executive Directors provide headroom for further investments.
and key members of the of the Groups Leadership Team held a successful and well-received Investor Day in June 2017, whereby our investors were updated on David was central to the Groups M&A activities in the year, which included the our medium term performance expectations and financial targets.
acquisition of Mergent Inc, a leading provider of business and financial data on public and private companies: and The Yield Book fixed income analytics platform The Groups openness to innovation was demonstrated by the launch of numerous and Citi Fixed Income Indices, an index business including the World Government new products, services and initiatives that expand and leverage our open access Bond Index WGBI.
In addition, our shareholding of LCH Group was increased strategy.
Notable examples include: International Securities Market, ELITE Basket from 57.8% to 65.9% and a 10-year derivatives clearing partnership was achieved Bond 112 million 10-year bond, LCH SwapAgent, CDSClear client clearing, MTS with Euronext N. V. Global Collateral Management and the launch of Russell 2000 Index futures on CMEs Globex platform.
David has also led the focus on core operations through the disposal of our nongrowth and low margin businesses, including ISPS, Exactpro and MillenniumIT ESP.
Despite strong economic performance, aspects of Xaviers operating style and the uncertainty surrounding whether or not he was prepared to give his consent Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana & Director of Capital Markets to continue in office if the second resolution of the 19 December 2017 General In addition to his responsibilities as an Executive Director for the Group, Raffaele Meeting was passed negatively impacted relationships between him and the Jerusalmi has led our capital markets and Post Trade divisions in Italy.
As was announced at the time, Xaviers garden leave was accelerated and challenging macroeconomic backdrop and low levels of volatility he has continued he agreed to step down as CEO on 29 November 2017, resulting in him working to promote innovation and drive growth.
Capital markets had a 6% increase in 11 of 12 months of the year.
The Committee considered this and deemed it revenues to 391 million FY2016: 368 million.
appropriate to pro-rate his FY2017 bonus accordingly.
Based on the above context and an assessment of individual performance, the Remuneration Committee awarded bonuses to each of the Executive Directors as follows: Interim Chief Executive Officer Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Italiana Departing Chief Executive Officer Role Chief Financial Officer & Director of Capital Markets stepped down on 29 November 2017 1 2 Bonus for FY2017 % of salary 164% of salary 160% of salary 177% of salary 1 2 % of maximum 82% 80% 79% total amount 827,000 830,000 1,300,000 Of which 50% is deferred 413,500 415,000 650,000 Bonus Component Financial Performance 55% 86% of maximum 86% of maximum 86% of maximum Strategic Deliverables 35% 75% of maximum 75% of maximum 75% of maximum Personal Objectives 10% 80% of maximum 60% of maximum 50% of maximum 1.
Percentage of full year salary of 506,000, comprising 11 months at 488,000 base salary and 1 month at 700,000 interim salary 2.
Bonus awarded in relation to the 11 months worked as CEO in 2017 84 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Compulsory deferral under existing Remuneration Policy Executive Directors must compulsorily defer 50% of their bonus for a period of 2 years.
This provision applies to the bonus amount for the FY2017 bonus above and operates as follows: Until the minimum shareholding requirement of 2x base salary is reached, the percentage of bonus that is deferred will be deferred 100% into shares: and Once the level of minimum shareholding has been reached, individuals are able to elect to defer under 3 different approaches: 100% of the deferral amount into shares: 50% into shares and 50% into cash: or 100% into cash.
Dividend equivalents will be paid in respect of deferred shares on vesting.
Long term incentive plan LTIP All currently outstanding LTIP awards have been made under the 2014 LTIP.
Awards granted in August 2014 with a performance period ended in FY2017 The performance period for the absolute TSR element of the Performance Share awards ended in August 2017.
The awards granted in 2014 were based on absolute TSR performance in the 3 years from grant, and adjusted EPS performance in the 33-month performance period to December 2016.
Over the period annualised absolute TSR performance in the 3 years to August 2017 was 30% per annum and therefore vested at 100% for this element.
The Company also delivered average adjusted EPS growth of 10.5% per annum over the performance period and therefore vested at 81%.
Vesting price as at 27 August 2017 was 39.50.
Awards granted in April 2015 with a performance period ending in FY2018 The value shown in the single figure table on page 81 for the financial year ending December 2017 represents the estimated value of the 2015 awards which will vest in April 2018.
The estimate is based on the confirmed 100% vesting of the EPS element and forecast 100% vesting of the TSR element, which will be confirmed in April 2018.
The estimated value is based on a 3 month average share price from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017.
The final vesting outcome including the actual share price at vesting following the end of the performance period will be disclosed in the next Annual Report on Remuneration covering FY2018.
The performance conditions applying to awards granted in April 2015 are as follows: EPS element 50% average adjusted EPS growth TSR element 50% absolute TSR growth Proportion of relevant element which vests Less than 6% p. a.
25% 12% p. a. or more 16% p. a. or more 100% Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Further to the financial year-end change, awards made in FY2015 and onwards returned to being measured over 36 months, on a calendar year basis, for EPS.
The financial year-end change did not affect the TSR measurement period which remained 3 calendar years from grant.
LTIP Awards Granted in FY2017 Audited Awards during FY2017 were granted in April under the LTIP and were made with a value of 300% of salary for David Warren, 275% of salary for Raffaele Jerusalmi at rate of 1 1.18, and 300% for Xavier Rolet.
The same EPS performance conditions and vesting schedules described above for 2015 awards also apply to these 2017 awards: similarly for TSR, except that the TSR performance range was set at 6% to 14% further to shareholder consultation at that time.
Interim Chief Executive Officer Executive Director, CEO of Borsa Departing Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Italiana & Director of Capital Markets stepped down on 29 November 2017 2014 LTIP Nil-cost performance % of salary 300% of salary 275% of salary 300% of salary 2 options granted on 3 April 2017 1,214,128 being sterling equivalent Face value 1,464,000 of 1,430,000 on date of grant 2,400,000 1 Share price 31.71 31.71 31.71 Number of LTIP shares granted 46,168 38,288 75,685 1.
The share price of 31.71 was determined using the closing price MMQ on 31 March 2017 and approved by the Share Scheme Committee a sub-committee of the Remuneration Committee 2.
TSR is measured over a 60 day trailing average at the start and end of the 3 year performance period which will end on 2 April 2020.
EPS is measured over 3 financial years ending 31 December 2019 and compared to the FY2016 baseline London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 85 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Other share plans SAYE Share plan rules and approvals All UK employees, including Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the We will seek shareholder approval for 4 share plans rules at our forthcomingAGM.
HM Revenue & Customs approved Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE.
Under the These reflect routine course of business as well as our continued commitment to rules of the SAYE, participants can save up to 500 each month, for a period alignment with shareholder interests through employee share ownership.
At the end of the saving period, savings plus interest may be used Renewal of our approved International Sharesave Plan ISP, which reaches the to acquire shares by exercising the related option.
end of its 10 year lifespan in July 2018.
As detailed in the Other share plans section above, the plan currently operates in 6 countries and over 50% of eligible The options may be granted at an exercise price which represents a discount of employees participate globally.
up to 20% to market value at the date of invitation.
No performance conditions are attached to SAYE options.
There is also an International Sharesave Plan ISP, Approval of our Restricted Share Award Plan, which reaches the end of its 10 which is designed to provide share options to Group employees, including year lifespan in May 2018.
The plan will continue to be used primarily for key Executive Directors, who are not based in the UK on similar terms to the options new hires to replicate deferred compensation forfeited from prior employment that are available to UK employees through the SAYE.
Employees in France, reflecting the increased prevalence of deferred compensation structures in the Hong Kong, Italy, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and the US participate in the ISP.
As a core markets in which we operate and for the retention of key talent during component of our employee proposition and benefits offering it acts as a modest acquisitions.
The plan will not be used on a normal basis for Executive Directors retention tool with over 50% of eligible employees participating globally.
and will not form part of any of their normal long term incentive: and The introduction of a UK tax-favoured all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP Xavier Rolet contributed 250 per month into the 20142017 scheme prior to its and anequivalent international arrangement.
Together with our existing UK maturity date in March 2017 and contributes 250 per month into the 20152018 and International Sharesave plans, the SIP is intended to present an opportunity SAYE scheme.
foran all-employee offering including those jurisdictions where we do not operate Sharesave, as our footprint extends through acquisition and increasedglobal reach.
Should the Restricted Share Award Plan be utilised as one component of any incoming Executives deferred compensation buyout, full consideration would be given to shareholder expectations and the Plans use and award construct be fully disclosed.
Any such award would be consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy.
86 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration arrangements for the departing Chief Executive Officer: Mr Rolets 2017 LTIP will be time pro-rated to 31 December 2018 the date As has been announced, Xavier Rolet stepped down from his role as CEO and bywhich it was originally intended that his employment would cease.
Director of LSEG plc on 29 November 2017 after almost 9 years of service.
Shouldhe elect to leave earlier than the expiry of his 12 month notice period once a successor has been appointed, the time pro-rating will apply tohis The financial terms below were agreed with Mr Rolet in October 2017 leaving date.
in connection with his announced departure and all are in line with the Mr Rolet will not be granted an LTIP award in 2018. shareholder approved Remuneration Policy 2017.
The Company is honouring those contractual commitments.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement MSR as Mr Rolet has demonstrated throughout his tenure, he is fully aligned to shareholders and has constantly far The following arrangements will apply in respect of Mr Rolets notice period: exceeded his MSR.
He will maintain the required MSR until his departure date.
Mr Rolets 12 month notice period commenced on 29 November 2017 and The Committee remains of the view that this treatment of Mr Rolets LTIP and will be spent on garden leave.
deferred bonus, agreed in October 2017, is appropriate in light of his significant He may accelerate his termination on 4 weeks notice in which case he will contribution to the Companys performance to date and the fact that he will remain receive a payment in lieu of notice, calculated by reference to base salary and available to be consulted on strategic and succession issues during his garden leave.
Such payment would be made in instalments and subject to reduction if alternative employment or engagement is secured.
The tables below set out the relevant number of shares under each of Mr Rolets 2015, 2016 and 2017 LTIP awards and his 2016 and 2017 Deferred Bonus Plan During his garden leave Mr Rolet will be available to be consulted at the DBP awards, along with date of vesting.
In the case of the LTIP, vesting and Boards discretion.
therefore future value is subject to the achievement of stretching performance measures, which are designed to provide a long-term focus towards enhanced Other terms agreed with Mr Rolet in October 2017, which were the subject shareholder value and do not reward for failure.
The DBP awards relate to deferred of careful consideration by the Committee, are as follows: bonuses already earned for previous performance years.
Annual bonus Mr Rolet received a bonus for the 11 months he worked Date of vesting as CEO in FY2017, 50% of which will be deferred until March 2020.
He will be Number of shares subject to Award under award performance Time pro-rating % not be eligible for a bonus in respect of FY2018.
2015 LTIP 91,949 April 2018 100% Deferred bonus he will be a good leaver and awards will vest, in line with 2016 LTIP 83,623 March 2019 100% vesting schedules, in March 2018, 2019 and 2020.
Assuming pro-rating by reference to 31 December 2018 LTIP he will be a good leaver and awards will vest on a wait and see basis in line with existing vesting schedules and subject to the normal performance conditions.
No time pro-rating will apply to his 2015 award as it is anticipated he will still Number of shares Award under award Date of vesting be on notice on its vesting date on 2 April 2018.
2016 DBP 27,874 March 2018 As it was anticipated that he would have been in employment for the 3 fullfinancial years applicable to the 2016 LTIP award, the Committee 2017 DBP 25,906 March 2019 determined that this award would vest in full subject to the achievement ofnormal performance conditions.
This was agreed with Mr Rolet as part The Company has made a contribution of 25,000 plus VAT towards Mr Rolets ofthe legal agreement reached in October 2017 in connection with his legal fees incurred in connection with the above arrangements that were agreed announced departure.
Remuneration arrangements for the interim Chief Executive Officer: For 2018 his LTIP award will be calculated by reference to his current base salary.
As announced on 29 November 2017 in connection with the departure His benefits, pension allowance and all other employment terms will arrangements for Mr Rolet, David Warren was appointed as interim CEO with remain unchanged.
As part of his appointment, the following changes were made to his terms until a permanent CEO successor is appointed: As stated in the Chairmans statement, the Committee has decided to increase his A step-up allowance of 212,000 will be paid in addition to his current base base salary in relation to his role as Chief Financial Officer by 2.5% to 500,000. salary of 488,000 for the duration of his appointment as interim CEO, providing His step up allowance will be reduced by 12,000 to 200,000: therefore Mr a new interim salary of 700,000.
Warrens interim salary of 700,000 is unchanged.
Any bonus paid for 2017 and 2018 performance will be adjusted on a pro-rata basis to reflect his new interim salary.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 87 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2018 1 January 2018 awards will vest 3 years after the grant date subject to absolute TSR and 2018 to 31 December 2018 adjusted EPS performance measures as follows i. e. the same measures as those Base salary operation: that applied to the 2017 awards : During the year, the Committee conducted its annual review of the base salary EPS element 50% average TSR element 50% Proportion of relevant levels of our Executive Directors.
adjusted EPS growth absolute TSR growth element which vests Less than 6% p. a.
0% The Committee has decided to increase Mr Warrens base salary for his role as 6% p. a.
25% Chief Financial Officer to 500,000, which is in line with average employee salary 12% p. a. or more 14% p. a. or more 100% increases of 2.5%.
The Committee has decided to increase the salary of Raffaele Straight-line pro-rating applies between these points Jerusalmi, Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana and Director of capital markets by 1% to 525,000.
Awards to be made during 2018 Based on the context and an assessment of individual performance, the Base salaries effective from 1 April 2018 are set out in the table below: Remuneration Committee intends to make grants to each of the Executive With effect from With effect from Directors under the 2014 LTIP as set out below.
Annual salary 1 April 2017 1 April 2018 1 1 Interim Chief Executive Executive Director, CEO of David Warren 488,000 500,000 2.5% Officer Chief Financial Borsa Italiana & Director step-up allowance of step-up allowance of Role Officer of Capital Markets 212,000 200,000 1 2 2018 LTIP award % of salary 300% of annual salary 275% of salary Raffaele Jerusalmi 520,000 525,000 1% subject to Sterling equivalent of 1.
Total salary for duration of appointment as interim CEO is 700,000 per annum performance 1,443,750 at prevailing Amount 1,500,000 FX rate at time of grant Annual bonus operation: 1.
Salary refers to annual salary with effect from 1 April 2018 For FY2018 the Group bonus pool will be determined based on performance 2.
The award for the interim CEO CFO is 300% of base salary of 500,000 i. e. does not include his step-up allowance measures weighted 60% Group AOP and 40% strategic deliverables to be intended to be tested over a 12-month performance period.
Non-Executive Directors fees for 2018 The Executive Directors awards are funded from the Group bonus pool: their Fees were last reviewed and revised with effect from 1 January 2016.
To reflect individual awards will be based on an assessment of their contribution weighted the increased scope, time commitment and complexity of the roles, the fees for against 55% Group AOP, 35% against strategic deliverables and 10% delivery the Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director roles have been against personal objectives, as determined by the Board.
The Committee increased, with effect from 1 January 2018.
The fee schedule for 2018 is determined that there should be a greater focus on the development of culture thereforeas follows: for the Group and a real emphasis on behaviour as to how the Executive With effect from With effect from Directors achieved their targets.
As such, for FY2018, performance against Fees 1 Jan 2017 1 Jan 2018 strategic and personal deliverables will include an assessment against specific Group Chairman 400,000 400,000 cultural objectives, including 360 degree feedback as an input measure.
Senior Independent Director 140,000 145,000 Non-Executive Director base fee 70,000 75,000 Any bonus payment will be paid out in March 2019.
In accordance with the enhancements made to our policy, mandatory deferral of 50% of bonus will Audit Committee Chairman 30,000 30,000 be into shares for a period of 2 years.
Remuneration Committee Chairman 30,000 30,000 Risk Committee Chairman 30,000 30,000 The minimum shareholding requirement is 3x base salary, increased from Audit Committee, Risk Committee 2x base salary in prior years.
or Remuneration Committee membership nil nil Deferred awards are subject to malus provisions.
Bonuses already paid out Nomination Committee nil nil under the Deferred Bonus Plan and vested awards are subject to clawback e. g. in cases of material misstatement or gross misconduct with judgement applied by the Committee.
For good leavers, awards will usually vest at the normal vesting date and in full, unless the Committee determines to scale back the award based on any factors deemed relevant.
Where an individual is not considered to be a good leaver, unvested awards will lapse.
Long Term Incentive Plan: Awards are intended to be made in 2018 under the 2014 LTIP, as described in our Remuneration Policy Report.
The 2018 LTIP awards will be granted under our enhanced Remuneration Policy and will therefore be subject to a 2 year holding period in addition to the current 3 year performance period, resulting in a total 5 year period from the date of grant.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply to these awards, allowing the Committee to reduce subsisting awards or request the refund of already paid or vested awards in certain circumstances e. g. material misstatement or gross misconduct.
The 88 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Non-Executive Directors remuneration is determined by the Board and is neither performance-related nor pensionable.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is intended to recognise the significant responsibilities of Directors and to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make an important contribution to the Companys affairs.
Comparisons are made with fees paid at FTSE 100 companies.
Travel and other appropriate expenses with associated taxes including fees incurred in obtaining professional advice incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to the Chairman and to the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys annual bonus or LTIP plans and are not entitled to any payments on termination.
Certain Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive fees from subsidiary companies, details of which are set out below.
The original date of appointment as Directors of the Company is as follows: Date of letter of Notice Date of LSEG Committee Other subsidiaries Name Date Appointed appointment Time to expiry period resignation membership chairmanship committees Paul Heiden 04 06 2010 04 06 2016 03 06 2019 None SID, Audit Chair, LSE plc Nomination, Remuneration, Risk Jacques Aigrain 01 05 2013 01 05 2016 30 04 2019 None Audit, Remuneration Chair LCH Remuneration Stephen OConnor 12 06 2013 12 06 2016 11 06 2019 None Audit, Nomination, Risk LSE plc Chair Donald Brydon 19 06 2015 19 06 2015 End of AGM 2018 6 months Group Chairman, LSE plc Chairman as Director: Nomination Chair, 01 07 2015 Remuneration as Chairman Mary Schapiro 01 07 2015 01 07 2015 30 06 2018 None Nomination, Remuneration Regulatory Advisory Group Chair Lex Hoogduin 04 12 2015 04 12 2015 03 12 2018 None None LCH Chairman David Nish 04 12 2015 04 12 2015 03 12 2018 None Audit, Risk 1 Andrea Sironi 01 10 2016 01 10 2016 30 09 2019 None Risk Borsa Italiana Chairman, LSEGH Italia Chairman 2 Val Rahmani 20 12 2017 20 12 2017 19 12 2020 None Risk 1.
Andrea Sironi was appointed to the Risk Committee on 21 June 2017 2.
Other fees relate to subsidiaries and other committees 2.
Taxable benefits relate to travelling expenses, including grossed up taxes where applicable 3.
Mary Schapiro received an annualised fee of 25,000 as Chair of the Regulatory Advisory Group 4.
Lex Hoogduin received an annualised fee of 350,000 or 306,668 using rate 1 1.14 for FY2017 as Chairman of LCH and 49,000 as a Group Director or 42,933 using rate 1 1.14 for FY2017.
Andrea Sironi received a combined annualised fee of 160,000 140,191 for his roles as Chairman and Director of Borsa Italiana and Chairman and Director of LSEGH Italia 6.
FY2016 totals incorporate prior directors who stood down from the Board in that year see FY2016 Directors Remuneration Report for full details London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 89 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Alignment between pay and performance Percentage change in remuneration of CEO Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and The following graph shows, for the financial period ended 31 December 2017 annual bonus for the CEO compared to the average of the representative sample and for each of the previous 8 financial periods, the TSR on a holding of the of UK employees all LSEG UK employees.
Where appropriate, amounts have been Companys ordinary shares of the same kind and number as those by reference annualised to provide a like-for-like comparison.
to which the FTSE 100 is calculated.
The TSR graph represents the value, at Salary Benefits Annual Bonus 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in London Stock Exchange Group plc on 1 3 CEO 0% 6% -14% 31 March 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index 2 Average pay of Group UK employees 2.5% 5% -10% over the same period.
As a member of the FTSE 100, we have chosen the FTSE 100 1.
The data refers to the departing CEO as he was in the role for the majority of the year.
Amounts Index as it is currently the most relevant index for benchmarking our performance have been annualised to provide a like-for-like comparison over the 9 financial periods.
This group has been selected to reflect the jurisdiction in which the CEO is based 3.
T his data refers to the departing CEOs core benefits and taxable expenses.
It does not include legal fees incurred in connection with departure arrangements in relation to the proposed merger with TSR chart v FTSE 100 over 9 financial periods Deutsche Brse and subsequently the departure arrangements that were agreed in October 2017 Relative importance of spend on pay 1,200 The table below shows the relative FY2017 versus FY2016 expenditure of the Group 1,000 on Dividends versus Total Employee Costs.
These figures are underpinned by 800 amounts from the Notes to the Financial Statements at the back of this report.
600 Annual Year-on-year increases % FY2017 FY2016 Increase 400 Dividends Paid In Financial Period 159m 130m 22% 200 1 Total Employee Costs 497m 429m 16% 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Dec Dec Dec Dec 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 Relative importance of spend on pay LSEG FTSE 100 m 600 16% Historic levels of CEO pay 497 500 Long-term 429 400 incentive Annual bonus vesting rates 300 CEO Single total payout against against Period ended: figure of maximum maximum 200 22% 12 months unless remuneration opportunity opportunity otherwise stated 159 CEO 000 % % 100 130 29 November 0 1 5 5 2017 Xavier Rolet 5,564 79% 100% 2016 2017 2016 2017 31 December Dividends Paid in Financial Period Total Employee Costs 4 4 2016 Xavier Rolet 6,880 91% 91% 1.
The increase in total employee costs is principally the result of expansion through acquisition 31 December Mergent Inc. and The Yield Book businesses 2015 Xavier Rolet 6,526 95% 94% 9 months ended 31 December 3 2014 Xavier Rolet 4,587 89% 50% 31 March 2014 Xavier Rolet 6,383 93% 100% 31 March 2013 Xavier Rolet 6,015 89% 100% 31 March 2012 Xavier Rolet 5,245 100% 65% 31 March 2011 Xavier Rolet 2,134 89% 31 March 2010 Xavier Rolet 1,873 71% 2 Clara Furse 400 49% 0% 1.
Xavier Rolet was in the role of CEO from 20 May 2009, appointed to the Board 16 March 2009 until he stepped down on 29 November 2017.
Data is as per the Single total figure table and therefore represents 11-month figures 2.
Clara Furse was in the role of CEO until 20 May 2009.
She resigned from the Board on 15 July 2009 3.
89% of maximum for the 9-month period to December 2014 equivalent to 67% of annualised maximum 4.
Value shown for the period ended 31 December 2016 represents the actual vesting of LTIP awards granted in 2014 that vested on 27 August 2017 at 39.50 5.
Forecast for LTIP awards to vest in April 2018.
The estimate is based on confirmed 100% vesting of the EPS element and forecast 100% vesting of the TSR element, which will be confirmed in April 2018 90 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Total Return rebased Apr-09 100 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests as at 31 December 2017 Audited All Executive Directors own shares outright.
David Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi currently own shares at a level exceeding their revised minimum required shareholding of 3x base salary based on a share price of 37.48 being the closing share price on 29 December 2017.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: 1 Shares held Options held Shareholding Unvested and Unvested and as at subject to subject Vested 31 December Owned performance to continued but not Requirement 2017 Requirement 2 Outright conditions employment exercised % salary % salary met Executive Directors 3 David Warren 59,378 142,827 27,323 300 456 Yes 4 5 Raffaele Jerusalmi 52,130 116,807 300 429 Yes Non-Executive Directors Paul Heiden 3,818 N A Jacques Aigrain N A Stephen OConnor N A Donald Brydon 5,000 N A Mary Schapiro N A Lex Hoogduin N A David Nish 1,065 N A Andrea Sironi N A Val Rahmani N A Directors who stood down from the Board during the year: 6 Xavier Rolet 330,356 251,257 54,220 200 1,548 Yes 1.
Xavier Rolet exercised 772 options under SAYE: no further options were exercised by the Directors during the year to 31 December 2017 2.
Refers to Deferred Bonus Plan and SAYE 3.
Calculated against 488,000 base salary, excluding step-up allowance 4.
Raffaele Jerusalmi elected to defer his 455,000 Deferred Bonus Plan Award for FY2016 into cash 5.
Shareholding as at 29 November 2017 Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Beneficial, Family and any Connected Persons Interests Audited Ordinary Options with Options without 1 2,3 Shares Held performance conditions performance conditions Total Interests 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Executive Directors David Warren 59,378 53,426 142,827 136,648 27,323 25,175 229,528 215,249 5 Raffaele Jerusalmi 52,130 80,861 116,807 137,157 168,937 218,018 Non-Executive Directors Paul Heiden 3,818 3,818 3,818 3,818 Jacques Aigrain Stephen OConnor Donald Brydon 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 Mary Schapiro Lex Hoogduin David Nish 1,065 550 1,065 550 Andrea Sironi Val Rahmani Directors who stood down from the Board during the year: 6 4 Xavier Rolet 330,356 601,088 251,257 292,822 54,220 51,562 635,833 945,472 1.
LTIP Performance shares are structured as nil-cost options 2.
Unvested awards in the Deferred Bonus Plan and share options granted under SAYE 3.
Deferred Bonus Plan shares are structured as nil-cost options: they are subject to continued employment and malus provisions 4.
Incorporates 440 SAYE options: the balance relates to Deferred Bonus Plan 5.
Raffaele Jerusalmi elected to defer his 455,000 Deferred Bonus Plan Award for FY2016 into cash 6.
There have been no further changes in these interests between 31 December 2016 and 2 March 2018 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 91 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Long Term Incentive Plan table The 2014 Long Term Incentive Plan has one element applicable to Executive Directors, a conditional award of Performance shares.
The awards are dependent on Absolute TSR performance for 50% of the award, with the other 50% dependent on an Adjusted EPS growth target.
Details of performance conditions are set out on page 88.
FY2018 Estimate: Average share price over the period from 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 price with vesting forecast at 100% 2.
Vesting of shares granted on 27 August 2017 at actual vesting price of 39.50 3.
All estimates are shown separately in bold.
They will be fully disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration 92 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Governance The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises the Chair and 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees remit includes the remuneration including the awards made under the performance-related incentive schemes where applicable of the Chairman of the Group, Executive Directors, the Executive Committee as well as other regulated staff.
Please see page 18 for details of the Groups Executive Committee.
At least 3 members of the Committee are considered to be independent.
Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in this Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website at www.
During the financial period ending 31 December 2017, the Committee held 3 scheduled meetings and 3 additional meetings called on at short notice, relating to CEO succession planning.
Here is a summary of the items they discussed: Routine Non-Routine February 2017 FY2016 Performance and Bonus approval Merger-related items FY2017 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of Shareholder consultation planning previous LTIP and DBP schemes Gender pay reporting Sharesave vesting and FY2017 grants Performance and determination of CEO and Executive Committee members remuneration FY2016 Directors Remuneration Report LCH Remuneration Committee proposals Regulatory updates July 2017 Deloitte Market Overview 2018 Remuneration Policy FY2016 Directors Remuneration Report and M&A activity Policy-Shareholder feedback Gender pay reporting FY2017 Performance and Bonus update FY2017 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of previous LTIP and DBP schemes Regulatory update LCH Remuneration Committee updates FY2017 Remuneration Committee calendar October 2017 Additional meetings held, relating to CEO succession planning December 2017 Deloitte Market Overview 2018 Remuneration Policy Governance updates M&A activity FY2017 Directors Remuneration Report key themes CurveGlobal update FY2017 Performance and Bonus update FY2018 Bonus considerations FY2018 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of previous LTIP and DBP schemes 2018 salary review LCH Remuneration Committee updates February 2018 FY2017 Performance and Bonus approval Shareholder consultation relating to FY2018 LTIP grants and anticipated vesting of Remuneration Policy enhancements This meeting took place during previous LTIP and DBP schemes Gender pay reporting and disclosure FY2018 and will be repeated in Performance and determination of former CEO Treatment of acquisitions and disposals next years report.
and Executive Committee members remuneration FY2017 Directors Remuneration Report LCH Remuneration Committee proposals Regulatory & governance updates To assist the Committee, the results of market surveys are made available.
Where appropriate, the Committee invites the views of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Human Resources and the Chief Risk Officer via the Risk Committee.
None of these individuals nor the Chairman participated in any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 93 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Statement of shareholder voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at the 2017 AGM: Votes for Votes against Votes cast Votes withheld Number % Number % Remuneration Policy Report 252,081,916 98.48 3,886,744 1.52 255,968,660 6,200,579 Annual Report on Remuneration 258,328,323 98.56 3,772,162 1.44 262,100,485 68,763 Advisors The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of recommendations from Outside appointments key stakeholders, including institutional investor bodies.
The Committee consults Executive Directors are allowed to accept appointments as Non-Executive with major shareholders on any key decisions taken.
Directors of other companies with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not represent a conflict of interest Deloitte LLP is the principal advisor appointed by the Committee to provide with the Companys activities and where the wider exposure gained will be independent advice on executive remuneration policy and practice, and reviews beneficial to the development of the individual.
Executive Directors may retain the implementation of our approved policy against current and emerging fees to encourage them to seek out the development opportunities and valuable corporate governance best practice.
During 2015, the Committee undertook experience afforded by these appointments and in recognition of the personal a competitive tender process for the role of Remuneration Committee advisor responsibility Executives assume in such roles and we would disclose these fees.
and re-appointed Deloitte as its principal advisor with effect from 1 April 2016.
At present, none of the Executive Directors are in receipt of additional fees.
During the year, Deloitte LLP received 150,000 excluding VAT based on actual time spent for these services.
In addition, Deloitte received 16,000 excluding No payments were made for loss of office during the year and no payments were VAT at the beginning of the year for advice related to the potential merger with made to past directors.
Separately, other parts of Deloitte LLP also advised the Company during 2017 in relation to tax, internal audit, consulting and transaction support Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors services.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte LLP is independent and objective.
Jacques Aigrain Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 March 2018 94 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017
