Group Chief Executives report Mike Wells Strong performance and continued profitable growth I am pleased to report that over 2017 our clear, consistent strategy, high-quality products and improving capabilities have enabled us to meet the needs of customers around the world better than ever before.
Our purpose is to help remove uncertainty In line with its strategy to transition towards demonstrates the strength of our from lifes big events.
Whether thats starting a more capital efficient, derisked business operational execution.
It also marks the a family, saving for a childs education or model, M&G Prudential agreed in March third set of objectives that we have 20 planning for retirement, we provide our 2018 to the sale of 12.0 billion of its successfully achieved within the last customers with financial peace of mind, shareholder annuity portfolio to Rothesay 10 years.
enabling them to face the future with greater Life.
Under the terms of the agreement, During 2017 we combined our UK and confidence.
We also invest our customers M&G Prudential has reinsured European life and asset management 20 money actively in the real economy, helping 12.0 billion of liabilities to Rothesay Life, businesses to form M&G Prudential, which not only to improve the lives of individuals which is expected to be followed by a Part delivered record levels of external asset and families, but also to build stronger VII transfer of the portfolio by the end of management net inflows of 17.3 billion in communities and drive the cycle of growth.
The capital benefit of this transaction 2017.
This contributed to combined assets will be retained within the Group to 4 Our strategy is aligned to structural trends: under management of 351 billion at support the UK demerger process.
the savings and protection needs of the fast 31 December 2017. growing middle class in Asia, the retirement In preparation for the UK demerger As in previous years, we comment on our income needs of the approximately 75 million process, and to align the ownership of the performance in local currency terms 1 baby boomers in the United States and the Groups businesses with their operating expressed on a constant exchange rate growing demand for managed savings structures, Prudential plc intends to basis to show the underlying business solutions among the ageing populations of transfer the legal ownership of its Hong trends in a period of currency movement.
the United Kingdom and Europe.
These Kong insurance subsidiaries from The trends are sustained, and we remain Prudential Assurance Company Limited focused on the opportunities they present.
M&G Prudentials UK regulated insurance entity to Prudential Corporation Asia We have continued to develop our Limited, which is expected to complete by products and our capabilities in order to the end of 2019. improve the way we meet customers needs.
We are creating new, better and Our financial performance more personalised products, and we have We have built on our good start to 2017 a flexible, collaborative approach to IFRS operating profit through disciplined execution of our incorporating the best digital technologies by business and currency strategy, again led by our businesses in Asia.
into our operations, while also leveraging % 2017 We announce today the achievement of our global scale to share new insights 35% our remaining 2017 objectives, which were across our businesses at pace.
The result is set in December 2013.
During the first half constant improvement in the way we serve of 2017, we exceeded the Group objective our customers, providing value both to GBP Other of underlying free surplus generation of at them and to our shareholders.
11% 18% least 10 billion from the beginning of 2014 In March 2018 the Group announced its 25% to the end of 2017.
By the end of 2017 we US$ linked intention to demerge its UK and Europe had generated 12.8 billion over this four 24% businesses M&G Prudential from year period.
Our Asia businesses delivered Prudential plc, resulting in two separately growth in IFRS operating profit based on US$ listed companies, with different investment 2 47% longerterm investment returns IFRS 40% characteristics and opportunities.
Our operating profit at a compound average businesses share common heritage, values 3 rate of 16 per cent over the period 2012 and purpose.
Looking forward, we believe to 2017, and underlying free surplus we will be better able to focus on meeting 3 generation of 1,078 million for the full Asia our customers rapidly evolving needs and year 2017.
This is testament to the strength, US to deliver longterm value to investors as two scale and diversity of our Asia platform, UK and Europe separate businesses.
On completion of the Segmental earnings of key businesses and excludes validates our focus on recurring premium other income and expenditure.
demerger, shareholders will hold interests health and protection business and in both Prudential plc and M&G Prudential.
04 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
