Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 91 Remuneration Committee report Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Key changes proposed and approved Members Dear Shareholders, atour2017 AGM include: The Remuneration Committee the Committee Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman is pleased to provide this update on our adoption of common metrics progress in implementing the remuneration 50%onEarnings per Share, 50% Elizabeth Corley policy approved at the May 2017 AGM the onTotalShareholder Return for all Nick Rose Policy.
We appreciated the high level of performance-related share awards: support we received 95.09% in favour and introducing reasonable discretion the continuing constructive dialogue we have fortheCommittee to modify the final had with a number of you.
The Committee outcomeof awards vesting in light remains sensitive to the broad range of themes ofimportant factors in the business: regarding executive remuneration expressed amending the structure of our by investors, the UK government and the Long-TermIncentive Plan applicable wider public, particularly as regards to restraint toourUK executivedirectors to ensure when setting quantum.
We believe such aminimum period from grant to final restraint is appropriate as long as remuneration release, based ona three-year performance remains reflective of the business environment period withafurther two-year holding and contains appropriate incentives to achieve period forallawards to be granted from theGroups business objectives.
In keeping 2018 onwards: and with this theme, I believe you will find that a simplification of the Long-Term Incentive ourchanges for 2018 are quite modest but construct applicable to the US executive arenevertheless responsive to the feedback director.
that the Committee received during the last shareholder consultation cycle.
To confirm, 2017 was a crossroads year for BAE Systems for2018, no revisions are proposed to our and the application of our Policy reflected executive remuneration framework which these circumstances.
Ian King retired from the would constitute a change to the Policy.
Company at the end of June having served for over 40 years, including leading BAE Systems as Chief Executive since 2008.
His retirement was handled precisely according to our Policy.
This transition had been anticipated and the decision-making with respect to succession and remuneration was undertaken with an eye to ensuring a smooth transition of leadership through a period of significant change in the business environment.
Thus, our then Chief Business performance and incentive outcomes in 2017 Operating Officer, Charles Woodburn, was 2017 2017 appointed Chief Executive with effect from performance incentive outcome 1July 2017 and his remuneration was adjusted Group EPS AIP 42.3p in accordance with the Policy.
Our Group Finance Director, Peter Lynas, was subsequently Group cash AIP 940 m asked to undertake enhanced responsibility for Group order intake AIP 19.3bn Procurement, Group Mergers & Acquisitions Average three-year EPS growth LTI 4.7% and UK Shared Services.
As previously announced, the base salary of the Group Three-year TSR LTI 49.1% Finance Director was increased to reflect Recordable Accident Rate per 100,000 employees AIP 564 theseexpanded responsibilities with effect Major injuries recorded AIP 28 from 1November 2017 and this adjustment was also in accordance with the Policy.
Below threshold AIP Annual Incentive Plan Between threshold and target LTI Long-Term Incentive Between target and stretch This resulted in the following incentive outcomes: 2017 annual bonus payouts for the executive directors ranged from 75.6% to 88.4% ofmaximum: and Performance Shares EPS granted to executive directors in March 2015 will vest at 46.9%.
Performance Shares TSR and Share Option awards granted at the same time did not meet their performance condition and will lapse.
BAE Systems 92 Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Committee report continued There are multiple considerations in the The Company remains subject to rapidlySummary of key decisions designof the overall framework.
First, is changing political, economic, defence and for 2017 thebalance of short-term and long-term security conditions around the world.
Second, is the interplay between circumstances require that we be responsive Approval of early retirement for Group and business segment results and tothe environment and innovate for the outgoingChief Executive Ian King individual accomplishments, as well as the long-run health of the business.
Thus, in inJune 2017. level of reward afforded to employees in October, we announced a restructure of Approval of remuneration package thewider Group.
Third, is to distinguish various of our operations, resulting in a applicable to newly-appointed between the precise numerical results number of senior leadership changes.
The ChiefExecutive CharlesWoodburn andthecharacterof the results themselves, Committee adjusted remuneration for the inJuly2017.
including the manner in which they are affected senior executives to reflect new achieved.
Fourth, is the balance between rolesand enhanced responsibilities.
In doing Salary of the Chief Executive is absolute shareholder value creation and so, the Committee adhered to the Policy.
beingincreased by 2.5% from theGroups performance relative to peers.
Throughout this period of transition, the Our short-term programme metrics are tied Committees overarching goal has remained As a result of his expanded role and toGroup performance, business segment constant to ensure that we are providing increased responsibilities, the salary of performance and individual goals, including compelling incentives for sustainable high the Group Finance Director increased the leadership behaviours that underpin performance by our executive team in a way by6.9% on 1 November 2017.
His BAE Systems Total Performance culture.
that is transparent to our stakeholders and is salaryisbeing increased by2.5% Ourlong-term incentive programme measures supported by them.
Further, our remuneration from1January 2018. absolute performance of the Group and programmes are designed to assure that Salary of the President and Chief performance relative to peers.
Our framework thereisstrong alignment between business Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. is intended to foster accountability for resultsand rewards conferred.
In reading isbeing increased by 3% from sustaining and growing the Group in a thisreport, we hope you will agree that the 1January2018.
resultsof our deliberations are consistent withthese purposes.
Approval of remuneration packages In addition to developing the overall fornewly appointed Executive remuneration framework, the Committee Context to the Committees decisions Committee members.
The Committee is responsible for the full assesses the level of challenge within our spectrum of executive employment matters: annual and long-term incentive plan targets.
Awards granted in spring 2017 of recruiting, promoting and retaining the best Annually, in November, the full Board reviews Performance Shares, Share Options top-level leaders, setting the incentives under and adopts the Integrated Business Plan.
and to US executive director only which these leaders operate, and monitoring Thereafter, the Committee reviews the Restricted Shares.
the results they produce and the manner specificbusiness targets metrics for the one Performance Shares subject to inwhich they produce them.
Our overall and three-year periods and examines the i 50%onEarnings per Share EPS remuneration framework has a number of underlying assumptions, including the degree growth 3% to 7% average annual specific goals.
It is designed to motivate of stretch contained within them.
After growth requirement : and ii 50% ourkey talent to achieve the Companys setting one and three-year targets, the onthe Total Shareholder Return TSR strategic objectives, to deliver on customer Committee periodically reviews progress percentile ranking against sector peer commitments, to lead and inspire employees, towards the attainment of the objectives.
comparator group and the companies and to drive value for our shareholders.
It is After the close of each year, the Committee inthe FTSE 100 index, with each also designed to be competitive in the various undertakes a thorough review of annual grouphaving equal weight.
markets in which we operate and compete andthree-year performance.
theCommittee regularly considers the overall Elimination of Share Options for construct of the remuneration package to UKexecutive directors and maintaining ensure that potential pay outcomes are expected value inPerformance Shares appropriate and reasonable against different for 2018 awards.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 93 2018 remuneration Long-Term Incentive LTI design The conversion from Share Options to As noted above, the changes for 2018 are simplification Performance Shares has been calculated quite modest but are nevertheless responsive As a further step towards simplification of inlinewith themethodology explained to the feedback that the Committee received ourLTI framework, having already taken the inourPolicy on page 120 and isshown decision to eliminate the use of Share Options during the last shareholder consultation cycle.
as part of the construct applicable to our The following actions will apply to our This approach significantly simplifies our USexecutive director, the Committee will framework for 2018 and all are entirely in LTIarrangements without changing the alsocease the award of Share Options to accordance with the bounds of the approved underlying market-competitive expected theUKexecutive directors for 2018 onwards.
In line with our commitment to values of 185% for the Chief Executive continued transparency and engagement Consistent with the flexibility contained and167.5% for the GroupFinance Director.
withour shareholders, we have engaged withinthe Policy, LTI awards will be withour major shareholders on these deliveredusing Performance Shares only.
Thischange will result in a lower total face value of the award without, we believe, In order to increase focus on the diluting the incentive to achieve long-term achievementof non-financial objectives sustainable value.
designed to support the Groups strategy, theweighting on non-financial performance measures will increase from 20% to 25%, Long-Term Incentive award levels with 75% remaining on financial metrics Current aggregate New face value relating to Group EPS, Group cash and face value of awards associated with Grouporder intake.
Current Performance Shares Performance Share total expected and Share Options award only % of salary % of salary % of salary Chief Executive 185 550 370 Group Finance Director 167.5 515 335 Application of 2018 package  Application of 2018 package  Performance Performance Shares Shares Vests subject to three-year TSR and EPS conditions: vested shares released in one-thirds in years3, 4 and 5 Vests subject to three-year TSR and EPS conditions, and Restricted two-year holding Shares period, inyear 5 Vests subject to three-year service condition with an additional two-year clawback period One-third One-third Compulsory Compulsory compulsorily compulsorily bonus deferral bonus deferral deferred inshares deferred inshares for three years for three years Annual Annual Incentive Incentive Two-thirds paid in Two-thirds paid in cash immediately cash immediately Base Base Salary Salary 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Year Year Charts are illustrative and are not to scale.
Details of executive director remuneration packages are on page 96.
The full Policy approved at the 2017 AGM is set out on pages 117to129.
BAE Systems 94 Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Committee report continued Concluding comments Wider employee agenda On behalf of my colleagues on the Committee, Recognising the public interest in pay and indeed the entire Board, we appreciate differentials, and the expected proposed the input we have received from shareholders legislation in this area, we are continuing and representatives of institutional investors.
tovoluntarily disclose the pay ratio of our TheCommittee remains committed to our ChiefExecutive to that of the average policy of paying for performance.
The employee of the Group.
changesfor 2018 simplify the LTI construct The level of salary adjustment for the considerably whilst ensuring that the executivedirectors is in line with the  for executives remain averageincrease for employees generally meaningful and are aligned to the Companys across the Group in 2018. strategic goals and the interests of our shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee To support the Committee in taking a isactively engaged in monitoring performance  for demonstrating and continuing to ensure that the level of howpayand incentives are aligned across challenge within our annual and long-term theCompany, the Committee undertook incentive plans remains appropriate.
areward framework deep-dive session covering information on the structure of remuneration across the Group, including On behalf of the Board pension benefits.
Paula Rosput Reynolds In February 2018, BAE Systems published Chairman of the  itsgender pay report in accordance with UKlegislation.
Our average gender pay gap is11.2%.
This is lower than the UK national average of 18.1%.
We have a gender paygap because we employ around four timesmore men than women in the UK and agreater proportion of our senior leadership team ismale.
We are determined to bridge the gendergap in our industry by encouraging more women to join BAE Systems and we have putin place a number of programmes and initiatives to support the development andprogression of women into senior executive positions.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 95 The Remuneration Committees year January May November Committee Committee Committee London, UK Farnborough, Hampshire, UK New Milton, Hampshire, UK Agreed 2017 objectives for executive Considered institutional investor Reviewed level of executive directors directors and Executive Committee shareholderupdates.
shareholdings relative to the Minimum Approved remuneration package for new Shareholding Requirement.
Reviewed feedback from shareholder orexisting Executive Committee members.
consultation on 2017 Directors Reviewed dilution levels and share usage remuneration policy renewal.
September Reviewed Remuneration Committee Approved operation of Group All-Employee Committee termsof reference.
Farnborough, Hampshire, UK Considered high level remuneration market practice findings.
Agreed basis for 2017 annual remuneration February review including elimination of share options Approved remuneration package for new Committee for UK executive directors.
London, UK Received update on progress against Reviewed outline of 2017 Annual Determined 2016 bonuses against AnnualIncentive Plan objectives for remuneration report.
performance for executive directors executive directors and Executive andExecutive Committee members Committeemembers.
Received update on performance conditions Approved 2016 Group All-Employee for Long-Term Incentive awards.
Approved remuneration package for new London, UK Determined vesting outcome for orexisting executive director or Executive Reviewed and set salaries and bonus 2014Long-Term Incentive awards.
opportunity levels for executive directors Approved 2017 Long-Term Incentive Received details of recent pay review and Executive Committee members.
awardsand associated performance exercise for key senior executives.
Proposed and set 2018 Annual Incentive targetsfor executive directors and targets.
Approved modifying the mix of Long-Term Incentives forUSexecutive director.
Reviewed feedback from shareholder consultation on 2017 remuneration reviewand policy renewal.
Remuneration Committee timeline January February May September November December Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
