Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy table executive directors A summary of the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM is set out below.
For the full remuneration policy, please refer to the 2016 Directors' remuneration report at bp.
Salary and benefits Purpose To provide fixed remuneration to reflect the scale and complexity of both the business and the role, and to be competitive with the external market.
Salary Benefits Operation and Salary levels take into account the nature of the role, The committee expects to maintain benefits at the opportunity performance of the business and the individual, current level.
market positioning and pay conditions in the wider Executive directors are entitled to receive those BP group.
When setting salaries, the committee benefits available to all BP employees generally, such considers practice in other oil and gas majors as well as participation in all-employee share plans, sickness as European and US companies of a similar size, pay, relocation assistance and maternity pay.
geographic spread and business dynamic to BP.
Salaries are normally set in the home currency of the Executive directors may receive other benefits that are executive director and are reviewed annually.
They judged to be cost effective and appropriate in terms of may be reviewed at other times where appropriate, the individuals role, time and or security.
These include for example following a major role change.
car-related benefits or cash in lieu, driver, security, Salary levels are specific to the role and individual and assistance with tax return preparation, insurance and therefore there is no maximum salary under the policy.
The company may meet any tax However, when reviewing salaries for executive charges arising on business-related benefits provided directors, the committee will consider salary increases to directors, for example security.
for the most senior management and for employees in The taxable value of benefits provided may fluctuate relevant countries.
Percentage increases for executive during the period of this policy, depending on the cost directors will not exceed that of the broader employee of provision and a directors personal circumstances.
population, other than in specific circumstances identified by the committee e. g. in response to a substantial change in responsibilities.
Following the 2018 AGM, the annual salaries for the executive directors will be: Group chief executive Bob Dudley: $1,854,000.
Chief financial officer Brian Gilvary: 775,000.
Performance Not applicable framework Annual bonus Purpose To provide variable remuneration dependent on performance against annual financial, operational and safety measures.
50% of the bonus is paid in cash and 50% is mandatorily deferred and held in BP shares for three years to reinforce the long-term nature of the business and the importance of sustainability.
The bonus is based on performance against annual 50% of the bonus earned is required to be deferred Operation and measures and targets set at the start of the year, into BP shares for three years.
Dividends or opportunity evaluated over the financial year and assessed equivalents, including the value of any reinvestment following the year end.
may accrue in respect of any deferred shares.
Typically the annual bonus earned would be 50% of Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions the maximum available for delivery of performance as described in policy, see bp.
in line with the annual plan.
The level of bonus payable may vary depending on the nature of the performance measure and level of target set.
Executive directors may earn a maximum annual bonus including any deferral of up to 225% of salary for stretching performance against the objectives set for the year.
The committee intends to set demanding requirements for maximum payment.
Performance The committee determines specific measures, Measures will typically include a balance of financial, framework weightings and targets each year to reflect the operational and safety measures.
Details of the priorities in the annual plan, which is designed measures will be reported in advance each year in the to deliver the groups strategy and is approved annual report on remuneration.
The committee intends by the board.
to disclose targets for the annual bonus retrospectively.
110 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Performance shares Purpose To link the largest part of remuneration opportunity with the long-term performance of the business.
The outcome varies with performance against measures linked directly to strategic priorities.
Operation and Annual awards of shares will vest based on not be expected to exceed 25% of the maximum opportunity performance relative to measures and targets that opportunity for the relevant element.
reflect the delivery of BPs strategy.
Performance Once performance has been measured, a proportion will normally be measured over a period of at least of the shares that will vest are subject to a holding three years.
The combined length of the performance and The maximum annual award level for the group chief holding periods will be normally six years.
executive will be 500% of salary and 450% of salary Dividends or equivalents, including the value of for the chief financial officer.
reinvestment may accrue in respect of vested shares.
Performance shares will only vest to the extent that Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, performance targets are met.
The level of vesting See bp.
for performance will depend on the stretch of the objective set, but the threshold level would normally Performance Performance shares may vest based on a Prior to granting each award the committee will review framework combination of total shareholder return, financial the measures, weightings and targets to ensure they and strategic measures.
remain focused on delivering the strategy and are in the interests of shareholders.
For 2018 awards, the measures and weightings will be: At least 40% of any award will be subject to measures total shareholder return relative to oil and gas linked to shareholder returns and the proportion linked majors 50% to strategic progress will not exceed 30%.
The return on average capital employed 30% committee would consult appropriately with major strategic progress 20% shareholders regarding any material changes to the Details of 2018 targets relating to the total shareholder measures.
return and return on average capital employed measures are outlined in the remuneration report.
Details relating to strategic progress will be disclosed retrospectively.
Shareholding requirements Purpose To provide alignment between the interests of executive directors and our other shareholders.
Operation and An executive director is expected to build up and opportunity maintain a minimum shareholding of five times their base salary within five years of their appointment.
framework Retirement benefits Purpose To recognize competitive practice in home country.
Operation and Executive directors normally participate in the company The level of this allowance is expected to reduce in opportunity retirement plans that operate in their home country.
future, in line with the proposed reduction for other UK employees who participate in this arrangement.
Senior executives in BP have generally been employees of the group for a number of years.
They often remain US executive directors participate in long-standing plans participants in long-standing arrangements in which of Amoco and Arco and other BP defined benefit and other group employees continue to participate, but retirement savings plans for US employees.
which are no longer offered to new employees.
The For future appointments, the committee will carefully maximum opportunity will vary depending on the terms review any retirement benefits to be granted to a new of these arrangements.
This will take account of retirement policies UK participants may remain members of the companys across the wider group, any arrangements currently defined benefit plan.
In common with other employees in place, local market practice and individual in this plan, they may choose to receive up to 35% of circumstances.
The committee will consider salary in lieu as a cash supplement but do not receive retirement benefits in the context of the overall further service accrual under this plan.
Performance Retirement benefits in the UK are not directly linked to legacy arrangements in the US may reference framework performance.
Reflecting local market practice, bonuses when determining the benefit level.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 111 Directors remuneration report Remuneration policy table non-executive directors Non-executive chairman Fees Approach Remuneration is in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
The level and structure of the chairmans remuneration will primarily be compared against UK best practice.
Operation and The quantum and structure of the non-executive chairmans remuneration is reviewed annually by the remuneration opportunity committee, which makes a recommendation to the board.
Benefits and expenses Approach The chairman is provided with support and reasonable travelling expenses.
The chairman is provided with an office and full time secretarial and administrative support in London and a Operation and contribution to an office and secretarial support in his home country as appropriate.
A car and the use of a driver is opportunity provided in London, together with security assistance.
All reasonable travelling and other expenses including any relevant tax incurred in carrying out his duties is reimbursed.
Non-executive directors Fees Approach Remuneration is in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
Remuneration practice is consistent with recognized best practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration and, as a UK-listed company, the level and structure of non-executive directors remuneration will primarily be compared against UK best practice.
Additional fees may be payable to reflect additional board responsibilities, for example, committee chairmanship and membership and for the role of senior independent director.
Operation and The level and structure of non-executive directors remuneration is reviewed by the chairman, the GCE and the opportunity company secretary who make a recommendation to the board.
Non-executive directors do not vote on their own remuneration.
Remuneration for non-executive directors is reviewed annually.
Other fees and benefits Intercontinental allowance Approach Non-executive directors receive an allowance to reflect the global nature of the companys business.
The intercontinental travel allowance is payable for the purpose of attending board or committee meetings or site visits.
Operation and The allowance is paid in cash following each event of intercontinental travel.
opportunity Benefits and expenses Approach Non-executive directors are provided with administrative support and reasonable travelling expenses.
Professional fees are reimbursed in the form of cash, payable following the provision of advice and assistance.
Operation and Non-executive directors are reimbursed for all reasonable travelling and subsistence expenses including any relevant opportunity tax incurred in carrying out their duties.
The reimbursement of professional fees incurred by non-executive directors based outside the UK in connection with advice and assistance on UK tax compliance matters.
The maximum fees for non-executive directors are set in accordance with the Articles of Association.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary on 29 March 2018.
112 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
