76 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 2017 SNAPSHOT 77 Annual Statement from Committee Chairman SINGLE FIGURE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 79 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy provided in full for information: Chief Executive Officer as approved in May 2017 2017 1,875k 81 Payments from existing variable 400 pay awards 2016 2,346k 81 Performance measurement selection 300 81 Remuneration policy for other employees Chief Financial Officer 81 Shareholding guidelines 200 2017 1,532k 81 Pay scenario charts for the CEO and CFO 2016 1,807k 100 82 Approach to recruitment remuneration 82 Executive Director service contracts 0 Dec 08 Dec 17 and exit payment policy BONUS OUTCOME % OF SALARY 84 Non-Executive Directors 82% CEO 85 External appointments CFO 88% 85 Consideration of conditions elsewhere Inmarsat FTSE 350 xIT in the Company 85 Consideration of shareholder views 85 Annual Report on Remuneration 85 Remuneration Committee SALARY SHARE PLANS membership in 2017 2% increase for CEO and CFO, 2017 BSA: 81% of allocated shares granted: 86 Advisors effective from 1 July 2017 target payout reduced for 2017 award 86 Summary of shareholder voting UK average of 2.7% increase 2015 PSP: 30% vesting at the 2017 AGM 87 Single figure of total remuneration ANNUAL BONUS SHAREHOLDER RETURNS for Executive Directors audited 2017 final year dividend: 12.00 cents US$ Measures and outcome 87 Incentive outcomes for the year Revenue exceeded target but below stretch ended 31 December 2017 audited EBITDA exceeded target but below stretch 90 Additional disclosure of 2016 Personal objectives 73% for the CEO and performance targets audited 90% for the CFO 91 Scheme interests awarded in 2017 audited 92 Pension audited 2018 SNAPSHOT 93 Single figure of total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited 93 Exit payments made in the year audited SHARE PLANS 93 Payments to past Directors audited Change to BSA operation: 93 External appointments for performance against each measure assessed on an independent basis Executive Directors payout for target performance reduced to 80% of maximum: introduction of stretch target, 93 Implementation of Remuneration the achievement of which will result in 100% payout Policy for 2018 No changes in PSA and BSA award opportunities vs. 2017: 95 Non-Executive Director fees award of salary: 185% for CEO and 175% for CFO final vesting may be lower but 95 Total shareholder return not higher than these percentages of salary 96 CEO nine-year remuneration history audited two-year hold on PSA awards which was introduced with effect from the 2017 award 96 Percentage change in CEO remuneration These changes were implemented in the 2017 award as well.
96 Relative importance of spend on pay 97 Directors shareholding audited ANNUAL BONUS PLAN 97 Directors interests in shares in Annual bonus potential remains maximum of salary of 125% for CEO and CFO Inmarsat long-term incentive plans and all-employee plans audited 97 Inmarsat Bonus Share Awards audited 98 Inmarsat Performance Share Awards audited 98 Inmarsat Sharesave Scheme 2017 Award audited 2017 Directors Annual Report 79 85 Remuneration Policy on Remuneration Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 77 Annual statement SIMON BAX Annual statement from CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION the Remuneration COMMITTEE Committee Chairman, Simon Bax future financial performance and shareholder will now be assessed on an independent basis, DEAR SHAREHOLDER value creation.
The TSR and financial metrics ie there will no longer be an opportunity On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present were not met and therefore there was no vesting to offset any underperformance against the Directors Remuneration Report for the for that portion of the PSA.
one measure with outperformance against year ended 31 December 2017. the other.
Secondly, payout for target The Committee took careful account of the performance will be reduced from 100% to During 2017, the Company has made steady external environment when reviewing Executive 80% of maximum, and a stretch target will progress against plan in terms of both financial Director salaries for the year: a 2% increase was be introduced, the achievement of which performance and achievement of strategic applied, in line with RPI and below the average will be required for full payout.
The Committee, objectives, which has positioned us well for increase across the Company.
The 2017 single Company Chairman and the Executive Directors the future.
However, at the same time, we have figures for total remuneration are down 20% wanted to acknowledge the strong views experienced a significant decline in our share for the CEO and 15% for the CFO compared of some shareholders on this matter quickly price, driven in part by the markets view of with last year, reflecting the changes made to and decisively.
We therefore took the decision the satellite sector.
The Committee has taken the BSA arrangements retrospectively for 2017, to apply these changes on a retrospective a holistic view of performance and made and the fall in the Companys share price.
basis to awards made to Executive Directors its decision to ensure that pay outcomes for in 2017, as well as to future awards.
Executive Directors this year have appropriately CHANGES TO BSA taken into account the progress made against The Committee engaged with major our financial and strategic objectives as well As a reminder, we undertook a remuneration shareholders and proxy advisors on these as the decline in share price.
review in 2016, and at the 2017 AGM put forward changes prior to the 2018 AGM, and received a revised Remuneration Policy for shareholder strong support.
During consultation, we also The annual bonus and the Bonus Share Award approval.
The new Policy was approved with received comments from some shareholders plan BSA financial targets were partially over 90% votes in favour, but the advisory vote around the current mix of performance achieved despite the impact of the costs of for the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration measures in our incentive plans and these the workforce reduction exercise during 2017. received just over 51% support.
As a Board, have already been reported back to the We chose to retain these costs as part of this we take seriously the views of our shareholders, Remuneration Committee.
We intend years operating costs.
This has the impact and in light of the voting outcome, the Committee to review this area more fully during 2018, of lowering the outcome of both the BSA commenced a fresh review of the Companys and will consult again ahead of making and annual cash bonus.
approach to remuneration and spent considerable any significant changes.
We thank our time engaging with shareholders during 2017 There is also partial vesting under the 2015 shareholders for your valued input into and early in 2018.
The review focused on the BSA, Performance Share Award plan PSA for the engagement process and continued which was the main area of shareholder concern.
the delivery of the strategic objectives portion support for the Company, and remain of that award reflecting some good progress committed to ongoing dialogue.
We reflected on the shareholders comments against predetermined long-term strategic we had received, and are making two key goals.
These goals support the Companys changes to the implementation of the BSA.
Firstly, performance against each measure 78 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION DECISIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SUMMARY IN 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY I would like to thank shareholders for their IN 2018 Based on 2017 performance, the CEO and input during the year, and my fellow members the CFO will receive annual cash bonuses For 2018, the maximum annual bonus of the Remuneration Committee and all the of 82% and 88% of salary, respectively.
The opportunity will remain 125% of salary.
The Non-Executive Directors for their valuable bonuses reflect both the financial performance financial element of the bonus representing contribution to the remuneration agenda for of the Company and the individual contributions 70% of maximum will continue to be measured 2017 and discussions held in 2018.
I hope we made by each of the Executive Directors by reference to EBITDA and revenue.
The element can count on shareholders support at the over the last year.
Based on performance and on personal performance and contribution 2018 AGM, where I will be available to respond taking into account the changes set out above, will continue to be weighted 30% of maximum.
to any questions shareholders may have on 81% of the 2017 BSA will be awarded in March this report or in relation to the Committees BSA opportunities for 2018 will remain 185% 2018 and will vest in equal tranches in March activities.
As always, I am available to meet and 175% of salary for the CEO and the CFO, 2019, 2020 and 2021, subject to continued and discuss our remuneration arrangements respectively.
Payout will continue to be linked employment.
Summaries of performance with shareholders.
to the achievement of EBITDA 67% of total against bonus and BSA targets are included award and revenue 33% targets.
The two on pages 87 and 88. measures will be considered independently, SIMON BAX Based on performance to 31 December 2017, and payout for target performance will CHAIRMAN, 30% of the share award made under the 2015 be reduced to 80% of maximum, with 60% REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PSA will vest in March 2018, driven by strong payout delivered for threshold performance progress against long-term strategic targets.
and full payout for stretch performance.
9 March 2018 We introduced strategic objectives in the No changes are proposed to award levels PSA in 2015 as we believed it was important or performance measurement for the PSA for management to be focused on delivering for 2018.
The CEO and the CFO will receive critical strategic programmes, which would awards of 185% and 175% of salary, respectively.
in turn drive long-term shareholder value Vesting will continue to be based on relative creation.
The Committee considered strategic TSR against the constituents of the performance over the three-year period, FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts including quantitative and qualitative 30% of total award, EBITDA 30% and outcomes: detailed information is set out the delivery of specific strategic objectives on page 89. considered key drivers to our future success After taking into account overall performance 40%.
A two-year holding period, which against the individual strategic objectives, was introduced to awards starting in 2017, as well as taking a holistic view of the Companys will apply to vested PSA shares, during performance over the period, 30% out of 40% which time shares may not be sold except will vest for strategic performance.
for the relative TSR 30% of total award and Further detail on the implementation of our EBITDA 30% of total award elements were Policy for 2018 is included on pages 93 to 95. not met and as such there will be no vesting for either element.
WE REFLECTED ON SHAREHOLDERS COMMENTS AND ARE MAKING TWO KEY CHANGES TO THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BONUS SHARE AWARD Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 79 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and took effect from the date of the AGM.
This section presents the full Policy, for ease of reference.
The sections presented are as disclosed in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, save the following changes: Payout profile for the BSA has been updated to reflect the reduced payout at target and the addition of a stretch level of performance References to financial years have been updated where appropriate Pay scenario charts have been updated to reflect the latest salaries and Details of current Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Groups Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest appropriate quality, linking rewards to the achievement of financial and strategic goals of the Group.
When determining Remuneration Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem necessary, including the Groups overall business strategy, business performance in the current year and expectations for future years as incorporated into our Long Range Business Plan LRBP, pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation.
Where appropriate, we will consult with shareholders in advance of major changes in the Remuneration Policy or where we consider there are material changes to individual remuneration arrangements.
The Committee is committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise them to achieve the Companys objectives which will create value for shareholders.
How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance BASIC SALARY Paying market-competitive Salaries are reviewed annually with any increase Salary increases will be applied in line with Based on Company performance base salaries, commensurate generally made in July or following a material change the outcome of an annual salary review.
with the individuals role, in responsibilities.
The Committee will determine The maximum annual salary increase responsibilities and experience, any increases to be made.
will normally be in line with the average allows us to recruit and retain Any increase is determined by a formal appraisal increase applied to the UK workforce.
Executive Directors of the by the Committee, taking into account market pay However, larger increases may be calibre required to implement levels, a review of salaries against companies of awarded in certain circumstances our strategy.
similar size, complexity and type, Group performance, including, but not limited to, an increase as well as the remuneration arrangements operated in scope or responsibility of the role: throughout the Group, with reference to UK-based to apply salary progression for a employees in particular for pay comparison levels.
newly appointed Director: where the Directors salary has fallen behind market positioning.
Where increases are awarded in excess of that for the UK employee population, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
BENEFITS IN KIND We provide cost-effective Provision of death, long-term sickness and medical The benefits provided may vary Not applicable.
benefits which support the and dental insurance cover which can include by role and levels of cover provided wellbeing of employees.
Life assurance will reflect market practice and of four times salary, paid holiday and medical the individual circumstances of the check-ups are also provided.
If required, the Company would provide access It is not anticipated that the current to independent financial and legal advice on a cost of benefits as set out in the case-by-case basis.
Annual Report on Remuneration would increase materially over the Provision of other reasonable benefits in the period for which this Policy will apply.
event of relocation, eg temporary accommodation and other related costs will be considered on a The Committee retains the case-by-case basis.
discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances These benefits are non-pensionable.
eg relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially.
PENSION We provide defined The Executive Directors are eligible to participate Maximum employer contributions are Not applicable.
currently 12.5% of the capped salary contribution pension in the Companys defined contribution pension plan arrangements, or arrangements or other similar pension plans as under the terms of the UK pension plan.
appropriate to the Executive Directors nationality The Committee may review pension or location.
The Company also operates an autocontribution levels in the future.
enrolment pension scheme which an Executive Director Any increase in contributions would could participate in instead of the main pension plan.
not result in a pension contribution Contributions are based on a percentage of salary in excess of 20% of the uncapped which is currently limited to a pensions cap.
80 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance ANNUAL CASH BONUS We provide an annual Bonus payment levels are determined by the Maximum opportunity: Bonus is based on achievement bonus to incentivise the Committee annually by reference to performance of annual financial and personal 125% of salary achievement of annual against targets set at the start of the financial year.
Threshold and Target opportunity: financial and operational Personal objectives are set annually by the Committee.
The personal element will not goals in line with Group 0% and 75% of salary respectively In exceptional circumstances, the Committee be weighted more than 30% strategy.
has the ability to exercise discretion to override the of the total in any year.
Performance metrics are formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the Details of the measures and scheme where it believes the outcome is not truly selected to support the weightings applicable for the annual business strategy reflective of performance, and to reflect the actual financial year under review are delivery of value to shareholders.
Any discretionary which we believe also provided in the Annual Report lead to enhancement adjustments will be detailed in the following years on Remuneration.
The Committee may change The Committee may exercise its discretion to claw the measures used if other back bonuses in certain exceptional circumstances measures are deemed more which may include but are not limited to gross suitable to allow delivery of misconduct, fraud or a significant downward the Companys strategy.
revision of the financial results of the Group.
BONUS SHARE AWARD BSA We provide the opportunity We make annual allocations of conditional shares Maximum opportunity for all Executive The Committee sets annual to participate in the BSA which are confirmed the following year, subject to Directors is up to 200% of salary performance measures as it links the delivery of achievement of agreed annual performance targets.
300% in exceptional circumstances, currently based on the same short-term financial and The resulting shares vest over the subsequent three as permitted in the Executive Share financial objectives as for operational performance years, subject to continued employment.
the annual cash bonus plan to sustained shareholder and may change these Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over Threshold and Target performance value creation.
for future awards as it the vesting period are awarded only on the number result in 60% and 80% conversion considers appropriate.
Participation in the BSA of shares that vest.
of the monetary award into shares, reinforces continued respectively.
Unvested awards and vested awards that have delivery of the LRBP as not yet been transferred to the Executive Director vesting of shares occurs are subject to adjustment for malus and clawback, over three years after ie forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
performance has Such circumstances may include but are not limited been tested.
to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the previously reported financial results of the Group.
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD PSA We believe the PSA aligns We make annual awards of conditional shares, Maximum opportunity for all The performance measures executives interests with which vest after a minimum of three years subject Executive Directors is up to 200% and respective weightings may vary year-on-year to reflect long-term shareholder to performance over a three-year period.
of salary 300% in exceptional value creation through circumstances, as permitted in strategic priorities, and will A mandatory two-year holding period applies include a financial measure.
rewarding the delivery the Executive Share Plan Rules.
to vested awards commencing with the award to of a mix of financial and Strategic measures, if included, be made in 2017.
Threshold performance will result will not be weighted more than strategic measures.
in the vesting of 30% 0% 0% Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over 40% of the total award in The performance measures of the maximum award under the the vesting period are awarded only on the number any year.
in the PSA reflect the value TSR EBITDA strategic performance of shares that vest.
elements which are the current Details of the measures and Unvested awards are subject to adjustment for malus performance measures being used.
weightings applicable for the and clawback, ie forfeiture or reduction in exceptional financial year under review are circumstances.
Such circumstances may include provided in the Annual Report but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or on Remuneration.
Changes to a significant downward revision of the previously weightings and performance reported financial results of the Group.
targets will be retrospectively explained to shareholders.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS To encourage share We operate employee share savings plans Participation levels set by HMRC or Not applicable.
ownership across all for our global workforce where, depending relevant local laws from time to time.
employees as allowed on location, savings periods of between by HMRC and relevant two and three years operate.
We will look at opportunities to offer other employee share plans in the future.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 81 All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans which are PAYMENTS FROM EXISTING VARIABLE PAY AWARDS generally the UK Sharesave Scheme, Employee Share Participation Plan Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made for U. S. and Canadian employees or an equivalent international plan.
prior to the approval of the 2017 Remuneration Policy, eg awards made Participation is on generally the same terms subject to local regulations.
Any commitment made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force at the time the commitment was made will be SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES honoured, even when it is not consistent with the Policy prevailing at the time The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold Company shares such commitment is fulfilled.
Details of any such outstanding share awards equivalent to five times base salary.
For the purpose of this guideline, to Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
shares owned includes beneficially owned shares and shares that are unvested and subject to continued employment only, under the PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT SELECTION BSA and PSA plans.
Our incentive plans excluding restricted share awards and all-employee For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to build share plans all include financial performance requirements.
Performance up a shareholding to the five times guideline over a period of time, targets are set to be stretching, taking into account the Companys generally within five to seven years.
strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are set taking into account a range of reference points PAY SCENARIO CHARTS FOR THE CEO AND CFO including the Groups LRBP, the market in which the Company operates, the expected performance of competitors in these same markets, broker The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward forecasts and latest internal forecasts.
Achievement of these targets opportunities for the two current Executive Directors CEO and CFO, delivers to shareholders the value inherent in the LRBP.
and the potential split between the different elements of pay under three The annual cash bonus plan and BSA reflect the financial targets which the different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target, and Maximum.
Board believes are key to driving the business.
Revenue and EBITDA reflect Potential reward opportunities are based on Inmarsats current incentive the underlying financial success of the business and support the annual opportunities, applied to salaries as at 1 January 2018.
Note that the business strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsats shareholders.
projected values exclude the impact of any share price movement.
The PSA currently has three performance requirements, which are Each element of remuneration reflects the following assumptions: EBITDA growth, the Companys total shareholder return performance Minimum: includes fixed remuneration only, ie base salary, against the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, and delivery of taxable benefits and pension strategic objectives.
All three performance metrics are linked to our long-term business strategy, and support shareholder value creation.
Target: includes fixed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target performance under the annual cash bonus plan 60% of maximum The Committee retains the ability to adjust and or set different of 125% of salary and the BSA 80% of maximum opportunities performance measures following a corporate event such as a change of 185% and 175% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively and in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business threshold performance under the PSA 30% 0% 0% of maximum or a significant change in prevailing market conditions either specific under the TSR EBITDA strategic performance elements, based to the Companys sector or macro-economic events which causes the on maximum opportunities of 185% and 175% of salary for the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and CEO and CFO respectively that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
Maximum: includes fixed remuneration and maximum payment REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES under all incentive plans Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined PAY SCENARIOS 000 on the same principles as for remunerating Executive Directors, in that reward should support our business strategy.
It should be sufficient to Chief Executive Officer attract and retain high-performing individuals.
17% 21% 62% 3,522 Maximum As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements On-target 30% 22% 48% 2,019 that are appropriate to apply but, overall, this principle applies across the 100% Minimum 608 different geographies in which we operate.
Employees receive variable pay which gives them incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Share plans BSA and PSA and is reflective of how we deal with Executive Directors too.
Chief Financial Officer In general, the remuneration policy and principles which apply to other Maximum 18% 22% 60% 2,793 senior executives is consistent with that set out in this report for Executive 31% 22% 46% On-target 1,615 Directors.
All employees participate in bonus schemes.
Group senior Minimum 100% 503 executives are eligible to participate in the BSA and some also participate in the PSA.
The BSA may from time to time operate with division-specific Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Share plans BSA and PSA targets for some participants and the PSA may have slightly different performance measures in place than those used for the Executive Directors, as appropriate.
82 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS In the event we hire a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to current remuneration, the type of remuneration arrangements for other Inmarsat executives, external market data and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from and may be based in to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Policy in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the Committee as appropriate to offer.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted for example, cash or shares, the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
The Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as Bonus Share Awards, Performance Share Awards or Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
The Committee may also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules Chapter 9.4.
2 regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Component Approach Maximum annual value Basic salary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pension and benefits To be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current Policy, and as well as any expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Directors relocation on appointment.
Sharesave Scheme To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees.
Annual cash bonus The scheme as described in the Policy table will apply to new appointees.
125% of salary The Committee will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the executive on joining the Company will receive the full annual payment or a pro-rata amount.
Bonus Share Awards To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, Up to 200% of salary as described in the Policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances The Committee will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the executive on joining the Company will receive the full annual allocation or a pro-rata amount.
Performance Share Awards To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, Up to 200% of salary as described in the Policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances The Committee will determine on a case-by-case basis whether the executive on joining the Company will receive the full annual award or a pro-rata amount.
Restricted Share Awards To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule agreed by the Up to 200% of salary Committee, subject to continued employment only.
Awards will typically be made to 300% in exceptional circumstances facilitate the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting schedule will typically match that of the awards forfeited.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
INTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of remuneration and benefits.
Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period of several years, subject to the executives development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Director Date of service contract Term of office Notice period Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company or Director Tony Bates 21 February 2014 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company and six months written notice by the Director The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing Director.
All Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to be made.
For the Executive Directors, the Company may make such payments monthly up to 12 months and these payments shall be reduced if the executive finds alternative employment.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 83 Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years base salary plus other benefits, which may include annual bonus subject to performance conditions being fulfilled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date, unless the Committee believes this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves.
The rationale for any discretion if exercised will be provided in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Annual bonus Good leaver Normal payment date.
Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of the year in the normal see below for definition way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year.
All other reasons Awards lapse.
BSA Good leaver Normal vesting date, although the Any allocated but not yet granted shares will be granted at the Committees discretion.
see below for definition Committee has discretion to accelerate.
The treatment of unvested shares is at the Committees discretion.
PSA During the vesting period: Good leaver Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and subject to performance see below for definition Committee has discretion to accelerate.
During the post-vesting holding period: All leavers Not applicable.
Not applicable awards, once vested including those in any holding period, are treated as owned by the individual and are subject to clawback provisions.
RSA Good leaver Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time.
Employee Share Plans Good leaver Share options can be exercised for a The individual will be entitled to exercise his share options in accordance see below for definition certain period of time after departure.
with HMRC approved rules or local equivalent rules.
A good leaver is the departure of an Executive Director for reasons of ill health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
Termination for cause is regarded as a bad leaver and no awards shall vest.
Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards may be transferred to participants in accordance with the Executive Share Plan Rules, based on the extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met.
For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time and paid immediately.
The final treatment for the annual bonus remains subject to the Committees discretion.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of the Executive Director where it is in the service agreement to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Executive Directors termination package, including without limitation compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for him executing a settlement agreement, payment of the departing Executive Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy arrangement or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
84 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director NED, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of them and set out details of their fees base fee and Committee membership fee.
Fees will be the same level as for other NEDs, except where the Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum NED fees To attract and retain The NEDs are paid a basic fee.
To avoid setting expectations, high-calibre NEDs there is no maximum fee level.
The Committee Chairmen and other members of the Board Committees by offering a market Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Telecoms Regulatory Committees The maximum annual aggregate competitive fee level and the Senior Independent Director are paid supplements to reflect their fee for all Group NEDs is 1,000,000, additional responsibilities.
as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Chairman of the Board will be paid a single fee for all his responsibilities, and receive healthcare cover.
NED fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed by the Committee taking into account fee levels at the same set of companies, and is then approved by the Board.
If any changes are to be made, they are usually effective in July.
Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, NEDs may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
The UK Corporate Governance Code has special provisions regarding determination of the independence of Directors when they have served for more than nine years.
Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and their appointment will normally terminate on: A Director choosing to resign voluntarily A Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness If the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of the appointment A Director is found guilty of misconduct or A Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at an AGM Dates of NED appointment letters are as follows: Name Date of appointment letter Date of appointment Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013 Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 1 Warren Finegold 13 March 2017 1 August 2017 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 Phillipa McCrostie 18 May 2016 1 September 2016 Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009 Dr Abe Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013 Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015 Andrew Sukawaty 16 September 2014 1 January 2015 Dr Hamadoun Tour 16 December 2014 1 March 2015 1 Mr Finegold was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 August 2017 Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive plans.
They receive no benefits, except that healthcare cover is provided for the Chairman, as a continuation of the cover provided to him previously.
The Company reimburses the reasonable expenses the Non-Executive Directors incur in carrying out their duties as Directors.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 85 EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Annual report on remuneration Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the Board The following section provides details of how Inmarsats 2017 of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external ended 31 December 2017 and how the Committee intends to Board appointments.
Directors accepting such positions shall take into implement the Policy in 2018. account any guidelines for external directorships as contained in the UK The Regulations require our external auditors to report to shareholders Corporate Governance Code, subject at all times to pre-authorisation on the audited information within this report and to state whether, of the appointment by the Chairman.
NEDs taking additional board in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance positions are asked to speak to the Chairman in advance to ensure with the Act.
The external auditors opinion is set out on pages 105 to 111 no conflict of interest and for the Chairman to speak to the Senior and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the report.
Independent Director SID for anything affecting him.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2017 CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
We had five scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive with additional calls and discussions as required.
Committee membership Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into consideration the and attendance at scheduled meetings are set out in the table below: remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
This relates Committee members Attendance to our philosophy around levels of base salary, operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement and provision of benefits also Simon Bax Committee Chairman 5 5 being available across the Group.
With the upcoming proposal from 1 Stephen Davidson 1 1 the UK Financial Reporting Council for greater employee engagement Sir Bryan Carsberg 5 5 expected to be implemented during 2018, the Company is already 2 Warren Finegold 2 2 considering how it will respond to this to ensure a productive and 1 Kathleen Flaherty 2 2 supportive environment for such dialogue to occur and will report General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 5 5 on it in the 2018 Annual Report.
1 Mr Davidson and Mrs Flaherty retired as Non-Executive Directors on 19 January The Group already consults with its employees on general employment and 2 March 2017, respectively policies in a range of ways, including formal consultation forums in 2 Mr Finegold was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2017 some countries where it operates.
Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line managers or to the HR team or to During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which a confidential email address which will receive queries on all issues ensured that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year.
Its key activities included: Review and approval of the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS and preparation of the 2017 Report When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder Approval of the statement to be included on the Company website views and the guidelines of investor bodies.
The Remuneration Committee regarding the vote on the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration Chairman, Company Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary engage proactively with major shareholders and Preparation for the 2017 AGM shareholder representatives whenever appropriate.
The Committee is Review of key shareholder themes, feedback and voting always open to feedback from shareholders on its Remuneration Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to consulting shareholders Shareholder consultation on proposed changes to the Bonus Share Award in advance of major changes.
Details of votes cast for and against the Comprehensive discussion and review of the Bonus Share Award, and resolution to approve last years Annual Report on Remuneration are consideration of changes to the plan in response to shareholder feedback provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Report.
which led to changes being made to the 2017 and future awards Review of Executive Director total remuneration against a summary of recent trends in executive remuneration Review and approval of incentive outcomes for the prior year Approval of opportunities award levels and performance targets for the 2017 annual cash bonus, BSA and PSA awards Review of incentive plans across the Group Review of the ISS pay for performance comparator group and analysis and Review of the Companys Gender Pay report 86 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ADVISORS During 2017, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew Sukawaty Chairman, Rupert Pearce CEO, Tony Bates CFO, Alison Horrocks Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary, Natasha Dillon Chief People Officer and Matt Smith Head of Reward.
Dr Abe Peled, the Senior Independent Director, also attended meetings.
No member of management is present at a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
Mercer Kepler was appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a tendering process, and has continued to act as the Committees independent external advisor during the year.
Mercer Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Mercer Kepler provides no  services to the Company and is therefore considered independent.
Mercer Keplers parent, the MMC Group, provides unrelated services to the Company in the areas of pension investment advice and actuarial services to the Trustee to the Inmarsat UK Pension Plan.
During 2017, Mercer Keplers fees were based on time and materials, and fees in relation to advice to the Committee excluding VAT and expenses totalled 49,520 2016: 84,250.
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2017 AGM The following table shows the results of the binding shareholder vote on the 2017 Remuneration Policy and of the advisory shareholder vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration of the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, at the 2017 AGM: 2017 Remuneration Policy 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration Total number % of Total number % of of votes votes cast of votes votes cast For including discretionary 291,331,925 90.39% 165,153,571 51.14% Against 30,971,298 9.61% 157,818,509 48.86% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 322,303,223 322,972,080 Votes withheld 29,263,436 n a 28,594,579 n a In light of the voting outcome on the Annual Report on Remuneration, the Committee commenced a fresh review of the Companys approach to remuneration, focusing on the Bonus Share Award plan, which was the main area which drew shareholder comment.
The Committee spent considerable time reviewing the operation of the plan and concluded that whilst the BSA has served both the Company and the shareholders well since its adoption on IPO in 2005, some aspects of it could be clarified and improved.
Two key changes to the implementation of the BSA have therefore been made, to be applied retrospectively to the award made in March 2017 as well as in future years.
Firstly, performance against each measure is now assessed on an independent basis, ie there will no longer be an opportunity to offset any underperformance against one measure with outperformance against the other.
Secondly, payout for target performance is reduced from 100% to 80% of maximum, and a stretch target is introduced, the achievement of which is required for full payout.
Payout for threshold performance remains 60% of maximum as set out in the approved Policy.
The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue with shareholders to facilitate the Committees understanding of shareholders views, and shareholders understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into remuneration decisions.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 87 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year: Rupert Pearce Tony Bates 000 000 2017 2016 2017 2016 Basic salary 583 566 477 464 1 Taxable benefits 3 4 3 3 2 Pension 17 16 17 16 3 Annual cash bonus 478 487 422 399 4 Bonus Share Award 614 857 476 664 5 Performance Share Award 180 416 137 262 Total 1,875 2,346 1,532 1,808 1 Taxable benefits: include healthcare and benefits relating to staff entertaining.
The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment benefit is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable 2 Pension: payment made by the Company as cash in lieu of pension see page 92 for details 3 Annual cash bonus: cash bonus payments in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 see pages 87 and 90 for details 4 BSA: values the BSA shares in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016.
Performance is tested prior to grant for BSA shares.
For 2016, the value is based on the spot share price on the grant date being 9 March 2017 of 7.62.
The award value has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on grant.
For 2017, as the share price on the grant date expected to be around 12 March 2018 is currently unknown, the award is valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of 5.40 5 PSA: the value at vesting of awards vesting on performance over the three-year periods ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
For 2016, the 2014 PSP is valued based on the spot share price on the vesting date of 7.92.
The award value has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on vesting, plus additional shares representing reinvested dividends.
For 2017, as the share price on the vesting date is currently unknown, the 2015 PSA is valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of 5.40 Note: the figures provided for the BSA and PSA awards in the table above have been valued in line with the single figure methodology, and based on share price assumptions at or around the time of grant.
The actual value received by the individual may differ, as the individual will receive the value of the award only when the award vests and is released at future dates, subject to the individual still being in employment on the future vesting dates.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 AUDITED ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2017 PERFORMANCE In 2017, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group financial targets and individual performance objectives.
Financial performance was measured by reference to revenue 33% and EBITDA targets 67%.
Revenue and EBITDA are two measures which have strong line-of-sight, are easily understood and are two of our key reporting metrics to shareholders.
The same performance metrics are used in the annual bonus plan for all employees.
The Committee has the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
In line with the previous approach, the Committee will disclose the 2017 financial targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
We believe the targets used are commercially sensitive if made public in the same reporting period to which they apply.
Some of the key personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2017 are noted below.
Some have been excluded where we believe they may be commercially sensitive if published.
CEO: Maritime: successful ramp up of Fleet Xpress and transition of XpressLink users to Fleet Xpress Aviation: increased number of airline contract wins and ramping up of installs and service delivery for Global Xpress services Digital: created new digital office with hiring of Chief Digital Officer with a focus and mandate on digital business commercialisation China: engaged with local companies to develop manufacturing opportunities across all Inmarsat services Key projects: reviewed technology roadmap to consider business model for Connected Car opportunity and decided not to actively process until the market opportunity matured CFO: Smart pricing: developed new product and pricing architecture and improved pricing process Optimised procurement: instigated a programme to maximise value delivered by procurement activities through cost reduction and avoidance Balance sheet management: ensured improved careful management of overdue receivables, inventory and cash management Key business programmes: introduced new simpler distribution agreements and associated terms and conditions for partners Long-term operational efficiency: implemented new billing system and ERP enhancements Investor relations: focused on increased education of satellite industry to extend shareholder base 88 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In 2017, revenues including Ligado were $1,400m, which exceeded target performance but was below stretch performance.
EBITDA including Ligado was $732m, which also exceeded target performance but was below stretch performance.
The EBITDA outturn figure includes in full the costs of the workforce reduction exercise during 2017.
Although the workforce reduction had not been budgeted for at the start of 2017, the Committee determined to include the costs in full as part of operating costs when finalising the annual bonus outcome, which reduced the final amount to be paid.
The bonus payout in respect of financial performance is 44% out of a maximum of 70% of total bonus.
The Committee also considered the Executive Directors achievement of personal objectives during the year, and payout in respect of personal performance was 22% out of a maximum of 30% of total bonus for the CEO and 27% for the CFO.
The maximum and target annual cash bonus amounts that could be made and actual bonus which will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out in the next table.
Actual bonus outcome for 2017 Target bonus Maximum bonus financial year Executive Director % of salary % of salary % of salary Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 82% Tony Bates 75% 125% 88% BSA IN RESPECT OF 2017 PERFORMANCE An allocation of shares was made on 9 March 2017 at a share price of 7.62 in respect of the March 2017 BSA.
The confirmation of these awards is based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
67% of the 2017 award was linked to EBITDA and 33% to revenue.
Two key changes to the implementation of the BSA have been made for 2017 and future years, in response to shareholder feedback.
Performance against each measure is now assessed on an independent basis.
Further, payout for target performance is reduced from 100% to 80% of maximum, and a stretch target is introduced, which needs to be met for full payout.
Payout for threshold performance remains 60% as referenced in the Policy.
Actual performance relative to the targets was as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Actual performance against target EBITDA 67% EBITDA was $732m including Ligado and the unbudgeted costs incurred for the workforce reduction which exceeded target performance but was below stretch performance Revenue 33% Revenues were $1,400m including Ligado, which exceeded target performance but were below stretch performance As was the case for the annual bonus, the EBITDA outturn figure for the purpose of the BSA also includes the one-off restructuring costs in 2017, which reduced the final outcome.
Based on performance, 81% of the original allocation of shares made in March 2017 will be awarded in March 2018, and will vest in equal tranches in March 2019, 2020 and 2021.
The table below shows the confirmation of the number of shares awarded for the 2017 BSA.
Conversion rate Number based on Confirmed Allocation of shares performance number of shares Maximum strike price allocated in for year ended to be awarded in Executive Director monetary award 9 March 2017 March 2017 31 December 2017 March 2018 Rupert Pearce 1,067,486 7.62 140,182 81% 113,547 Tony Bates 827,347 7.62 108,647 81% 88,004 As per our approach for the annual cash bonus and for the same reasons, the Committee will disclose the 2017 BSA targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 89 2015 PSA AWARD IN RESPECT OF PERFORMANCE OVER THE PERIOD 2015-2017 In 2015, the CEO and CFO received awards of conditional shares under the PSA, which are set out in the table below.
The outcome of the 2015 PSA is that they will each receive 30% of their total award.
Awards Face value at Award as granted Market price at grant of award Awards Executive Director Date of grant % of salary 2015 date of award 2015 confirmed Vesting date Rupert Pearce 30 March 2015 200% 111,089 9.34 1,037,294 33,327 30 March 2018 Tony Bates 30 March 2015 175% 84,337 9.34 787,497 25,301 30 March 2018 Vesting of the awards is dependent on three-year TSR vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, three-year EBITDA growth excluding Ligado, and the achievement of specific strategic objectives, all measured over the three years to 31 December 2017 and weighted 30%, 30% and 40%, respectively.
2015 was the first year in which the Company introduced the use of strategic objectives to measure performance in the PSA.
The Company believes that it is important for management to be focused on delivering critical strategic programmes which will drive long-term shareholder value creation, and the strategic objectives described below were selected to assess delivery of this value.
There is no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows, which deliver an overall award of 30%: Weighting Actual Actual vesting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target performance outcome Three-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting 17th percentile 0% out of 30% excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile Three-year EBITDA growth p. a.
0% out of 30% excluding Ligado 4%: 0% vesting 10%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 4% and 10% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are noted below with details.
Achievement against See below 30% out of 40% strategic objectives was considered as a whole Details of performance against the strategic objectives included but were not limited to: Specific targets Actual performance GLOBAL XPRESS Completion of the successful launch and market entry for next generation of Inmarsat 5 satellites Launch of Inmarsat-5 F2, F3 and Global CSI, and also We had successful launches of Inmarsat-5 F2 launched April 2015, F3 launched December 2015, Global CSI then the launch of Inmarsat-5 F4 December 2015 and F4 launched May 2016: Global CSI was later than planned because of launch vehicle issues How the run rate of GX revenues was against internal GX revenues in 2017 of $142.3m and the Company is on track to meet the $500m GX revenue target expectations and being on track to deliver end of year five from Global CSI, a $500m p. a. run rate of revenue Successful conversion of XpressLink XL into Conversion of XL to FX well underway with 1,000 vessels migrated although the programme is running slower Global Xpress GX in the maritime business area than expected due in part to delayed GX CSI by 31 December 2017 How well we could penetrate the Energy resources We have various Take or Pay arrangements with key partners including Boeing, Honeywell and RigNet.
and other Enterprise markets as well as extending further Generally these have gone well and are tracking or exceeding their agreements with us, although the RigNet into broader Government and milsatcoms markets contract has been cancelled.
On the enterprise and government opportunities for GX, we saw traction starting in 2017 Successful extension into global Air Passenger We are very pleased with the aviation In-Flight Connectivity opportunity with over 1,300 commercial aircraft Connectivity markets under contract and around 3,000 aircraft in our new business pipeline : plus we have seen progress with further wide-body aircraft GX certification and JetConneX gaining traction 90 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Specific targets Actual performance S-BAND Putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation leadership programme business case which will support material revenues beyond 2017 Deliver the S-band satellite for launch on time The S-band satellite was launched to plan in H1 2017 and to budget Deliver ACGC network and OBE for first revenues The ACGC network and OBE is in progress with first revenues now expected H1 2018.
This was delayed due to additional terminal development requirements and for testing to be completed Secure spectrum licences to operate the EAN All 28 EU and 2 non-EU MSS licences were secured by H1 2017 and we have all 28 EU and 2 non-EU ACGC combined satellite ACGC service licences granted or granted in principle by H2 2017 Secure airline wins strategic channel technology Partnerships are in place with Thales, Rockwell Collins, Zodiac and Sita OnAir partners for future revenue growth L-BAND Sustaining L-band revenues despite migration of services from L-band to Global Xpress Ka-band, through a reorientation, expansion and globalisation of L-band services The Level of L-band revenues in 2017 vs. 2014 L-band related revenues of $776m 2017 as compared to $803m 2014 reflect a faster movement of L-band services to our new Ka-band services and also some elements where there have been lay-ups or decommissioning of vessels so that services are no longer used How we would assess the success of new revenue Revenues from Isatphone, IsatHub, HDR, IDP, SB200, LAISR, L-Tac, FleetOne of $87m 2017 as compared product programmes, for example: Isatphone, to $28m 2014 and there has been a relaunch of Fleet One to target the fisheries market IsatHub, SwiftBroadband200, FleetOne, LTAC Success in key globalisation programmes by our The Global Government business unit now earns revenue in more than 40 countries.
In India we completed Global Government business into new countries, the build of a GSPS gateway with BSNL which gives us the opportunity to work closely with BSNL to develop the our presence and impact on some of the BRICs satellite market.
We have forged local manufacturing agreements with companies in China.
We continued and also channel evolution to work closely with the channel, with Global Government focusing on how they could support local partners to target new customers Maintenance and continued focus on the relationship The relationship with Ligado has continued to be collaborative with a new significant agreement signed in 2016 with Ligado for L-band spectrum usage putting in place a new payment profile and arrangement for accessing the spectrum in North America: there was a step up from $50m p. a. to c. $130m p. a. for agreed periods The total amount that will vest in 2018, subject to continued employment, will therefore be 30% of the maximum award.
Messrs Pearce and Bates will receive 33,327 and 25,301 shares respectively, plus dividends reinvested as additional shares which are added to the number of shares that are awarded on the vesting date of 30 March 2018.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE OF 2016 PERFORMANCE TARGETS AUDITED ANNUAL CASH BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2016 PERFORMANCE Last year, the Company committed to disclosing the 2016 bonus financial targets in this years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets and actual performance against them are set out below: Performance targets Actual bonus Weighting Actual outcome % of financial Threshold Target Stretch performance % of financial Performance measure element $m $m $m $m element EBITDA 67% 548 645 710 675 52.4% Revenue 33% 1,147 1,274 1,338 1,210 10.0% Total 100% 62.4% The Committee also considered the Executive Directors achievement of personal objectives during the year see the 2016 report for disclosure of examples of personal objectives for 2016, and payout in respect of personal performance was 27% out of a maximum of 30% of total bonus for both the CEO and the CFO.
Therefore, the formulaic bonus outcome was 88.3% of salary for both the CEO and the CFO.
The Executive Directors volunteered a reduction of 3% of target bonus to their bonuses in order to enhance the staff bonus pool to support retention and engagement.
The actual post-reduction bonus outcome was therefore 86.1% of salary.
The Committee believes these outcomes were warranted and reflective of Company and individual performance in 2016.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 91 BSA IN RESPECT OF 2016 PERFORMANCE The 2016 BSA targets and actual performance against them are set out below: Performance targets Actual Weighting Threshold Target performance Performance measure % of maximum $m $m $m EBITDA 60% 548 645 675 Revenue 30% 1,147 1,274 1,210 Non-financial measure linked to the management of a strategic contract 10% Renegotiation and management of this strategic contract were successful with benefits being received by the Company through increased annual payments and giving the Company protected rights for a further period of time.
Based on these combined factors, performance targets for this element were judged by the Committee to have been met in full Under the previous BSA structure, and as reported in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration, the maximum number of shares was awarded for the achievement of target performance, and performance against the two financial measures was considered on a blended basis.
This had been the first time since the operation of the BSA since Inmarsat became a listed company that there had been a need for consideration of the blended approach as revenue performance was below the level of performance required to deliver 100% of the target.
As a result, all of the shares originally allocated in March 2016 were awarded in March 2017, and will vest in equal tranches in March 2018, 2019 and 2020.
In response to shareholder comments following the publication of the outcome of this award last year, the BSA structure has been revised for 2017 and future years to require independent assessment of performance measures and to include stretch targets see page 88 for further information.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2017 AUDITED BSA IN RESPECT OF 2016 PERFORMANCE An allocation of shares was made on 23 March 2016 at a share price of 9.30 in respect of the March 2016 BSA.
The confirmation of these awards was based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2016.
As advised in the 2016 report, the performance targets were achieved in full and the full number of shares originally allocated in March 2016 was awarded in March 2017, and will vest in equal tranches in March 2018, 2019 and 2020.
Conversion rate Share price Number based on Confirmed Share price Face value Maximum on date of of shares performance number of on date of on date monetary allocation allocated in for year ended shares awarded share award of award Executive Director award 23 March 2016 March 2016 31 December 2016 in March 2017 9 March 2017 9 March 2017 Rupert Pearce 1,046,564 9.30 112,564 100% 112,564 7.615 857,174 Tony Bates 844,125 9.30 87,241 100% 87,241 7.615 664,340 2017 PSA AWARD IN RESPECT OF PERFORMANCE OVER THE PERIOD 2017-2019 In March 2017, the Executive Directors received PSA share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2019.
Awards granted Market price at Face value at Award as Executive Director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award % of salary Vesting date Rupert Pearce 10 March 2017 140,182 7.62 1,067,486 185% 10 March 2020 Tony Bates 10 March 2017 108,647 7.62 827,347 175% 10 March 2020 The award levels, which are unchanged from last year, fall within the normal maximum permitted amount of 200% under the Remuneration Policy, and were determined taking into account the overall market pay data, and the performance of the Company against its prior year business performance.
Vesting of the awards is dependent on three-year TSR vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, three-year EBITDA growth, and achievement of specific strategic objectives.
Strategic objectives were first introduced as a performance measure in our long-term share plan in 2015.
The Company continues to believe that it is important for management to be focused on delivering critical strategic programmes which will drive long-term shareholder value creation.
The strategic objectives described below are the ones identified to deliver this value for the three-year period to 31 December 2019.
Relative TSR, EBITDA and strategic objectives will all be measured over the three years to 31 December 2019 and weighted 30%, 30% and 40%, respectively.
There will be no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards, and part-cycle updates on achievement against the strategic objectives, are as follows: 92 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target Three-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile Three-year EBITDA growth p. a.
30% Less than 3%: nil vesting excluding Ligado 3%: 0% vesting 7%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 3% and 7% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Global Xpress: complete successful market entry to satellite broadband market through the next generations of Inmarsat satellites Part-cycle update: In 2017 we launched our fourth GX Ka-band satellite successfully and it is operational.
We have continued to make good progress with GX take-up in maritime, government and aviation sectors.
The Company is on track to meet its target of $500m GX revenues by the end of year five after global launch Aviation: put in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case to support material revenues forecast over the LRBP period Part-cycle update: In 2017 there was double-digit revenue growth reflecting IFC installation revenues and strong BGA and SoS growth.
We have around 3,000 aircraft in our new business pipeline.
I-5 F4 and the S-band satellites were successfully launched L-band: work assiduously to sustain L-band revenues despite GX migration and both ongoing tight budgets and strong competition in all markets Part-cycle update: Our Enterprise Business Unit has focused on new business segments such as transportation to identify future revenue growth and our Government business continued to open new country market opportunities and secured new contracts in the U. S. We opened, with BSNL our partner in India, a GSPS gateway and see additional opportunities in this market.
We have seen increased competition and also experienced faster migration of our FleetBroadband service to Fleet Xpress Strategic contract: maximise the overall net contribution of the contract to Inmarsat Part-cycle update: Our focus has been to continue to operate collaboratively and in a focused way to maintain the benefits of this contract and we have delivered a material increase in contract revenues Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period PENSION AUDITED The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys defined contribution pension plan arrangements.
They do not participate in the defined benefit plan.
The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan is age 65 with an employee able to retire from age 55.
An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan or not join the pension plan and will receive a capped employer contribution paid as additional salary.
The current employer contributions to the pension scheme subject to the cap of 149,400 for the 2016 17 tax year and 153,600 for the 2017 18 tax year are 12.5% of capped salary.
The current arrangement is to pay 12.5% of capped salary, with the capped salary level increasing nominally each year.
Neither Mr Pearce nor Mr Bates is a member of the UK defined contribution pension plan.
They receive a cash supplement of 12.5% of capped salary, with the capped salary level increasing nominally each year.
This amount is reduced for the cost to the Company of the employer national insurance, the effect of which is that the Executive Directors receive an equivalent 11% of capped salary.
The contribution levels are equivalent to approximately 3% of salary for each Executive Director.
Executive Director Pension value Rupert Pearce 17,000, equivalent to 3% of salary, was paid in 2017 Tony Bates 17,000, equivalent to 3% of salary, was paid in 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 93 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year: Base fee Additional fees Taxable benefits Total 1 000 000 000 000 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2 Andrew Sukawaty 312.6 306.4 0.0 0.0 18.0 17.5 330.6 323.9 Simon Bax 54.5 53.5 15.2 12.5 0.4 0.0 70.1 66.0 Sir Bryan Carsberg 54.5 53.5 16.7 12.7 1.1 1.2 72.3 67.4 3 Stephen Davidson 2.7 53.5 0.8 17.7 0.0 0.9 3.5 72.1 4 Warren Finegold 23.0 4.7 0.1 27.7 3 Kathleen Flaherty 9.4 53.5 1.4 5.0 0.0 0.0 10.8 58.5 5 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 109.1 106.9 5.5 5.0 0.0 0.0 114.6 111.9 6 Phillipa McCrostie 54.5 18.0 5.5 1.8 1.9 2.2 62.0 22.0 Janice Obuchowski 54.5 53.5 11.1 7.8 0.0 0.0 65.6 61.3 Dr Abe Peled 54.5 53.5 30.3 25.2 0.0 0.0 84.8 78.7 Robert Ruijter 54.5 53.5 15.2 12.5 0.0 0.0 69.7 66.0 Dr Hamadoun Tour 54.5 53.5 11.1 7.8 0.0 0.0 65.6 61.3 Total 838.3 859.3 117.5 108.0 21.5 21.8 977.3 989.1 1 The taxable benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings.
The tax due in respect of these benefits is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible 2 Mr Sukawaty receives healthcare cover 3 Mr Davidson and Mrs Flaherty retired as Non-Executive Directors on 19 January and 2 March 2017, respectively 4 Mr Finegold was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2017 5 The fees for General C. Robert Kehler Rtd include a fee of 53,470.98 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary in the U. S. 6 Mrs McCrostie was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2016 EXIT PAYMENTS MADE IN THE YEAR AUDITED There were no exit payments made in 2017.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to past Directors in 2017.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Executive Directors do not currently hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Pearce holds various positions in organisations affiliated to the satellite industry which are disclosed in his biography on page 59: none are currently fee-paying.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2018 BASE SALARY Salaries are typically reviewed annually in July for the Executive Directors and the general workforce.
In 2017, the Company made the decision that due to business circumstances at the time, the 2016 salary review would be deferred for the Executive Directors and Executive Management Board to January 2017.
Based on the subsequent review, the Committee approved a salary increase of 2% for both Executive Directors, effective from 1 January 2017 see 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration for further details.
The Committee conducted its 2017 salary review in July 2017, and approved an increase of 2% for both the CEO and the CFO.
This is consistent with the increase across the Executive Team, and is below the average salary increase across the Group of 2.4% and across eligible UK employees of 2.7%.
The Committee believes the new salaries are appropriate in the context of market pay data and continued strong individual performance.
Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2018, which is the same time for the general workforce.
The table below shows the Executive Directors salaries as at January 2017 and July 2017.
Salary at Salary at Executive Director 1 July 2017 % change 1 January 20171 Rupert Pearce 588,600 2% 577,024 Tony Bates 482,200 2% 472,770 1 2016 salary review was deferred from 1 July 2016 to 1 January 2017 94 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PENSION No change to pension provision is currently anticipated for 2018.
ANNUAL CASH BONUS The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 2018 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2017, and will be 125% of salary.
The annual bonus will continue to have a financial element and an element linked to personal performance.
The financial element of the bonus, totalling 70% of maximum bonus opportunity, will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA 67% of the maximum award and revenue 33%.
As in 2017, 30% of the maximum opportunity will be linked to the achievement of personal objectives.
BSA SHARES In March 2018, a monetary BSA award will be made and nominally converted to shares immediately as happened in 2017.
As in previous years, the level of award will not be confirmed until the results for 2018 have been determined and may be lower but not higher than the initial award.
There is no change to the vesting timetable: the shares will vest in equal tranches in March 2020, 2021 and 2022, subject to continued employment.
With the nominal conversion of the shares at the outset, this more closely aligns the value delivered to participants under this award with the value created for shareholders over the same period.
The number of the shares actually awarded will be determined in March 2019 after performance has been assessed.
The level of award in March 2018 will be 185% and 175% of salary for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates, respectively, the same levels as in 2017.
The performance measures will be the same as the financial metrics used in the 2018 annual bonus.
67% of the award will be linked to EBITDA and 33% to revenue.
We made two key changes to the implementation of the BSA for 2017 and future years, in response to shareholder feedback.
Therefore, for 2018, performance against each measure will be assessed on an independent basis.
Further, payout for target performance will be 80% rather than 100% of maximum, and a stretch target is introduced, the achievement of which will result in full payout.
Payout for threshold performance will remain 60% of maximum as stated in the Policy.
As in previous years, the BSA performance targets relate to annual performance and will therefore be disclosed in full on a retrospective basis.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the award levels, and believe they are appropriate in the context of the Companys ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors will contribute personally towards overall Group performance.
PSA SHARES A PSA award will be made in March 2018, and the level of award will be 185% of salary for Mr Pearce and 175% for Mr Bates, the same levels as in 2017.
The PSA awards in 2018 will operate on the same basis as they did in 2017.
Awards vest after three years based upon the same three performance conditions, measured over the three years to 31 December 2020.
The targets are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target Three-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile Three-year EBITDA growth p. a.
30% Less than 3%: nil vesting excluding Ligado 3%: 0% vesting 7%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 3% and 7% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Capture the maximum number of broadband platforms for our high speed GX services and EAN aviation service Reposition L-band for new growth by focusing on additional targeted market opportunities Establish our Digital Platform and business to drive new services and product innovation Transform our operating environment to be more efficient in service delivery for customers and efficiency for all stakeholders Maximise the overall contribution from an ongoing key strategic contract Create a high-performance organisation which enhances our employee value proposition and encourages a high-performance culture Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 95 The EBITDA range for the 2018 PSA was considered by the Committee taking into account the long range business plan which was approved by the Board in February 2018 as well as recognising the dynamic competitive market where the Company would need to maintain its position in its existing key markets and seek how to maximise revenue opportunities through targeted expenditure to invest for the future.
The Committee also considered the market consensus as part of its deliberations as well as performance of other satellite operators.
In line with the 2017 Remuneration Policy, a mandatory two-year holding period for Executive Directors will apply to vested PSA awards, effective from awards made in 2017.
No shares may be sold during the holding period except to cover tax liabilities.
Vested but held shares are treated as owned by the individual, and count towards shareholding for the purpose of calculating achievement of shareholding guidelines.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The current NED fee levels are set out in the table below.
Fees were reviewed during the year in the context of market fee levels and time commitment, and increased by 2% with effect from July 2017.
NED fees as at 31 December 2017 Amount Basic fee 55,080 Senior Independent Director inclusive of any additional Committee fees 85,680 Non-Executive Chairman inclusive of any additional Committee fees 315,690 Additional Committee fees: Chairman of the Audit Committee 15,300 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15,300 Chairman of the Nominations Committee 10,200 Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee 10,200 Committee membership per Committee 5,610 Fees will next be reviewed in July 2018 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman also receives international healthcare cover 17,986 in 2017.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the Companys performance over the last nine years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Companys shares compared to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our performance against a broad equity market index, and Inmarsat is a constituent of the index.
The Committee will review the appropriateness of the comparator group used in future reports to shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Inmarsat FTSE 350 xIT Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 96 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CEO NINE-YEAR REMUNERATION HISTORY AUDITED The table below details the Chief Executives single figure of total remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same nine-year period.
For the years 2009-2011, the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Andrew Sukawaty AS was the same individual reflecting a salary for the combined role.
Rupert Pearce RP became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
However, because Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive Chairman in 2012, 2013 and 2014, we have also shown his single figure in this table for information 3 Formulaic bonus outcome prior to application of voluntary reduction 4 BSA payout calculated on new basis where 80% is paid for target performance PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group.
The data is based on all Inmarsat UK employees, including Executive Directors apart from the CEO and the senior management team.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION FROM 2016 TO 2017 CEO Other UK employees 2017 2016 000 000 % change % change 1 4 Salary 583 566 3.0% 6.1% 2 Taxable benefits 2.0 2.0 -1.8% 3 Short-term incentives 1,091 1,344 -18.8% 7.9% 1 The CEOs salaries shown relate to the average salaries paid in respect of each of the financial years 2 Taxable benefits include healthcare benefits 3 Represents the annual bonus payment for the financial year just ended plus the value of BSA shares to be awarded corresponding to the relevant financial year at share prices as set out in the single figure table on page 87 4 The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year The Company will be publishing its report on Gender Pay in 2018, in line with UK legislation.
A copy will be placed on our website and we have provided some comments on the report in the Resources and Relationships section of this Annual Report on page 44.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, we show below remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders dividends and share buy-back and other significant spend.
Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spend as it shows the investment being made in the Companys future growth.
Our business model creates value that is distributed in the form of remuneration to employees, returns to shareholders and funds which are reinvested in the business.
We have invested significantly in recent years in the business while at the same time reviewing pay levels to be competitive and seek to secure good returns to shareholders through increasing capital value in the share price and have previously increased dividend payments each year.
We are focused on putting in place a sound platform for the long-term success of the Group.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY $m $312.9m Total employee pay $267.7m $249.8m Dividends $235.7m $598.7m Cash capital expenditure $412.9m 2017 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 97 DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AUDITED The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2017 based on a share price of 4.908 as at 31 December 2017: Unvested 3 Unvested and subject to Shareholding Current Shares held as Shares held as and subject performance guideline shareholding Requirement 1 2 at 31 Dec 2016 at 31 Dec 2017 to deferral conditions % salary % salary met?
Rupert Pearce 824,254 920,623 268,782 252,746 500% 992% Yes 4 Tony Bates 17,389 59,682 203,210 195,888 500% 268% No Andrew Sukawaty 1,076,825 1,172,352 Simon Bax 11,500 23,000 Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327 5 Stephen Davidson 1,500 1,500 5 Kathleen Flaherty 3,073 3,073 6 Warren Finegold 30,000 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 2,000 3,000 Phillipa McCrostie 2,000 Janice Obuchowski 7,000 7,000 Dr Abe Peled 10,000 38,000 Robert Ruijter Dr Hamadoun Tour 1 The unvested and subject to deferral column includes BSA BSP awards granted in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and 30% of the 2015 PSA as performance has been tested 2 The unvested and subject to performance conditions column includes PSP PSA awards made in 2016 and 2017 3 Includes the BSP BSA conditional awards made in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and associated dividend shares, and 30% of the 2015 PSA 4 Mr Bates joined the Company in June 2014.
The shareholding guideline of five times salary is to be achieved over a fiveto seven-year period 5 Mr Davidson and Mrs Flaherty retired as Non-Executive Directors on 19 January and 2 March 2017, respectively 6 Mr Finegold was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2017 Several of our Non-Executive Directors have significant shareholdings.
There were no changes in Directors interests from 31 December 2017 to 9 March 2018.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INMARSAT LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS AND ALL-EMPLOYEE PLANS AUDITED This information is accurate as at 31 December 2017.
INMARSAT BONUS SHARE AWARDS AUDITED The table below shows details of outstanding BSA BSP awards after the award has been converted from a monetary value or allocation of shares into conditional awards, which vest over a subsequent three-year period.
Reinvested Share awards Awarded dividends Vested Share awards held at during during during held at Award 1 2 3 1 January 2017 the year the year the year 31 December 2017 price Vesting date Rupert Pearce Share award confirmed in March 2014 Fully vested: March 2017 26,954 26,954 6.89 was the last vesting date Share award confirmed in March 2015 March 2016, March 2017 54,912 1,640 27,454 29,062 8.91 and March 2018 Share award confirmed in March 2016 March 2017, March 2018 116,668 4,544 38,888 82,324 9.30 and March 2019 Share award confirmed in March 2017 March 2018, March 2019 112,564 6,576 119,140 7.62 and March 2020 Tony Bates Share award confirmed in March 2015 March 2016, March 2017 36,525 1,067 18,262 19,330 8.91 and March 2018 Share award confirmed in March 2016 March 2017, March 2018 88,572 3,449 29,522 62,499 9.30 and March 2019 Share award confirmed in March 2017 March 2018, March 2019 87,241 5,097 92,338 7.62 and March 2020 98 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Reinvested Share awards Awarded dividends Vested Share awards held at during during during held at Award 1 2 3 1 January 2017 the year the year the year 31 December 2017 price Vesting date 4 Andrew Sukawaty Share award confirmed in March 2014 March 2016, March 2017 64,470 64,470 6.89 and March 2018 Share award confirmed in March 2015 March 2016, March 2017 95,875 2,801 47,935 50,741 8.91 and March 2018 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date 2 On 9 March 2017, Mr Sukawaty, Mr Pearce and Mr Bates sold sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance.
The shares were sold at a price of 7.4957 per share, representing a monetary value of vested shares of 842,554, 699,318 and 358,174 respectively 3 The award price is the price when the shares change from being allocated to granted following the performance test being completed 4 Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director Mr Pearce and Mr Bates will receive BSA awards in March 2018 of 113,547 and 88,004 shares respectively for the allocation made in March 2017.
INMARSAT PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARDS AUDITED The table below shows details of outstanding PSA PSP awards.
Reinvested Share awards Awarded dividends Vested Lapsed Share awards held at during during during during held at Award 1 1 January 2017 the year the year the year the year 31 December 2017 price Vesting date Rupert Pearce 2 Award made in 2014 96,954 12,464 52,520 56,898 6.98 March 2017 3 Award made in 2015 111,089 111,089 9.34 March 2018 Award made in 2016 112,564 112,564 9.2975 March 2019 Award made in 2017 140.182 140,182 7.6150 March 2020 Tony Bates 2 Award made in 2014 58,919 8,122 32,179 34,862 7.64 June 2017 3 Award made in 2015 84,337 84,337 9.34 March 2018 Award made in 2016 87,241 87,241 9.2975 March 2019 Award made in 2017 108,647 108,647 7.6150 March 2020 4 Andrew Sukawaty 2 Award made in 2014 176,207 22,653 31,817 167,043 6.98 March 2017 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date 2 48% of the 2014 PSP vested in 2017 3 30% of the 2015 PSA will vest in March 2018 4 Mr Sukawatys outstanding PSP award made to him when he was Executive Chairman vested on a time pro-rata basis on the respective normal vesting date for the period he was an Executive Director, subject to performance INMARSAT SHARESAVE SCHEME 2017 AWARD AUDITED The information below relates to the UK Sharesave plan which the Executive Directors can contribute monthly savings to over a three-year period.
Granted Exercised Options held at Date Options held at during during 31 December Option price from which Executive Director 1 January 2017 the year the year 2017 per share exercisable Expiry date Rupert Pearce 1,584 1,584 5.68 August 2019 January 2020 1,489 1,489 6.02 August 2020 January 2021 Tony Bates 1,584 1,584 5.68 August 2019 January 2020 1,489 1,489 6.02 August 2020 January 2021 APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 9 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by SIMON BAX CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 9 March 2018
