Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 81 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee There was strong performance across the 2017 bonus Dear Shareholder, scorecard with many of the maximum targets being met including those for profit, customer NPS, number of high I am pleased to present the 2017 Directors Remuneration severity operational incidents and employee engagement.
Report which sets out details of Directors remuneration in There was, however, room for improvement under the respect of 2017, our new 2018 Directors Remuneration Policy diversity and broker NPS metrics with the threshold targets not and how we intend to implement the new Policy in 2018. being met.
Alongside the outstanding performance against individual targets, the Committee determined that 85% and Overview of 2017 performance 84% of the bonus was earned by the Chief Executive Officer In 2017, the Bank continued to perform strongly delivering CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO respectively.
Full details financial growth underpinned by an excellent reputation for are set out on pages 91 to 92.
As in previous years, 50% of this customer service.
Underlying pre-tax profits grew by 21% to award will be deferred into shares for a three-year period.
167.7m and the loan book grew by 23% to 7.3bn whilst maintaining a stable net interest margin of 3.16%.
The first awards under the Performance Share Plan following the IPO were made in March 2015 with a three-year Customer NPS was an outstanding 62 and the Bank had a performance period ending on 31 December 2017.
Given the customer retention rate of 90% in 2017.
In addition, whilst the strong performance over this period, OSB has met the relative Banks headcount continues to grow with the business, the TSR and EPS growth targets in full and as such the awards 2017 employee engagement survey showed improvement in all categories.
vested to the participants in March 2018.
Incentive outcomes for 2017 New Remuneration Policy and implementation in 2018 The 2017 Executive Bonus Scheme was based 75% on the During 2017 the Committee reviewed the Directors Business Balanced Scorecard, which measures corporate Remuneration Policy, which having last been approved by performance against Financial, Customer, Quality and Staff shareholders at the 2015 AGM, is required to be submitted to metrics, and 25% on Personal objectives.
Targets for each our shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
measure were set at the start of the year and were assessed by the Committee following year-end.
Following extensive discussion and engagement with our main shareholders, the Committee concluded that certain changes should be made to our Remuneration Policy to support the continued long-term success of the Bank and to ensure the structure remains in line with evolving regulatory and investor guidelines.
The changes are summarised below.
Fixed pay At the time of the IPO in 2014, the salary levels for the CEO and CFO were consciously set below a level associated with the scope of the role, with the intention that these would be increased over time if the executives delivered the corporate strategy, individual performance was strong and as they grew into their roles as directors of a listed company.
Based on these factors, over the last policy period i. e. 2015 to 2017 we have therefore increased salaries, each year, above the average for the wider employee population.
The Committee feels that the salaries, taken together with pension and benefits, are now appropriately positioned.
Going forward, subject to performance, the Committee anticipates that salary increases will be in line with the wider employee population for the life of the new policy, unless there are exceptional circumstances such as a significant increase in the scope of the role or complexity of the business.
For 2018, the base salary increase for Executive Directors will be 3%, slightly below the average increase for the workforce generally 3.9%.
We have also maintained the pension contribution at 13% of salary which is in line with the policy for the wider senior management population.
82 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Improving alignment of interest with shareholders Annual bonus plan and Performance Share Plan structure We are also introducing mechanisms to align further the Whilst we have taken steps to ensure that the fixed pay executives interests with shareholders and the long-term levels are now positioned appropriately, in the view of the success of the Company, including the introduction of a Committee, the current incentive opportunity no longer two-year post-vesting holding period for PSP awards made rewards executives suitably for the continued delivery of from 2018 and increasing the shareholding guidelines for the outstanding performance and building on the growth in CEO and CFO by 50% of salary CEO: 250% of salary, CFO: 200% value to date.
The requirement to defer 50% of any bonus earned into shares for three years will also continue to operate.
We Therefore, we propose to increase the annual bonus have also reviewed malus and clawback provisions to ensure opportunity under the policy from 100% to 150% of salary and that these are readily enforceable if required.
set the bonus opportunity at this policy level for the duration of the policy period.
The maximum Performance Share Plan Concluding remarks PSP award under the policy will remain unchanged at 200% I would like to thank Nathan Moss who stepped down as a of salary.
However, within this unchanged policy maximum, the usual PSP award will be increased from 130% and 100% member of the Committee when he left the Board in May 2017 of salary for the CEO and CFO respectively, to 150% of salary and to welcome Andrew Doman, who joined the Committee for both.
Awards above 150% of salary would only be made as a member in September 2017. in exceptional circumstances.
If the Committee determines that the usual PSP award should be increased above 150% of I hope you agree with the rationale for the proposed changes salary, this would only be done with prior investor consultation.
and will support the resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report at the 2018 AGM.
We have a track record of setting stretching targets appropriate for the growth prospects of the Company Mary McNamara and taking account of risk, and the increase to incentive Chair of the Remuneration Committee opportunity ensures that any increase in remuneration levels 15 March 2018 will only be made if superior performance continues to be delivered.
Furthermore, the increase in opportunity is part of a package of structural proposals, as detailed below, which provides greater alignment with the business strategy and our shareholders long-term interests.
Finally, increasing the incentive opportunity would lead to total remuneration being broadly at a mid-market level.
Performance conditions attached to 2018 annual bonus and Performance Share Plan The annual bonus in 2017 was based 75% on the Business Balanced Scorecard and 25% on Personal performance.
We propose to reduce the weighting on personal performance to 10%, with the 15% balance moved to the financial element of the Business Balanced Scorecard for the duration of the policy.
For the 2018 PSP award of 150% of salary, a new return measure ROE will be introduced for 20% of the award, to drive and reward the efficient use of capital.
This new measure will be alongside the focus on profitable growth EPS, 40% of the award and continued stock market outperformance relative TSR vs the FTSE 250 constituents, 40% of the award.
The addition of a third measure will mean the executives will have to deliver performance across a higher number of metrics to receive the increase in PSP quantum, making it harder to receive the higher quantum.
In addition, in line with regulatory requirements and to strengthen the alignment of performance and reward further, the discretionary assessment on vesting of the PSP will also be strengthened.
At the time of vesting, the Committee will assess whether the formulaic vesting outcome is aligned with the underlying performance of the Company, risk appetite and individual conduct over the period.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 83 Objectives of the Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy The overarching principles of the Remuneration Policy are to: Promote the long-term success of the Company.
This section describes our Directors Remuneration Policy Attract, motivate and retain high-performing employees.
the Remuneration Policy which is subject to shareholder Adhere to and respond to the regulatory framework for approval at the AGM on 10 May 2018 and, if approved, will be the financial services sector and UK listed companies effective from this date.
Strike an appropriate balance between risk-taking Changes to the Policy and reward.
The following changes have been made to the previous Encourage and support a strong sales and service culture Directors Remuneration Policy.
to meet the needs of our customers.
Reward the achievement of the overall business objectives Annual bonus of the Group.
The maximum opportunity has been increased to 150% of Align employees interests with those of shareholders salary to provide greater incentive for delivering the future and customers.
Be consistent with the Groups risk policies and systems to guard against inappropriate risk-taking.
The proportion of bonus based on the Business Balanced Scorecard and personal performance has been changed from How the views of employees and shareholders are taken 75:25 to 90:10. into account The Committee does not formally consult directly with Performance Share Plan employees on executive pay but receives periodic updates A post-vesting holding period will be introduced on awards in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Company.
Any shares vesting may not be sold for two As set out in the policy table overleaf, in setting remuneration years after selling sufficient shares to pay tax.
This provides for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the greater alignment between shareholders and executives and overall approach to reward for employees in the Company extends the time horizon of each grant to five years.
and salary increases will ordinarily be in line in percentage of salary terms with those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the In line with regulatory guidance, the performance underpin Committee is satisfied that the decisions made in relation has been strengthened such that the Committee will to Executive Directors pay are made with an appropriate undertake a discretionary assessment of the level of vesting understanding of the wider workforce.
The Board has begun to ensure it is in line with the underlying performance of the work to examine how it can engage more widely with Company, takes into account financial and non-financial risk stakeholders, including employees.
As part of this initiative, and the individuals conduct.
the Committee will look into the best way to engage with employees on how executive pay aligns with the pay of the Share ownership guidelines wider workforce.
The share ownership guidelines have been increased by 50% of salary to 250% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary The Committee will seek to engage with major shareholders for the CFO in order to strengthen the alignment of interest and the main shareholder representative bodies and proxy with shareholders.
advisory firms when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the Remuneration Policy or its Other changes implementation.
In addition, we will consider any shareholder The maximum pension contribution will remain at 13% of feedback received in relation to the AGM.
salary, however the individual will not be required to make a contribution into the plan to receive this.
This is in line with the This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, senior leadership population and enables greater flexibility will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of within HMRC pension limits.
the effectiveness of the Remuneration Policy.
The flexibility to change the benefits offered has been included should the Company offer other market competitive benefits in the future.
Policy overview This Policy has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended in 2013.
The Policy has been developed taking into account a number of regulatory and governance principles, including: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 The regulatory framework applying to the Financial Services Sector including the Dual-regulated firms Remuneration Code and provisions of CRD IV The executive remuneration guidelines of the main institutional investors and their representative bodies.
84 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below and accompanying notes describe the Policy for Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions Maximum Increases will generally be broadly Salary To reward Executives for the Paid monthly.
in line with the average of the role and duties required.
Higher increases may Base salaries are usually reviewed be awarded in exceptional Recognises individuals annually, with any changes usually circumstances such as a material experience, responsibility effective from 1 April.
increase in the scope of the role, and performance.
following the appointment of a No performance conditions apply to the new executive which could also payment of salary.
However, when setting include internal promotions to salaries, account is taken of an individuals bring an initially below-market specific role, duties, experience and contribution to the organisation.
package in line with market over time or in response to market As part of the salary review process, the factors.
Committee takes account of individual and corporate performance, increases provided to the wider workforce and the external market for UK listed companies both in the financial services sector and across all sectors.
Benefits To provide market The Company currently provides: There is no maximum cap on competitive benefits to car allowance benefits, as the cost of benefits ensure the well-being of life assurance may vary according to the external employees.
private medical insurance, and may pay other benefits as appropriate for the role.
Pension To provide retirement Directors may participate in a defined Up to 13% of salary.
contribution plan, or, if they are in excess of the HMRC annual or lifetime allowances for contributions, may elect to receive cash in lieu of all or some of such benefit.
Annual bonus To incentivise and reward The annual bonus targets will have a 90% The maximum bonus opportunity individuals for the weighting based on performance under an is 150% of salary.
achievement of pre-defined, agreed balanced scorecard which includes Committee approved, an element of risk appraisal.
Within the The threshold level for payment is annual financial, operational scorecard at least 50% of the bonus will up to 25% for any measure.
and individual objectives be based on financial performance.
10% which are closely linked to of bonus will be based on personal the corporate strategy.
The objectives in the scorecard, and the weightings on each element will be set annually, and may be flexed according to role.
Each element will be assessed independently, but with Committee discretion to flex the payout including to zero to ensure there is a strong link between payout and performance.
50% of any bonus earned will be deferred into an award over shares.
These deferred shares will normally vest after three years provided that the executive remains in employment at the end of the three-year period.
Clawback malus provisions apply, as described in note 1 below.
Clawback and malus provisions apply to both the annual bonus, including amounts deferred into shares, and PSP.
These provide for incentive recovery in the event of i the discovery of a material misstatement of results, ii an error which has resulted in higher incentive payouts than would have otherwise been earned, iii a significant failure of risk management, iv regulatory censure, v in instances of individual gross misconduct discovered within five years of the end of the performance period vi or any other exceptional circumstance as determined by the Board.
A further two years may be applied following such a discovery, in order to allow for the investigation of any such event.
In order to effect any such clawback, the Committee may use a variety of methods: withhold deferred bonus shares, future PSP awards or cash bonuses, or seek to recoup cash already paid.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 85 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions Maximum Performance To incentivise and recognise PSP awards will typically be made annually The maximum PSP grant limit is Share Plan execution of the business at the discretion of the Committee, 200% of salary in respect of any strategy over the usually following the announcement financial year.
The threshold level for payment is Rewards strong financial Normally, awards will be based on a 25% for any measure.
performance over a mixture of internal financial performance sustained period.
For 2018, it is intended that awards of 150% of salary will be made to The performance targets will normally be the CEO and CFO.
Any vesting will be subject to an underpin, whereby the Committee must be satisfied i that the vesting reflects the underlying performance of the Company, ii that the business has operated within the Boards risk appetite framework and iii that individual conduct has been satisfactory.
Awards granted after 1 January 2018 will include a holding period whereby any shares earned at the end of the performance period may not be sold for a further two years, other than to pay tax.
Clawback and malus provisions apply as described in note 1 below.
Tax favoured plan under which regular Maximum permitted savings based All-employee All employees including monthly savings may be made over a on HMRC limits.
share incentive Executive Directors are three or five-year period and can be used plan encouraged to become to fund the exercise of an option, where Sharesave shareholders through the operation of an allthe exercise price is discounted by up Plan employee share plan.
Share To increase alignment Executive Directors are expected to At least 250% of salary for the CEO ownership between executives and build and maintain a minimum holding and at least 200% of salary for the guidelines shareholders.
CFO or such higher level as the Committee may determine from Executives must retain at least 50% of the time to time.
shares acquired on vesting of any share awards net of tax until the required holding is attained.
86 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued OSB operates in a heavily regulated sector, the rules of which Choice of performance measures for Executive are subject to frequent evolution.
The Committee therefore Directors awards also retains the discretion to make adjustments to payments The use of a balanced scorecard for the annual bonus reflects under this Policy as required by financial services regulations.
the balance of financial and non-financial business drivers For example, this may include increasing the proportion of across the Company.
The combination of performance bonus deferred or extending the time horizons for variable pay.
measures ties the bonus plan to both the delivery of corporate targets and strategic personal objectives.
This ensures there is Awards granted prior to the effective date an appropriate focus on the balance between financial and Any commitments entered into with Directors prior to the non-financial targets, with the scorecard composition being effective date of this Policy will be honoured.
Details of any set by the Committee from year to year depending on the such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on corporate plan.
The PSP is based on a mixture of financial measures and Remuneration Policy for other employees relative TSR, in line with our key objectives of sustained growth in earnings leading to the creation of shareholder value over The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider the long term.
TSR provides a close alignment between the Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive relative returns experienced by our shareholders and the Directors and ensures that Policies at and below the executive rewards to executives.
There are no significant differences in the overall remuneration philosophy, although There is an underpin in place on the PSP to ensure that the pay is generally more variable and linked more to the long payouts are aligned with underlying performance, financial term for those at more senior levels.
The Committees primary and non-financial risk and individual conduct.
reference point for the salary reviews for the Executive Directors is the average salary increase for the broader workforce.
In line with HMRC regulations for such schemes, the Sharesave Plan does not operate performance conditions.
A highly collegiate approach is followed in the assessment of annual bonus, with our corporate scorecard being used to How the Remuneration Committee operates the variable assess bonus outcomes throughout the organisation, with pay policy measures weighted according to role, where relevant.
The Committee operates the share plans in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is requirements where relevant.
The Committee, consistent more heavily weighted towards performance-related pay than with market practice, retains discretion over a number of for other employees.
In particular, performance-related areas relating to the operation and administration of certain long-term incentives are not provided outside of the most plans, including: senior executive population as they are reserved for those Who participates in the plans considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall The form of the award i. e. conditional share award or nil levels of performance.
cost option When to make awards and payments, how to determine the Although PSP is awarded only to the most senior managers in size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an the Group, the Company is committed to widespread equity award should vest ownership.
Accordingly, in 2014, our Sharesave Plan offer was The testing of a performance condition over a shortened launched for all employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to performance period participate in this plan on the same basis as other employees.
How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Whether a participant is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes, what proportion of an award vests at the original vesting date or whether and what proportion of an award may vest at the time of leaving How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for special dividends What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the Policy to adjust existing targets and or set different measures for the annual bonus and for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the targets are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so they can achieve their original intended purpose and provided the new targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 87 Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The chart below illustrates how the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages, as it is intended the Policy will be implemented in 2018, would vary under various performance scenarios.
Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the 1000 annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP thus 754 only fixed pay salary, benefits and pension are payable 572 2.
At on-target, half of the annual bonus is earned i. e. 75% of salary 384 500 and 25% of maximum is achieved under the LTIP i. e. 37.5% of salary 3.
At maximum full vesting is achieved under both plans i. e. 150% of salary.
0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO CFO LTIPs Share price growth and all-employee share plan participation are not considered in these scenarios.
Service contracts The terms and provisions that relate to remuneration in the Executive Directors service agreements are set out below.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Provision Policy Notice period 12 months on either side.
Termination payments A payment in lieu of notice may be made on termination to the value of their basic salary at the time of termination.
Such payments may be made in instalments and in such circumstances can be reduced to the extent that the Executive Directors mitigate their loss.
Rights to DSBP and PSP awards on termination are shown below.
The employment of each Executive Director is terminable with immediate effect without notice in certain circumstances, including gross misconduct, fraud or financial dishonesty, bankruptcy or material breach of obligations under their service agreements.
Remuneration Salary, pension and core benefits are specified in the agreements.
There is no contractual right to participate in the annual bonus plan or to receive long-term incentive awards.
Post-termination These include six-month post-termination restrictive covenants against competing with the Company: nine-month restrictive covenants against dealing with clients or suppliers of the Company: and nine-month restrictive covenants against soliciting clients, suppliers and key employees.
Contract date Andy Golding 4 June 2014, April Talintyre 19 May 2014.
Fixed pay Annual bonus 88 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Approach to recruitment and promotions Payments for loss of office The ongoing remuneration package for a new Director would On termination, other than for gross misconduct, the be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys executives will be contractually entitled to salary, pension and approved Remuneration Policy.
contractual benefits car allowance, private medical cover, life assurance and income protection over their notice period.
The On recruitment, the salary may but need not necessarily Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to be set at a lower rate, with phased increases which may be the salary for the remaining notice period.
Payments in lieu of above the average for the wider employee population as the notice may be phased and subject to mitigation.
The salary would in all cases be set to reflect the individuals experience and skills and the The Company may also pay reasonable legal costs in respect scope of the role.
The Company may compensate for remuneration foregone Annual bonus on termination upon leaving a previous employer using cash awards, the There is no automatic contractual right to bonus payments Companys share plans or awards under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 as and the default position is that the individual will not receive may be required taking into account: the quantum foregone: a payment.
The Committee may determine that an individual is a good leaver and may elect to pay a pro-rata bonus for the extent to which performance conditions apply: form of the period of employment at its discretion and based on full award: and the time left to vesting.
For all appointments, the year performance.
Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain appropriate relocation costs.
DSBP awards on termination Awards normally lapse on termination of employment.
For an internal appointment, including in the situation where However, in certain good leaver situations, awards may a Director is appointed following corporate activity, any instead vest on the normal vesting date or on cessation variable pay element awarded in respect of their prior role of employment in exceptional circumstances.
Good leaver would be allowed to pay out broadly according to its terms.
scenarios include i death: ii injury, ill-health or disability: Any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior iii retirement with the agreement of the Company: iv to appointment may continue, provided that they are put redundancy: v the employing company ceasing to be a to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
member of the Group: or vi any other circumstance the Committee determines good leaver treatment is appropriate.
Should an individual be appointed to a role executive or non-executive on an interim basis, the Company may provide PSP awards on termination additional remuneration, in line with the Policy for the specific Awards normally lapse on termination of employment.
role, for the duration the individual holds the interim role.
However, in certain good leaver situations, awards may vest on the normal vesting date and to the extent that the For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive performance conditions are met.
The Committee is, however, Director, the fee arrangement would be in accordance with permitted under the rules to allow early vesting of the award the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
to the extent it considers appropriate taking into account performance to date.
Unless the Committee determines External appointments otherwise, awards vesting in good leaver situations will be Executive Directors may accept directorships of other pro-rated for time employed during the performance period.
quoted and non-quoted companies with the consent of the Board, which will consider the time commitment required.
It is also at the discretion of the Board as to whether the Executive Director will be able to retain any fees from such an appointment.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 89 THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table sets out the Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To attract and retain a The Chairman and NonThere is no prescribed high-calibre Chairman and Executive Directors are maximum annual increase.
Non-Executive Directors by entitled to an annual fee, The Committee is guided by offering a market with supplementary fees the general increase in the competitive fee level.
payable for additional Non-Executive market but responsibilities including on occasions may need to the Chair of the Audit, recognise, for example, change Remuneration, Nomination in responsibility and or time and Risk Committees and for commitments.
acting as the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman and NonExecutive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of travel and other reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
Letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms are: Provision Policy Period of appointment Initial three-year term.
Notice periods Three months on either side.
The appointments are also terminable with immediate effect and without compensation or payment in lieu of notice if the Chairman or Non-Executive Director is not re-elected to their position as a Director of the Company by shareholders.
Payment in lieu of notice The Company is entitled to make a payment in lieu of notice on termination.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
90 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction Key matters considered by the Committee This section sets out details of the remuneration received Key issues reviewed and discussed by the Committee during by Executive and Non-Executive Directors including the the year included: Chairman in respect of the financial year ended 31 December A detailed review of the Executive Directors Remuneration 2017.
This Annual Report on Remuneration will, in conjunction Policy and investor consultation ahead of the new Policy with the Annual Statement of the Committee Chair on pages being approved at the 2018 AGM 81 to 82, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at For employees under the Committees scope: the forthcoming AGM to be held on 10 May 2018.
Where Review and approve salary increases required, data has been audited by KPMG LLP and this is Review and approve bonus awards indicated where appropriate.
Determine the grants under the Performance Share Plan Consider and approve the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Consider market trend and regulation updates.
Membership The Committee met seven times during the year.
Mary McNamara Chair, Rod Duke and Andrew Doman are Advisers to the Committee members.
Nathan Moss ceased to be a Director and member Following a tender process in 2017, Korn Ferry was appointed on 31 May 2017.
The attendance of individual Committee as independent adviser to the Committee and provided advice members, is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
on all aspects of executive remuneration including development of the new Remuneration Policy.
The total fees The Board considers each of the members of the Committee paid to Korn Ferry were 58,000. to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Korn Ferry has no other connection with the Group and therefore the Committee is satisfied that it provides objective Responsibilities and independent advice.
Korn Ferry is a member of the The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by the voluntary reference which are available on the Companys website.
code of conduct of that body, which is designed to ensure In summary, the responsibilities of the Committee include: objective and independent advice is given to remuneration Pay for employees under the Committees scope: committees.
Setting the Remuneration Policy Determine the total individual remuneration including New Bridge Street were the Committees adviser until April salary increases, bonus opportunities and outcomes and 2017 and were paid fees of 52,000.
LTIP awards Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any The Committee consults with the Chairman of the Board and payments made, are fair to the individual, and the or Chief Executive Officer CEO, as appropriate, and seeks Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty input from the Risk Committee to ensure that any to mitigate loss is fully recognised remuneration or pay scheme reflect the Companys risk Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any appetite and profile and considers current and potential performance related pay schemes operated by the future risks.
Company and approve total payments made under such schemes.
The Committee also takes input on senior executive remuneration from the Chief Financial Officer CFO and Group Employees under the Committees scope include Executive Head of Human Resources.
The Group General Counsel and Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Company Secretary Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and and all employees that are identified as Code Staff for the advises on regulatory and technical matters, ensuring that the purposes of the PRA and FCAs Dual Regulated Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference.
individual is present in discussions directly relating to their own pay.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 91 DIRECTORS PAY OUTCOMES FOR 2017 Remuneration and fees payable for 2017 audited information The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director and Non-Executive Director for the years ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
Taxable benefits received include car allowance CEO 18,000: CFO 13,000, private medical cover and life assurance.
50% of bonus is payable in cash and 50% deferred in shares for three years.
Total fees 000 2016 2017 Chairman David Weymouth from 1 September 2017 83 Mike Fairey until 10 May 2017 161 69 Non-Executive Directors Graham Allatt 73 88 Eric Anstee 72 78 Andrew Doman 26 60 Rod Duke 77 138 Tim Hanford paid to JC Flowers until 31 December 2017 60 60 Margaret Hassall 26 60 Malcolm McCaig until 31 December 2016 60 Mary McNamara 70 70 Dr David Morgan until 31 December 2016 60 Nathan Moss until 31 May 2017 60 25 Stephan Wilcke until 11 May 2016 22 Total 767 731 Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join the Company pension scheme.
Executive bonus scheme: 2017 performance against the Business Balanced Scorecard audited In 2017, the bonus plan was simplified to focus on a smaller number of KPIs derived from our Business Balanced Scorecard.
CET1 the calculation of the metric was changed during the year to align it with the externally reported metric.
Diversity based on the gender diversity of the senior leadership team.
Employee engagement the employee engagement represents the number of categories which showed improvement versus the prior year.
92 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2017 Personal performance The Executive Directors were allocated up to a maximum of 25% of their bonus based on their personal performance against agreed objectives.
The priorities for 2017 were identified in our 2016 Annual Report and objectives built around these.
Performance against the objectives for both executives was outstanding as was their overall leadership of the Bank.
The key achievements delivered by the CEO during 2017 were: Exceptional stakeholder management at all levels Driving the culture agenda evidenced by significant improvements in employee engagement Successful issuance of 60m Additional Tier 1 capital securities Oversight of delivery of 2017 risk management and modelling projects including preparation for IFRS 9 implementation and planned IRB application Delivery of improvements in IT systems including new technology solution for assessing multi-property portfolios Excellent progress in relation to the development of the OSBIndia business.
The key achievements delivered by the CFO during 2017 were: Successful issuance of 60m Additional Tier 1 capital securities including interaction with investors on debt roadshow Oversaw significant improvements in the finance control environment and HR operations Built strong relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders, regulators and the Board Further improvement in reporting and forecasting internal processes Excellent preparation for IFRS 9 implementation with parallel reporting undertaken throughout 2017 Oversaw significant recruitment activity for the Group and their successful integration into the business.
Based on this performance, the Committee agreed that 100% of the individual element of the bonus should be paid to the CEO and CFO.
Accordingly, 25% out of a possible 25% was awarded for this element.
Long-term incentive plan The first LTIP award after the IPO was granted on 18 March 2015 and was based on EPS and TSR performance conditions measured over the three financial years to 31 December 2017.
Vesting of Percentage TSR part of that part TSR element 50% of the award EPS element EPS Vesting of 50% of total of total Performance level vesting 50% of total award performance EPS part award TSR performance award Below threshold 0% Less than 12% CAGR 18% 100% Below median Above upper quartile 100% Threshold 25% 12% CAGR Median Stretch 100% 18% CAGR Upper quartile The 2015 PSP awards will therefore vest as follows: Number of Number of shares shares Total 1 Executive Directors awarded due to vest 000 Andy Golding 171,233 171,233 682 April Talintyre 121,005 121,005 482 1.
Value of shares based on a three-month average share price of 3.985 on 31 December 2017.
EXECUTIVE PAY OUTCOMES IN CONTEXT Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below sets out the percentage change in base salary, value of taxable benefits and bonus for the CEO compared with the average percentage change for employees.
For these purposes, UK employees who have been employed for over a year and therefore eligible for a salary increase have been used as a comparator group as they are the analogous population based on service and location.
Average percentage change 20162017 Taxable Annual Salary benefits bonus CEO 9.1% 38.5% 4% UK employees 7.9% 0% 4.48% Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 93 Comparison of Company performance and CEO remuneration The following table summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP pay-out as a percentage of maximum opportunity in 20132017: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Andy Golding Annual bonus as a percentage of maximum opportunity 92.5% 92.63% 93.00% 88.75% 85% LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity 100% CEO single figure of remuneration 000 518 777 848 910 1,659 Total shareholder return The table below shows the total shareholder return TSR performance of the Company over the period from listing to 31 December 2017 compared to the performance of the FTSE All Share Index.
This index is considered to be the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company is a member of this index.
300 250 200 150 100 50 31 December 2013 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 This graph shows the value, at 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in OneSavings Bank plc on admission 5 June 2014 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
OneSavings Bank plc FTSE All Share Index Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the Companys total employee remuneration including the Directors compared to distributions to shareholders and operating profit before tax for the year under review and the prior year.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit as a key financial metric used for remuneration purposes has been shown.
2016 2017 Total employee costs 29.5m 35.9m Distributions to shareholders 25.5m 31.2m Underlying profit before tax 163.1m 167.7m Total employee costs v PBT 21.5% 21.4% Average headcount 674 813 Average PBT per employee 203,264 206,273 OTHER DISCLOSURE ON 2017 EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Scheme interests awarded during the financial year The table below shows the conditional share awards made to Executive Directors in 2017 under the Performance Share Plan and the performance conditions attached to these awards: Face value of Percentage of awards award percentage Face value released for achieving End of Performance Executive of salary of award threshold targets performance period Conditions Andy Golding 130% 585,000 25% 31 December April Talintyre 100% 310,000 2019 EPS & TSR 1.
The number of shares awarded was calculated using a share price of 4.0754 the average mid-market quotation for the preceding five days before grant on 16 March 2017.
Performance conditions are i 50% TSR versus the FTSE 250 25% vesting for median performance increasing to maximum vesting for upper quartile performance : and ii 50% EPS 25% vesting for growth in EPS of 6% per annum increasing to maximum vesting for 12% per annum.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters Value rebased 94 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued All-employee share plans The Executive Directors have the following interests under the scheme: Exercise period Number of options Market price Granted Exercise 31 December exercised Date of price 2017 Beginning forfeited End of Executive grant Beginning End of period lapsed period April Talintyre 2014 1.34 4.1260 18-Jul-17 18-Jan-18 6,716 6,716 Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Total shares owned by Directors: Interest in shares Interest in share awards Shareholding requirements Without Subject to Beneficially performance performance Shareholding Current Beneficially owned conditions conditions as requirement shareholding owned at 31 December at 31 December at 31 December percentage of percentage of 2 at 1 January 2017 2017 2017 2017 basic salary basic salary Executive 1 Andy Golding 1,650,000 1,100,000 203,661 476,832 250% 1,530% Met 1 April Talintyre 579,415 336,131 139,464 311,696 200% 1,003% Met Non-Executive Graham Allatt Eric Anstee 4,960 4,960 Andrew Doman 100,499 102,437 Rod Duke 94,537 94,537 Margaret Hassall Mary McNamara 22,350 22,350 David Weymouth 13,178 1.
Includes shares in OSB Holdco Limited.
Shareholding based on the closing share price on 31 December 2017 4.1260 and year end salaries.
There were no changes to Directors interests in the Companys shares during the period 31 December 2017 to 15 March 2018.
External Board appointments Andy Golding is a Director trustee of Building Societies Trust Limited.
He receives no remuneration for this position.
Payments to departing Directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors: neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
HOW WE WILL IMPLEMENT THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS IN 2018 Base salary The CEO and CFOs salary will be increased by 3% to 504,700 and 338,460 respectively.
Benefits and pension provision will remain unchanged.
Annual bonus The performance measures for the 2018 annual bonus have been set in line with the business balanced scorecard.
For 2018 we have reduced the weighting on personal performance to 10%, with the 15% balance moved to the financial element of the Business Balanced Scorecard.
Accordingly, the balance of the metrics are as follows: Financial Customer Quality Staff Personal objectives 50% of 15% of 15% of 10% of 10% of bonus opportunity bonus opportunity bonus opportunity bonus opportunity bonus opportunity Underlying PBT Customer satisfaction Overdue management Diversity Vary by executive All-in ROE Broker satisfaction actions Employee engagement Details of objectives and Cost to income ratio Complaints Arrears performance against Net loan book growth High severity incidents these will be disclosed CET1 ratio retrospectively in next years report Performance targets are considered to be commercially sensitive so will not be published in advance.
However, there will be full disclosure of the targets set and the extent of their achievement in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 95 Subject to approval of the new Policy the maximum opportunity will be 150% of salary.
50% of any bonus earned will be deferred in shares for three years.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards of 150% of salary will be made to the Executive Directors following the 2018 AGM.
The performance conditions will continue to be partly driven by EPS 40% weighting, and TSR 40% weighting and, for the 2018 PSP award, a new return measure based on return on equity will be introduced 20% weighting to drive and reward the efficient use of capital.
This new measure will be alongside the focus on profitable growth EPS and continued stock market outperformance relative TSR vs the FTSE 250 constituents.
At the time of vesting, the Committee will assess whether the formulaic vesting outcome is aligned with the underlying performance, risk appetite and individual conduct over the period.
Following vesting, shares must be held for a further two years after selling sufficient to pay tax.
The performance targets are as follows: EPS element TSR element Return on equity Percentage of that part Performance level 40% of total award 40% of total award 20% of total award of the award vesting Below threshold Less than 6% CAGR Below median Below 20% 0% Threshold 6% CAGR Median 20% 25% Stretch 12% CAGR Upper quartile 25% 100% Pro rata vesting in between the above points Share ownership guidelines The share ownership guidelines for the CEO and CFO have been increased by 50% of salary in 2018.
The CEO is required to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to no less than 250% of salary and 200% of salary for the CFO.
50% of any vested share awards must be retained until the guideline is achieved.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The current Non-Executive Director fees are as follows: Base fees 000 Chairman 250 Non-Executive Director 60 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 10 Audit Committee Chair 20 Remuneration Committee Chair 10 Nomination Committee Chair 10 Risk Committee Chair 20 Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting Shareholders were asked to approve the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM and the Remuneration Policy was last approved at the 2015 AGM.
The votes received were: % of Votes % of Total Votes Resolution Votes for votes cast against votes cast votes cast withheld To approve the Remuneration Report 2017 AGM 193,983,897 89.65 22,383,343 10.35 216,367,240 1,256,531 To approve the Remuneration Policy 2015 AGM 216,736,072 97.21 6,231,805 2.79 222,967,877 492 Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 15 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Mary McNamara Chair of the Remuneration Committee 15 March 2018 96 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report: Other Information Share capital and rights attaching to shares Equal opportunities The Company had 243,464,688 ordinary shares of 0.01 each The Group is committed to applying its equality and diversity in issue as at 31 December 2017.
382,597 ordinary shares were policy at all stages of recruitment and selection.
Shortlisting, issued during 2017, 379,624 at a price of 1.34 and 2,973 at a interviewing and selection will always be carried out without price of 2.27.
Further details relating to share capital can be regard to gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, found in note 40. marital or civil partnership status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, age, pregnancy or Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on maternity leave or trade union membership.
Any candidate the holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share with a disability will not be excluded unless it is clear that the in the Company may be issued with such rights including candidate is unable to perform a duty that is intrinsic to the preferred, deferred or other special rights or such restrictions, role, having taken into account reasonable adjustments.
whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or Reasonable adjustments to the recruitment process will be otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary made to ensure that no applicant is disadvantaged because resolution determine or, in the absence of any such of his her disability.
Line managers conducting recruitment determination, as the Directors may determine.
interviews will ensure that the questions that they ask job applicants are not in any way discriminatory or unnecessarily Authorities to allot and pre-emption rights intrusive.
This commitment also applies to existing employees.
At the 2017 AGM, shareholders renewed the general authority for the Directors to allot up to 810,274 of the nominal value of Employee engagement ordinary shares of 0.01 each.
In addition, shareholders gave Employees are kept informed of developments within the authority for the Directors to grant rights to subscribe for, or business and in respect of their employment through a variety to convert any security into regulatory capital convertible of means, such as staff meetings, briefings and the intranet.
instruments up to 291,698 of the nominal value of ordinary Employee involvement is encouraged and views and shares equivalent to 12% of issued share capital.
suggestions are taken into account when planning new products and projects.
The Sharesave save as you earn Repurchase of shares Scheme is an all-employee share option scheme which is open The Company has an unexpired authority to repurchase to all UK-based employees.
The Sharesave Scheme allows ordinary shares up to a maximum of 24,308,209 ordinary employees to purchase options by saving a fixed amount of shares.
The Company did not repurchase any of its ordinary between 5 and 500 per month over a period of either three shares during 2017 2016: none.
or five years at the end of which the options, subject to leaver provisions, are usually exercisable.
The Sharesave Scheme has Employee share schemes been in operation since June 2014 and is granted annually, The details of the Companys employee share schemes are set with the exercise price set at a 20% discount of the share price out on pages 84 to 85 in the Remuneration Report.
Results and dividends Greenhouse gas emissions The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Profit or Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions can be Loss on page 107.
The Directors recommend the payment of found on page 55 in the Strategic report.
a final dividend of 9.3 pence per share on 16 May 2018, subject to approval at the AGM on 10 May 2018, with an ex-dividend Political donations date of 22 March 2018 and a record date of 23 March 2018.
Shareholder authority to make aggregate political donations This is in addition to the 2017 interim dividend of 3.5 pence per not exceeding 50,000 was obtained at the 2017 AGM.
Neither share paid during the year 2016: 10.5 pence total dividend.
the Company nor any of its subsidiaries made any political donations this year.
Directors interests Directors interests in the shares of the Company are set out on pages 91 and 94 in the Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors had interests in shares of the Company greater than 0.7% of the ordinary shares in issue.
There were no changes to Directors interests in shares since 31 December 2017.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 97 Notifiable interests in share capital Going concern statement At 31 December 2017, the Company had received the following The Directors have undertaken a going concern assessment notifications of major holdings of voting rights pursuant to the in accordance with Guidance on Risk Management, requirements of Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, Transparency Rules: published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
% of issued As a result of this assessment, the Directors are satisfied that No.
of ordinary share the Group and the Company have adequate resources to shares capital continue to operate as a going concern for a period in excess OSB Holdco Limited 52,447,557 21.54 of 12 months from the date of this report and have prepared Old Mutual plc 33,905,324 13.94 the financial statements on that basis.
In assessing whether Aggregate of Standard Life Aberdeen the going concern basis is appropriate, the Directors have plc 13,974,322 5.74 considered the information contained in the financial JPMorgan 13,035,838 5.36 statements, the latest business plan, profit forecasts and Norges Bank 7,267,358 2.99 the latest working capital forecasts.
These forecasts have been subject to sensitivity tests, and Since 31 December 2017, the following notifications were having reviewed the ICAAP and ILAAP, the Directors are received.
satisfied that the Group and the Company have adequate % of issued resources to continue in operational existence for a period No.
of ordinary share in excess of 12 months.
shares capital Old Mutual plc 36,560,557 15.02 Key information in respect of the Groups strategic risk OSB Holdco Limited 23,664,922 9.72 management framework, objectives and processes for Norges Bank 7,732,546 3.18 mitigating risks including liquidity risk are set out in detail on pages 34 to 48.
In addition, 133,665 financial instruments with similar economic effect, representing 0.05%, were also disclosed.
Jason Elphick Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Annual General Meeting OneSavings Bank plc Accompanying this report is the Notice of the AGM which sets Registered number: 07312896 out the resolutions to be proposed to the meeting, together 15 March 2018 with an explanation of each.
This years AGM will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard, 60 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4AG on 10 May 2018.
The meeting will start at 11am with registration from 10.30am.
