Directors' Report Remuneration Report Report on Directors remuneration Remuneration linked to transformation for growth Our revised remuneration policy aligns directors reward with business performance and delivery of our strategic priorities.
Dear Shareholders Our overall remuneration framework has a number of specific objectives.
It is designed to focus on value As the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee and creation and share ownership to align the high calibre on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my first executives who were appointed in 2014, with the Directors Remuneration Report for Serco Group plc completion of the transformation and the delivery of for 2017. the outcomes committed to shareholders.
There are This report has been drafted in compliance with multiple considerations in the design of the overall the disclosure requirements of the UK Corporate framework.
First and foremost is to ensure long Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA term shareholder value creation and the Groups Listing Rules.
This report also complies with the performance relative to sector peers.
Second, is the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large balance of short-term and long-term incentives.
Third, and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts is the recognition of the Group performance and the and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. individuals specific contribution to this, as well as the level of reward available to employees in the wider Context to the Committees decisions in the year Group.
Fourth, is to consider the precise numerical Since 2014 the business has been through a major results through the lenses of both what management transformation, with the setting of a new business have contributed to what has been achieved and to strategy, a Rights Issue, disposal of several businesses, the way this has been done, specifically ensuring the rationalisation of the portfolio and mitigation of loss individuals embody the Serco Values of Trust, Care, making contracts.
It is now a much stronger business, Innovation and Pride in the way they do business.
with a solid balance sheet and a restored reputation with customers.
Summary of key decisions for 2017 Confirmation of 2017 vesting of the 2014 Assessment of performance for the 2015 Deferred Performance Share Plan PSP elements which Bonus Plan DBP and 2015 PSP Awards with vested at nil as neither the EPS nor the relative TSR performance periods ending in FY17 and vesting minimum performance requirements were met.
Determination of vesting of Recruitment Awards Determination of awards granted in April 2017 under granted to the CEO and CFO on joining Serco.
The the PSP and DBP Matching Share Awards granted in relative TSR elements did not vest as the minimum May 2017. performance was not achieved.
The Committee Determination of nil salary increase for the CEO and assessed each Directors performance against their CFO in 2018.
Strategic Objectives and determined that, in each Completion of a further review of Directors case, that element of the award should vest in full.
Remuneration in conjunction with major shareholders.
Assessment of performance for the 2017 Annual Determination of arrangements in connection with Bonus.
It was determined that the CEO should the cessation of employment of the COO from receive a bonus of 75.0% of maximum, the CFO a 31 December 2017.
It was agreed that a bonus for bonus of 75.3% of maximum, and the COO a bonus 2017 would be paid on the normal date but that all of 73.8% of maximum.
unvested share awards would lapse in full.
110 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Linkage of variable pay outcomes to performance measured in FY17 KPI Plan 2017 performance 2017 incentive outcome 1 Trading Profit Annual Bonus 70.8m 1 Revenue Annual Bonus 2,832m 1 Free Cash Flow Annual Bonus 6.7m Relative TSR PSP Below Median Average ROIC PSP 11.9% Aggregate EPS PSP & DBP 19.53p Below Threshold Note: Between Threshold and Target 1 At constant currency.
Between Target and Max In 2017 the Executive Team delivered a trading result in line with expectations, as well as over 3bn of order intake and a further improvement in employee engagement.
The transformation of the business continues at pace and significant improvements have been delivered in efficiency and competitiveness.
There was unanimous support for the decision to make awards to reflect the contribution that each member of the executive team has made to strengthening the business and position it for success.
Rationale for the 2018 remuneration policy requiring approval at the 2018 AGM At the 2017 AGM, shareholders overwhelmingly strengthen alignment with the business strategy supported the renewal of the current policy for a single through the balance of short and long term reward year with a view to the Remuneration Committee and the choice of performance measures: and undertaking a further review of policy during 2017. simplify our remuneration arrangements to one longThis allowed the new policy presented here to be term incentive plan.
aligned to the requirements of the third phase of our strategy implementation which begins in 2018.
This reduction in maximum earnings opportunity is being made against the context of the fourth consecutive year In undertaking the review the Committee took into consideration what was appropriate for the business of no change to base pay for the CEO or CFO.
With the COO role not being replaced and the additional as we move into the enabling growth phase of the business transformation, as well as considering responsibility being taken on at Executive Director level by the CEO and CFO, the overall result is a significant feedback from investors, best practice and market practice, and the key principles of good corporate reduction in total cost of Executive Director pay.
Serco is fortunate to have not only a high calibre Executive team governance.
Our aim was to ensure remuneration remains aligned with our key corporate goals and but also one which understands the context in which we operate and therefore support the changes.
shareholders expectations, and that it motivates and compensates senior management fairly for their PSP awards to be granted from 2018 onwards will contribution to thebusiness.
maintain the emphasis on the achievement of financial metrics but permit up to 25% of the PSP to be linked As a result of the review, and following consultation with our major shareholders, the Committee has made a to key non-financial, strategic, KPIs that are clearly aligned to our strategy and are crucial to the delivery of number of changes to the remuneration framework.
These KPIs will represent core areas The removal of the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Share where achievement can be tested and evidence-based.
Matching Plan and revisions to the suite of performance For 2018, the first year of operation, the Committee conditions for PSP awards will: has concluded that a weighting of 15% for strategic measures and 85% for financial measures is appropriate.
more closely align executive remuneration with A higher weighting of up to 25% may apply in future that for sector peers by significantly reducing the years of operation.
overall quantum for variable pay from 500% to 375% maximum opportunity for the CEO, with a similar The introduction of mandatory three year deferral into reduction for the CFO : shares of all bonus earned above 100% of salary with deliver a reduction of 20% in total maximum pay no matched opportunity further reinforces the link between reward and sustained long-term performance.
opportunity for the CEO and 19% for the CFO: In line with the policy approved at the 2017 AGM, under the 2018 remuneration policy all elements of variable pay are subject to clawback provisions.
111 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Rationale for the 2018 remuneration policy requiring approval at the 2018 AGM continued Finally, to ensure continued good governance of remuneration, we will introduce further best practice measures, including the reduction of maximum pension contributions to 20% of salary for new Executive Directors.
Much thought was given to the balance of focus on short and long term delivery which are equally important to the Groups future success.
A small increase in maximum opportunity under the short term incentive, combined with the introduction with mandatory deferral into shares for a further three years of any bonus earned over 100% of salary, strengthens the link between reward and achieving critical targets in the short term whilst maintaining a focus on longer term, sustainable, growth.
The simplified pay structure Vests subject to three year Performance EPS, ROIC, TSR and Strategic Share Plan Objectives conditions.
Two year post-vest holding period.
Compulsory Over 100% of salary mandatorily bonus deferral deferred in shares for three years Up to 100% of salary Annual bonus paid in cash immediately Chart is illustrative and is not to scale.
Details of executive Base salary director remuneration packages are on page 119.
The full Policy for approval at the 2018 AGM is on pages 120 to 129.
Year 1 2 3 4 5 How our simplified variable pay structure aligns to the core KPIs for 2018 Core KPIs Financial Non-financial Annual bonus PSP Trading Profit Revenue Free Cash Flow In-year non-financial objectives Relative TSR Average ROIC Aggregate EPS Growth-aligned strategic objectives Shareholders approval is requested for the revised Remuneration Policy.
Concluding comments On behalf of my colleagues on the Committee, we appreciate the input we have received from shareholders and representatives of institutional investors, whose comments have shaped the refresh of our Policy.
The Committee believe that the recommended changes will ensure our arrangements are appropriate given the context in which Serco operates as a trusted partner of government: that our highly effective executive management team are rewarded for completing the transformation and are incentivised to move forward to restoring growth, margins and returns of the business.
On behalf of the Board Lynne Peacock Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 February 2018 112 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements The Remuneration Committee The role of the Committee is to determine and recommend to the Board a fair and responsible remuneration framework for ensuring that the executive management team are rewarded and incentivised appropriately for their contribution to Group performance.
The Committees primary focus is to ensure a clear link between reward and performance.
This means ensuring that the policy, structure and levels of remuneration for Executive Directors reinforce the strategic aims of the business and are appropriate given the market context in which Serco operates.
The Committees composition, responsibilities and operation comply with the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the Listing Rules and with the Companies Act 2006.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee, a copy of which can be found on the Groups website at www.
com about , are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The Committee conducted an annual assessment of its own performance in accordance with the annual effectiveness review of the Board.
Following that review, the Committee concluded that it is fully effective in respect of its Executive and Chairman Remuneration duties with consideration being given as to how it may widen the scope to include a greater understanding of employee benefits and to further collate employee views around pay and benefits at Serco.
Members of the Committee and attendees All members of the Committee are independent.
Non-Executive Directors of the Group are initially appointed for a three-year term, and that appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
2017 Scheduled Committee Meetings Attendance eligibility Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 Angie Risley 4 4 2 Lynne Peacock 3 3 Committee Members 3 Sir Roy Gardner 3 5 4 Mike Clasper 2 4 5 John Rishton 5 5 6 Kirsty Bashforth 1 1 Notes: 1 Angie Risley resigned from the Board on 15 September 2017.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 14 May 2012 15 September 2017.
2 Lynne Peacock joined the Committee on 1 July 2017.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 15 September 2017.
3 Sir Roy Gardner has been a Member of the Committee since 1 June 2015.
He was unable to attend the September 2017 and December 2017 Committee Meetings due to unavoidable scheduling conflicts.
4 Mike Clasper was a Member of the Committee from 1 August 2016 until 4 December 2017.
Mike was unable to attend the May 2017 and September 2017 Committee Meetings due to unavoidable scheduling conflicts.
5 John Rishton has been a Member of the Committee since 13 September 2016.
6 Kirsty Bashforth has been a Member of the Committee since 15 September 2017.
Remuneration Committee attendees during the year Position Comments Rupert Soames CEO Attended by invitation Angus Cockburn CFO Attended by invitation Geoff Lloyd until August 2017 Group HR Director Attends as an executive responsible for Anthony Kirby from October 2017 advising on the People Strategy Tara Gonzalez Group Reward Director Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the Remuneration Policy David Eveleigh Group General Counsel Attends as the secretary to the Committee & Company Secretary Elaine Richardson until May 2017 Deputy Company Secretary Attends as the secretary to the Committee Chandrika Kher from May 2017  LLP External advisor to the Attends as the independent advisors Remuneration Committee to the Committee No person is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration arrangements.
113 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Summary of the Committees activities during the financial year Meeting Regular items Ad hoc items February Considered feedback from the shareholder consultation on the Considered accelerated vesting of 2016 Policy Review: considered base pay of Executive Directors PSP awards for death in service case: and members of the Executive Committee: considered considered Executive Committee terms previous years performance against targets and confirmation and conditions for new hires: reviewed of any bonus payable: review of achievement of performance wider employee arrangements and conditions for the LTI vesting in respect of awards granted in conditions across the Group.
2014: set performance targets and objectives for 2017: review the draft of the 2016 Remuneration Report.
May Considered administrative changes to the PSP Rules and the Updates on Executive Committee Share Dealing Code: considered basis for the Policy Review to appointments and exits.
inform the revised Remuneration Policy: considered AGM voting outcomes: reviewed the achievement of performance conditions for the Recruitment Awards granted in 2014.
August Considered the 2017 Policy Review and recommendations for a new Remuneration Policy.
September Considered proposals for the revised Remuneration Policy: Considered amendments to the taxable reviewed the achievement of performance conditions for the benefits received by NEDs.
Recruitment Awards granted in 2014: considered the reporting requirement of the UK Gender Pay Gap regulations.
December Reviewed proposed approach to structure of the Remuneration Considered feedback from major Report: reviewed its own Terms of Reference which were shareholders and investor advisory amended to reflect the UK Corporate Governance Code and bodies regarding proposed changes to the ICSA guidance note for effective remuneration committees: the Remuneration Policy.
reviewed the Committees annual programme of work.
Considered the detail of reporting under the UK Gender Pay Gap regulations.
Considered the cessation of employment arrangements for COO Ed Casey.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee has been advised during the year by  LLP PwC.
PwC were selected as advisers to the Committee through a competitive tendering process in 2012 and no conflicts of interest were identified.
PwC have provided advice throughout the year mainly around the following key executive reward areas: advice on the review of the Remuneration Policy: support in reviewing the Directors' Remuneration Report: informing the Committee on market practice and governance issues: and assistance with general and technical reward queries.
The advisers attended each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Consulting services have also been provided to the Group by PwC in relation to the 2017 Policy Review and pay and benefits data.
Fees paid to PwC as advisers to the Committee during the year totalled 69,100.
Fees are charged on an hourly rate basis.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which oversees the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee considers the views of the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the other members of the Executive Committee.
114 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements At a glance: implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 The following charts illustrate the value that may be delivered to the Executive Directors under different performance scenarios for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Also shown, for comparison, is the actual value delivered in the year ended 31 December 2017 excluding the value received from Recruitment Awards vesting in the year along with a comparison of the value that could have been delivered under the previous policy.
Rupert Soames '000s 2018 Policy Previous Policy 6,000 5,388 5,000 4,326 4,000 55% 3,646 39% 2,944 3,000 2,732 43% 40% 31% 2,000 35% 24% 26% 27% 22% 1,138 1,138 1,000 100% 42% 26% 100% 38% 21% 31% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Actual Single Figure 2017 Fixed elements of remuneration Annual variable Multiple period variable Angus Cockburn '000s 2018 Policy Previous Policy 3,500 2,863 3,000 2,500 2,338 53% 2,000 37% 1,613 1,618 1,513 1,500 27% 29% 37% 33% 23% 1,000 30% 26% 688 688 20% 500 100% 45% 30% 100% 43% 24% 42% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Actual Single Figure 2017 Fixed elements of remuneration Annual variable Multiple period variable The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Fixed elements of remuneration Base salary as applicable from 1 April 2018 Estimated value of benefits to be provided in 2018 in line with the Remuneration Policy based on the value of actual benefits provided in 2017 Pension contribution cash supplement equal to 30% of salary Annual bonus and Performance Share Plan participation as set out in the Policy table.
In all cases, Target performance results in delivery of 50% of maximum opportunity.
The Performance Share Plan values reflect the face value at grant of shares that could be received for target and maximum performance.
115 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 Executive Directors Element CEO Rupert Soames CFO Angus Cockburn Base salary from 850,000 500,000 1 April 2018 Pension 30% of salary 30% of salary Annual bonus Max.
155% of salary On-target 87.5% of salary On-target 77.5% of salary Compulsory three year deferral into Serco shares of bonus over 100% of salary Annual bonus 28% Trading Profit 28% Cash Flow 14% Revenue 30% in year Non-financial objectives 1 measures 70% financial 30% non-financial Performance Maximum 200% of salary Maximum 175% of salary Share Plan PSP 2 PSP measures Awards granted under the PSP in 2018 will be subject to Group performance over a three year period ending 31 December 2020: Assessed over the three year For 2018, 85% of the award will be based on financial measures split equally between: performance period Aggregate EPS Statutory Earnings Per Share EPS before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis, measured as an aggregate over the performance period.
Relative TSR Total Shareholder Return TSR when ranked relative to companies in the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts.
Average ROIC Pre-tax Return on Invested Capital ROIC, measured as an average over the performance period.
For 2018, the remaining 15% will be based on Strategic Objectives.
Performance targets for the awards granted in 2018 will be based on improvements in order book and employee engagement, which are critical to delivering the business strategy over the next three years.
For 2018, the first year of operation of strategic objectives within the PSP, the Committee has concluded that a weighting of 15% for strategic measures and 85% for financial measures is an appropriate balance.
Holding Vested shares from the PSP must be held for two years post vesting requirement after payment of tax.
Shareholding 200% of salary 150% of salary guideline Malus and Malus provisions and clawback provisions apply to PSP awards during the clawback three-year performance period prior to vesting and the two-year post-vesting holding period respectively.
Clawback provisions will apply to the annual bonus plan.
Notes: 1 The Committee deems the specific details of the performance measures and targets to be commercially sensitive as they are intrinsically linked to the forward-looking strategic plans of the business.
Full disclosure will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which final performance is assessed provided these details are no longer considered sensitive.
2 The Committee sets the performance targets in respect of the PSP immediately prior to the grant of the award and therefore these are not yet determined.
Details of the performance targets will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which the awards are made to the extent that they are not deemed commercially sensitive at that time.
Full retrospective disclosure will be made of any details that are withheld once this information is no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Committee.
116 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 Non-Executive Directors Base fee to apply from Base fee 1 April 2018 1 April 2017 Percentage Role change Element Annual Board and Committee fees Chairman 250,000 250,000 No change Senior Independent Director 25,000 25,000 No change Board fees 50,000 50,000 No change Audit Committee Chairmanship 12,500 12,500 No change Audit Committee Membership 5,000 5,000 No change 1 Corporate Responsibility Committee Membership 5,000 N A New fees Group Risk Committee Chairmanship 15,000 15,000 No change Group Risk Committee Membership 8,000 8,000 No change Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 10,000 10,000 No change Remuneration Committee Membership 5,000 5,000 No change Element travel allowance Allowance for travel to international meetings 5,000 5,000 No change Note: 1 In line with the Policy approved at the 2017 AGM, a fee of 5,000 per annum will be introduced for Membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee to apply from 1 April 2018.
No additional fee is payable for Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, or for the Chair or Membership of the Nomination Committee.
In addition, in 2017 no fees were payable for Membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
117 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy For approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy will take legal effect from the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
As set out in the Chairs Letter, as we move into the enabling growth phase of the business transformation the Committee has undertaken a complete review of Directors remuneration with a view to ensuring that the Remuneration Policy is aligned to the strategic requirements of the business going forward.
The Remuneration Policy review also sought to simplify the overall remuneration of Directors and to address concerns from some shareholders in connection with the long term incentive arrangements in particular.
In the tables and narrative below, we have set out details of each element that may comprise the remuneration package of a Director, what the opportunity is under that element, and how each element supports the business and aligns the interests of the Directors with the wider stakeholders, including shareholders, in the Company.
The approved Directors Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2017 AGM is displayed on the Companys website, in the investor area.
The provisions in the Directors Remuneration Policy as approved at the AGM in 2017 that relate to the Deferred Bonus Plan will continue to apply to all awards made under this plan prior to the approval of the new Policy at the AGM in 2018.
Remuneration Policy Sercos Remuneration Policy supports the achievement of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
Sercos approach to executive remuneration is designed to: Support Sercos long-term future growth, strategy and values: Align the financial interests of executives and shareholders: Provide market-competitive reward opportunities for performance in line with expectations and deliver significant financial rewards for sustained out-performance: Enable Serco to recruit and retain the best executives with the required skills and experience in all our chosen markets: and Be based on a clear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand and support.
We approach Executive Directors remuneration on a total reward basis to provide the Remuneration Committee with a view of total remuneration rather than just the competitiveness of the individual elements.
Analysis is conducted by looking at each of the different elements of remuneration including salary, annual bonus, performance share plan and pension in this context.
This ensures that in applying the Remuneration Policy executive pay is sufficient to achieve the goals of the Remuneration Policy without paying more than is necessary.
The balance of fixed to variable pay also ensures that significant reward is only delivered for exceptional performance.
This remuneration framework is echoed throughout the organisation with the approach to pay for the wider workforce reflecting these core principles.
118 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Features of the 2018 Remuneration Policy The remuneration package for Executive Directors continues to consist of base salary, annual bonus, a longterm share-based incentive, pension and other benefits.
The Groups policy remains to ensure that a significant proportion of the package is related to performance, with the relevant performance measures aligned to the core requirements of the Groups forward-looking strategy.
As set out in the Chairs Letter, changes have been made to ensure alignment with the Groups strategy as we enter the enabling growth phase of the transformation: to address areas of concern and deviations to current accepted remuneration practice: and to ensure the new policy is fit for the future success of the business.
A summary of the changes to the 2017 Policy as approved at the 2017 AGM is set out below: Element in 2017 Executive Directors Policy Changes made for 2018 Base Salary No change but we have restated the purpose and operation of this element for clarity.
Annual Bonus Changes made to the maximum opportunity under this element and to introduce the compulsory deferral into shares of bonus earned over 100% of salary: CEO increased from 150% of salary to 175% CFO increased from 130% of salary to 155% of salary The performance framework has been restated for clarity.
Deferred Bonus Plan This element is no longer part of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
This results in a reduction in the total variable pay opportunity of 125% of salary for the CEO with a similar reduction for the CFO.
The provisions of this element will continue to apply to Executive Directors in respect of awards granted under this plan prior to approval of the 2018 Policy only the last of which is anticipated to vest in May 2021.
Performance Formally rebalance the performance measures and introduction of Strategic Share Plan Objectives to the suite of performance measures enabling a more holistic approach to ensuring reward is fully aligned to Company performance.
Awards granted in 2018 will vest based on 85% equally weighted between TSR, EPS, ROIC and 15% on Strategic Objectives.
The operation and other aspects of the performance framework have been restated for clarity.
Pension Reduction in the maximum opportunity for new Executive Directors' from a maximum of 30% of salary to 20% of salary and clarification of the operation of this element.
Element in 2017 Non-Executive Directors Policy Changes made for 2018 Fees No change.
Benefits and expenses No change.
119 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Future policy table Executive Directors For the avoidance of doubt it is intended that the new Directors Remuneration Policy will apply in its entirety to all payments made to Directors from the date of shareholder approval.
The following table sets out the proposed Executive Director Remuneration Policy to apply for three years following shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
The 2018 Policy for Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 128 and the table set out on page 124 provides further information of how pay policies are set for the broader employee population.
How the element supports Performance our strategic objectives Operation Opportunity framework Base Salary Whilst there is no prescribed, Review takes To recognise an individuals Pay levels are designed to attract and experience, responsibility retain experienced, skilled executives formulaic maximum, over the account of individual policy period, base salaries for performance and and performance of the role, reflecting the skills and role of and by providing the basis for the individual.
Executive Directors will be set contribution to the at an appropriate level within Company during a competitive remuneration Base salaries are set by package: to help recruit the peer group and will normally theyear.
reference to: increase at no more than the and retain executives of the necessary calibre to execute greater of inflation and salary the relevant experience and time in increases made to the general Sercos strategic objectives.
role of the individual: workforce in the jurisdiction the individual performance: Executive Director is based in.
compensation of similarly situated Higher increases may be made executives of companies in an in exceptional circumstances.
appropriate peer group: and Such cases would include the wider economic environment.
where there has been a significant change in role size or In some circumstances an executive complexity which has resulted may start on a lower salary than would in the salary falling below a be competitive in the market, with a market competitive level given phased increase applying depending on the enhanced responsibilities of performance in role and individual ability.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually and any changes are usually effective from 1 April.
Salary reviews take account of the individuals performance and contribution to the Company during the year.
Benefits To provide a competitive A range of benefits may be provided to The maximum opportunity for None level of benefits.
These include, but benefits is defined by the nature are not limited to, company car or car of the benefits and the cost of allowance, private medical insurance, providing them.
As the cost of permanent healthcare insurance, life providing such benefits varies cover, annual allowance for independent based on market rates and financial advice, and voluntary health other factors, there is no formal checks every two years.
Relocation benefits will be provided in a manner that reflects individual circumstances and Sercos relocation benefits policy.
For example, relocation benefits could include temporary accommodation for the executive and dependents, education costs for dependents and tax equalisation.
Benefits are reviewed annually against market practice and are designed to be competitive.
120 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements How the element supports our strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance framework Annual Bonus Incentivise Executives The Committee sets objectives Maximum bonus Performance is assessed annually.
to achieve specific, and their weightings at the start opportunity is 175% Both financial and non-financial predetermined goals that of each performance year.
The of salary for CEO measures are used, with a weighting are aligned to the business annual performance measures and and 155% of salary of no less than 70% financial.
strategy during a one-year objectives are determined with for other Directors.
Financial measures are based on period.
reference to the Groups overall This represents the Companys Key Performance strategy and annual business plan the maximum Compulsory deferral into Indicators KPIs for the year such as and priorities for the year.
At the bonus payable for shares increases alignment Trade Profit, Cash Flow and Revenue end of the performance year the exceptional stretch of the short term incentive and take into consideration analyst bonus result is determined by the performance.
consensus and the Companys Committee based on performance forecasts.
Non-financial measures against the objectives and targets Reward ongoing stewardship are based on personal performance set.
and contribution to core against key strategic objectives for values.
Annual bonuses are paid after the that year.
end of the financial year to which they Given the direct link of the relate.
There is compulsory deferral performance measures and targets into shares vesting after three years to the Groups strategic plan, the of any bonus earned over 100% of details of these are deemed by the salary.
The Committee has discretion Committee to be commercially to permit a dividend equivalent to sensitive and therefore are not accrue during the vesting period.
disclosed in advance to shareholders.
Dividend equivalents are delivered to However, the Committee commits participants in the form of additional to full retrospective disclosure of shares or cash to the extent that the the performance measures, targets award vests.
and achievement of those targets Awards made to Executive Directors following the end of the performance are subject to malus and clawback period and to the extent that this provisions.
Further details are given information is no longer commercially below.
sensitive in respect of the nonfinancial strategic objectives.
Awards for on-target performance are 50% of the maximum opportunity.
At minimum threshold performance the award that may be received is 0% of the maximum opportunity.
All bonus payments are ultimately at the discretion of the Committee, taking into consideration the Directors personal contribution to business performance over the relevant year and leadership behaviours demonstrated in making that contribution.
Performance conditions do not apply to the deferred element.
121 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued How the element supports our strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance framework Performance Share Plan PSP Recognises achievement Awards under the PSP are Maximum Performance measures and weightings will be set by the against the longer term usually made in the form annual award Committee at the start of the three year performance period objectives linked to of nominal cost options or of up to 200% on the basis of the Groups strategic plan.
At least 75% of the Groups strategy conditional share awards, of base salary the vesting of the LTIP is dependent on two or more financial and aligns incentives but may also take the for the CEO performance conditions chosen from: with shareholder value form of nil-cost options or and 175% EPS creation.
Awards are normally ROIC granted on an annual basis.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to introduce However, the Committee additional financial measures aligned to the Groups strategy.
will consider awards under the PSP twice a year.
In addition, up to 25% of the LTIP vesting maybe based on the achievement of strategic measures.
The Remuneration Awards will be subject to Committee has discretion to restrict the vesting against the performance conditions.
non-financial element if, on assessment of the Companys Awards are typically performance as a whole including the financial performance, the settled in Ordinary Shares formulaic outcome of the non-financial measures is not reflective however, at the discretion of this.
of the Board awards may EPS for these purposes is EPS before exceptionals and is an be converted to a cash important measure of shareholder value which can also be equivalent based on the influenced by executive decision-making.
EPS targets are set value of the shares at the in reference to analyst forecasts and Group business plans.
vesting date in cases The Committee takes care to ensure that specific EPS targets where due to local law it are suitably stretching.
is not possible to deliver shares, or subject to Relative TSR reflects our performance relative to other net settlement.
companies in which investors could choose to invest.
Relative TSR performance is measured against the constituents of the The Committee has FTSE 250 as at the date of grant.
As Serco is a constituent discretion to permit a of the FTSE 250 it is felt that comparisons to the TSR dividend equivalent performance of other companies in this index provides a to accrue during the good measure of the relative performance of Serco.
Dividend Maintaining an attractive return on capital is core to our equivalents are delivered business strategy therefore ROIC is included in the suite of to participants in the form financial measures for the PSP.
Pre-tax ROIC targets are set in of additional shares or reference to analyst forecasts for cash flow and trade profit, cash to the extent that the and Group business plans, and are inclusive of joint ventures award vests.
to more closely align management with shareholders.
Shares are subject to a Strategic Objectives must be measurable and capable of two year post vesting objective assessment.
Strategic Objectives will be aligned to holding period.
During the achievement of key milestones in the implementation of this time the shares must the Groups strategy.
The specific Strategic Objectives will be be retained but are not disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration following subject to forfeiture the grant of an award but, due to the direct link of the provisions.
Shares may performance measures and targets to the Groups strategic be sold in order to satisfy plan, the details of these are deemed by the Committee to tax or other liabilities as a be commercially sensitive and therefore are not disclosed in result of the vesting of the advance to shareholders.
However, the Committee commits award.
to full retrospective disclosure of the performance measures, targets and achievement of those targets following the end Awards made to Executive Directors are subject of the relevant performance period and to the extent that this information is no longer commercially sensitive.
to malus and clawback provisions.
Further details 25% of the award vests for threshold performance rising on a are given below.
straight-line basis to full vesting for maximum performance.
The Committee with input from the Audit and Group Risk Committees as appropriate considers Sercos underlying performance and external market reference points as well as performance against the specific targets set in determining the overall outcome of the PSP.
122 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements How the element supports our strategic Performance objectives Operation Opportunity framework Pension To provide pension related Executive Directors may participate in the Employer pension contributions or None benefits to encourage Group defined contribution pension plan or the equivalent and or combined executives to build savings overseas Serco pension plan as appropriate.
with a cash supplement of up to 30% for retirement.
Employer contributions are reviewed against local market practices annually.
The maximum employer pension contribution or the equivalent, and Executive Directors may choose to receive or combined with a cash supplement, some or all of their employer pension for new Executive Directors will be up contribution in cash to invest as they see fit.
Shareholding Guideline To support long-term The Committee reviews the shareholding The shareholding guidelines are None commitment to the guideline with the Policy review to ensure 200% of salary for the CEO, and Company and the alignment the guidelines remain in line with market 150% of salary for other Executive of employee interests with and best practice.
Unvested awards that are subject to The Committee has the discretion to performance conditions are not taken increase the shareholding guideline into account in determining an Executive of the Executive Directors.
Directors shareholding for these purposes.
Share price is measured as at end of the relevant financial year.
Executives are required to retain in shares 50% of the net value of any performance shares vesting or options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding guideline.
Malus and clawback Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards under the annual bonus and PSP.
Under the Policy, the Committee, at its discretion, may reduce or cancel malus or recover some or all of awards granted to Executive Directors in certain circumstances.
Under the malus provisions the Committee may reduce or prevent vesting of an unvested Deferred Bonus or PSP award in circumstances including but not limited to: material misstatement of the Groups audited financial results: material or misleading results announcement prior to vesting: or a clear and material contravention of the Companys ethics and values on the part of the participant or a team member, team, business area or profit centre for which the participant is responsible.
In the most serious of these circumstances the Committee may also invoke the clawback provisions against vested awards under the PSP and annual bonus.
The clawback must be implemented within five years of the grant of the relevant PSP award, and within two years in respect of bonus awards paid in cash, and five years from the grant date for the portion of the bonus delivered in shares.
Use of discretion The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP according to their respective rules, as approved by shareholders, and in accordance with the Listing Rules, where applicable.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of areas with regard to the operation and administration of these plans.
123 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Use of discretion continued These include, but are not limited to: the participants: the timing of grant of an award: the vehicle of an award: the size of an award: the determination of vesting or bonus payment: discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and determining the performance measures for the awards granted from year to year.
In relation to the PSP and annual bonus plan, the Committee retains the ability, in exceptional circumstances, to change performance measures, targets and or the relative weighting of performance measures part-way through a performance period if there is a significant event such as a major transaction or, in the case of the bonus only, a transition in role which causes the Committee to believe the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
In exercising this discretion the Committee will determine that the original conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee also has discretion to vary the proportion of awards that vest, to ensure that the outcomes are fair and appropriate and reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Remuneration Policy described here applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Group.
The Committee believes that the structure of management reward at Serco should be linked to Sercos strategy and performance.
The table below explains how this philosophy has been cascaded below Executive Directors to achieve alignment with the remuneration strategy across the organisation.
Element Difference in Remuneration Policy for other employees Base salary The same principles and considerations that are applied to Executive Directors are, as far as possible, applied to all employees.
Benefits Serco has provisions for market-aligned benefits for all employees.
Pension The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Individuals who exceed certain pension tax allowances may be offered cash allowances in lieu of pension benefits.
Annual bonus Approximately 1,300 employees, including members of the Global Leadership Team, are eligible for a bonus award under Serco Bonus Plan.
Performance Share Plan PSP Annual awards under the PSP are made to approximately 370 employees in the Global Leadership Team.
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the general base salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors.
124 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Consideration of shareholder views As set out in the Chairs letter, we have consulted with our largest shareholders and received support and helpful comments which have been taken into consideration in shaping the future policy presented to you here.
The Committee believe it is important to continue to maintain effective channels of communication with our shareholders.
The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously and these views have been influential in shaping our policy and practice.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Our overarching remuneration principles continue to apply in recruiting new hires or promotions to the Board that is that we seek to offer a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate while aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
We take into account that, as a global business, Serco operates in diverse markets and geographies and many of its competitors for talent are outside the UK.
When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee aligns the remuneration package on recruitment with the above Remuneration Policy incorporating all elements as set out above.
Base salary is set by the Committee taking into account all factors it considers relevant, including the Executives experience and calibre, current total remuneration, levels of remuneration for companies in the Committees chosen peer group, and the remuneration required to attract the best candidate for Serco.
The Committee will seek to ensure that the arrangement is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
New promotes or recruits to the Board may on occasion have their salaries set below the targeted policy level while they become established in their role.
In such cases, salary increases may be higher than inflation or the general UK workforce increase until the targeted market positioning is achieved.
The recruitment policy also includes the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation in line with Serco policies as may be required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
The policy for recruitment also includes benefits that are either not significant in value or are required by legislation.
Any new Executive Director would be offered either a pension contribution and or a pension allowance equal to up to 20% of base salary.
As summarised below, the Remuneration Policy provides for a maximum combined total incentive under bonus and PSP of 375% of salary in any one year.
Element of remuneration Maximum percentage of salary Maximum variable pay: 375% Normally comprising: Annual bonus 175% PSP 200% Note: 1 Maximum percentage of salary for annual bonus and PSP excludes compensation for awards forfeited.
This is the maximum level of incentives excluding any to compensate for entitlements forfeited that will apply to new recruits.
Different performance conditions may apply for new recruits from those set out in the Policy, depending on the particular circumstances at the time which could, for example, include the appointment of an interim Executive Director.
Where it is necessary to compensate a candidate for entitlements and or unvested long term incentive awards from an existing employer that are forfeited, the Committee will seek to match the quantum, structure and timeframe of the award with that of the awards forfeited.
In determining the form and quantum of replacement awards, the Committee will consider whether existing awards are still subject to performance requirements, and the extent to which those are likely to be met, with the aim of providing an opportunity of broadly equivalent value.
The principle will be to seek to replace awards that remain significantly at risk for performance at the candidates current employer with awards subject to performance at Serco, and to seek to make any other replacement awards in the form of Serco shares, subject to appropriate vesting or holding requirements.
Any compensation for awards forfeited is not taken into account in determining the maximum incentive award level.
125 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration continued Where a new Executive Director is an internal promotion, the Committee has discretion to allow the new Executive Director to continue to benefit from existing awards granted, or benefit entitlements such as pension, that were in place prior to appointment to the Board.
The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the same remuneration elements as for the existing Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee will include in future Annual Reports on Remuneration details of the implementation of the recruitment policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
Service contracts and loss of office payments The policy for service contracts for new Directors is shown in the table below.
Under this policy the Committee may at any time, with the agreement of a Director, alter aspects of their existing contracts so that they are in line with the policy for new Directors.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be adjusted from year to year.
The date of appointment for each Director is shown in the table on page 129.
Provision for Executive Directors Detailed terms Notice period 12 months notice from the Company 12 months notice from the Director Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice comprising: Base salary Pension allowance Selected benefits All of the above would be paid in instalments in accordance with the Directors contractual payment schedule, subject to an obligation on the part of the Director to mitigate his loss.
Payments will either reduce or cease completely, in the event that the Director gains new employment remuneration.
In the event of a compromise or severance agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees incurred by the Director in connection with such agreements and reasonable payments in respect of restrictive undertakings.
The Committee may agree that if a Director steps down from the Board then for a transitional period, notice including payment in lieu of notice would continue to be based on the equivalent of up to twelve months based on their rate of salary and benefits while a Director, payable in instalments and subject tomitigation.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee.
126 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Provision for Executive Directors Detailed terms Treatment of annual No payment unless employed on date of payment of bonus except for good bonus on termination leavers: defined as death, disability, redundancy and other circumstances at the Committees discretion.
Good leavers are entitled to a bonus pro-rated to the period of service during the year, subject to the outcome of the performance metrics and paid at the usual time unless in exceptional circumstances e. g. in the case of death of the Executive when the Committee determines to make the payment early.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of a good leaver in line with performance and the circumstances of the termination.
For new Executive Directors unvested deferred bonus share awards will lapse on cessation of employment except for good leavers.
Bad leaver provisions will not apply to the existing Executive Directors in respect of unvested deferred bonus share awards on cessation of employment except in the event of termination relating to misstatement of results, misconduct or poor performance.
Treatment of unvested All awards lapse except for good leavers: ill-health, injury or disability, death, awards granted under redundancy, retirement, change of control as defined in the plan rules and other 1 the PSP circumstances at the Committees discretion to the extent that they allow good leaver treatment for particular awards.
For good leavers vesting is pro-rated on a time basis and is dependent on the achieved performance over the performance period.
Awards vest on the normal vesting date except in the case of the death of the participant when the Committee may accelerated the vesting to the date of death.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the level of vesting to reflect the individual performance, and may, depending on the circumstances of the departure, allow some awards to vest while lapsing others.
Change of control Where the Director leaves the Company following a change of control, whether or not he is dismissed or he elects to leave on notice, he will be entitled to receive a payment equivalent to up to one years remuneration.
Bonuses may be paid on a pro-rata basis measured on performance up to the date of change of control.
Unvested PSP awards and unvested share awards in respect of deferred annual bonus vest pro-rata for time and performance up to the date of change of control.
For existing Executive Directors the unvested share awards in respect of deferred annual bonus will vest without time pro-rating.
Exercise of discretion Intended only to be used to prevent an outcome that is not consistent with performance.
The Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
Notes: 1 Whilst unvested awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its absolute discretion allow for awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
In such circumstances, awards vesting will normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied by the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued participation is justified, for example, by reference to past performance to the date of leaving, or by the requirement to achieve an orderly transition.
The clawback provisions would continue to apply in the event that such discretion were exercised.
127 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and loss of office payments continued Provision for NEDs Detailed terms Letters of appointment Appointed for initial three-year term.
Appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Loss of office policy No compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors How the element supports Performance our strategic objectives Operation Opportunity framework Over the policy period, Non-Executive Fees The fees of the Chairman are base fees for current NonDirector fees are determined and approved by To attract Non-Executive Executive Directors will be not performancethe Remuneration Committee Directors with the set at an appropriate level related.
excluding the Chairman and fees necessary experience within the peer group and of the Non-Executive Directors, are and ability to make a increases will typically determined and approved by the substantial contribution be broadly in line with Board as a whole.
The Chairman receives a base fee.
The base fees or fees for The following fees are paid to specific Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors in Directors roles may be addition to their base fee: reviewed at any time based on the anticipated Senior Independent responsibility and time Directorfee.
Current fee levels are Committee Membership fee.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis against a relevant peer group and taking into consideration market practice.
Benefits and expenses An allowance is payable to The maximum travel N A Directors for attendance at allowance is 5,000 per meetings outside their country occasion requiring interof residence where such meetings continental travel.
In addition, all reasonable travel and business related expenses incurred in connection with carrying out their duties are reimbursed.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive incentives and pension.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding guideline.
128 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Dates of Directors service contracts letters of appointment Director Date of appointment to the Board Rupert Soames 8 May 2014 Angus Cockburn 27 October 2014 1 Ed Casey 25 October 2013 Sir Roy Gardner 1 June 2015 2 Angie Risley 1 April 2011 3 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr 30 June 2011 Mike Clasper 3 March 2014 Rachel Lomax 3 March 2014 John Rishton 13 September 2016 Lynne Peacock 1 July 2017 Ian El-Mokadem 1 July 2017 Kirsty Bashforth 15 September 2017 Notes: 1 Ed Casey stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 31 December 2017.
2 Angie Risley stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 15 September 2017.
3 Ralph Crosby stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 1 July 2017.
All Directors are put forward annually for re-election at the AGM.
129 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The implementation of the Remuneration Policy for year ended 31 December 2017 The Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2017 was consistent with the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2017.
Single Figure Directors remuneration audited information Executive Directors single figure The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for 2017 for each Executive Director, together with comparative figures for 2016.
Details of NEDs fees are set out in the next section.
Ed Caseys 2017 benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of 87,489 for accommodation while in the UK.
Where Serco settles the PAYE and NIC liability in respect of benefits provided, the value of the benefit has been grossed up at the individuals marginal tax rate.
2 The pension amount includes payments made in lieu of pension, calculated as a percentage of base salary, from which the Executive Directors make their own pension arrangements.
Ed Casey's value includes the Serco contribution to his 401K plan.
3 Performance bonuses earned in the period under review, but not paid until the following financial year.
During the year Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn participated in the DBP by deferring 50%, and Ed Casey by deferring 35.6%, of their 2016 bonuses via the purchase of Investment Shares.
Any deferral by Rupert and Angus of their 2017 bonuses, payable in 2018, will take place during 2018 and be reported in the 2018 DRR.
4 This is the estimated or actual value of Long-Term Incentives for which the performance period ended in the year.
Also included is the gain on vesting of Recruitment Awards vesting in 2017 for Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn for which there were no performance conditions but which were not included in the single figure value for the year of grant.
These awards were granted in compensation for non-performance based awards forfeited by Rupert and Angus on joining Serco, therefore no performance conditions applied to the vesting of these awards.
The 2014 PSP Award, and the performance related Recruitment Awards granted to Rupert and Angus, that were subject to TSR performance for which the performance period ended 22 February 2017 did not meet the minimum criteria and therefore these awards lapsed in full.
Further details are provided on page 134.
5 Ed Casey's remuneration is paid in US dollars and has been converted into GBP using the average exchange rate over the relevant financial year.
For the purpose of the 2017 single figure USD 1 GBP 0.77601.
For the purpose of the 2016 single figure USD 1 GBP 0.72672.
The increase in the GBP value of Ed Caseys base salary and pension is due to the exchange rate difference between 2016 and 2017.
His 2017 base salary and pension cash alternative were unchanged from 2016 salary USD 1,061,690 and cash alternative of USD 306,306, with a small reduction in his employer 401K contribution to USD 7,103 in 2017 USD 7,950 in 2016.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017 were: Director Base salary Effective Date Increase Rupert Soames 850,000 8 May 2014 N A Angus Cockburn 500,000 27 October 2014 N A Ed Casey USD 1,061,690 1 April 2014 N A Variable pay outcomes audited information Performance-related annual bonus For 2017, the Executive Director bonus was based on achieving a mix of financial and non-financial objectives which were weighted 70:30 respectively.
The financial measures were based on Trading Profit 40%, Free Cash Flow 40% and Revenue 20% and the non-financial measures were individually set and based on key strategic goals.
Payments under the 2017 annual bonus were subject to an Underlying Trading Profit underpin after adjustment for in-year Onerous Contract Provisions OCP items of 60.4m at constant currency rates.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the achievements against the targets for the year and the proposed annual incentive payments for the Executive Directors.
The tables below show the achievement against the financial and non-financial measures.
130 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Financial performance Achievement against measure Weighting for 2017 Threshold Maximum Actual % maximum 1 % maximum bonus target target performance opportunity for Performance Measure opportunity m m m this measure Revenue 14% 2,866 3,073 2,832 0% Free Cash Flow 28% 38.2 8.7 6.7 100% Trading Profit 28% 60.4 72.4 70.8 94% Note: 1 At constant currency.
Non-financial performance Weighting for 2017 % maximum opportunity 30% Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Ed Casey Achievement against measure 69% 70% 65% % maximum opportunity for this measure Overall 2017 bonus outcome Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Ed Casey Total bonus payable as % of maximum 75.0% 75.3% 73.8% Bonus opportunity as % of salary 150% 130% 150% Bonus amount achieved as % of salary 112.5% 97.9% 110.7% Bonus amount earned 956,505 489,580 USD 1,175,609 For FY17, the Serco Bonus Plan in which Executive Directors participate was focused on three core measures which comprised 70% of the overall opportunity: Group Revenue, Group Trading Profit and Group Free Cash Flow.
The remaining 30% of the opportunity is based on role-specific objectives related to the delivery of the business transformation.
Financial performance has been strong: on both Trading Profit and Free Cash Flow the achievements of the business over the year were in excess of the stretching targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and therefore these components have paid out at 94% and 100% of maximum respectively.
The level of Revenue achieved over the period was below threshold and as such none of this component of the bonus was awarded.
The financial bonus outcomes have been calculated after appropriate adjustments, which were agreed at the beginning of the year as part of the target-setting process and in line with the approach disclosed in respect of 2016.
The Committee has once again spent considerable time reviewing the Trading Profit calculation for bonus purposes, initially working with management to determine a robust approach to decision-making, informed by a review of each individual contract and with cross-referencing to information shared with the Audit Committee.
The Companys external auditors verified the extraction of figures appearing in the accounts and those tabled for bonus purposes, followed by a formal sign-off by the Audit Committee on the numbers used to determine bonus payments prior to decisions being made by the Committee.
As a result of the rigour applied to this process, the Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus out-turn fairly reflects management performance in the year.
Trading Profit of 54.0m is adjusted by the Committee to arrive at a figure for Trading Profit for bonus purposes: shareholders were consulted on the principles behind these adjustments in early 2015, and the bonus outcome for both 2015 and 2016 reflected these principles, the purpose of which is to ensure that management are measured against their in-year performance and are not given credit for gains for which they have not materially influenced.
The Committee has applied 2017 in a consistent manner the principles established in 2015 and 2016.
131 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Variable pay outcomes audited information continued The first adjustment is to put Trading Profit into constant currency, so that it is consistent with the targets set at the beginning of the year: this is a 6.8m reduction.
The Committee then considers items to properly reflect management effort and in-year operational performance.
The Committee has concluded that a total of 23.6m should be added to Trading Profit in constant currency to arrive at a calculation of Trading Profit for bonus purposes in 2017: this compares with the 20.9m which was subtracted from Trading Profit in 2016.
The main difference between the two years is that in 2016 there was an 11.8m net credit to Trading Profit related to Onerous Contract Provisions charges and releases which were excluded from Trading Profit for bonus purposes, whilst in 2017 there was a debit of 19.5m similarly excluded.
For the purposes of comparison the table below sets out the adjustments made by the Committee between Trading Profit and Trading Profit for bonus purposes in 2015, 2016 and 2017. m 2017 2016 2015 Trading profit 54.0 100.3 137.6 Constant currency adjustment 6.8 5.7 7.7 Trading profit at constant currency 47.2 94.6 145.3 Adjustment for bonus purposes 23.6 20.9 32.9 Trading profit for bonus purposes 70.8 73.7 112.4 Underlying Trading Profit at constant currency 63.4 73.4 95.9 Non-Financial Performance Rupert Soames Ruperts objectives included: Improving Business The Committee deemed performance to be very strong.
Rupert has continued to Development performance show highly effective and visible leadership throughout 2017 and over the course to rebuild the pipeline, with of the last 12 months has delivered significant further progress in implementing focus on both new business the strategy and transformation.
The Group signed contracts with a total value wins and total wins including of 3.4bn during the year delivering a strong performance with the largest order re-competes and extensions.
Over 30 contract awards were worth more than 10m each and the large value of the new business won resulted in this being approximately Supporting Divisions in 70% of the total value signed, with the balance represented by secured dealing with commercial extensions or re-bids of existing work.
The Committee continue to monitor the issues and managing key successful embedding of values through the annual employee engagement relationships.
survey Viewpoint which has shown the fourth successive year of improvement: Supporting the Chairman to engagement is a key determinant of the future success of the business.
The ensure the effective working Chairman regards the support Rupert has provided to him in ensuring the of the Board.
effective operation of the Board to continue to be first class.
Based on Ruperts achievement the Committee has awarded an above target but below maximum performance for the non-financial element relating to these objectives.
132 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Angus Cockburn Anguss objectives included: Improving Business The Committee deemed Anguss performance to be very strong against all Development performance objectives.
With profits at top end of expectations we set out some 15 months to rebuild the pipeline, with ago, net debt lower than we expected, fully funded pension schemes, and focus on both new business strong order intake, Angus made a critical contribution to delivering a solid wins and total wins including performance in 2017 in a difficult market.
Contract and Balance Sheet Onerous re-competes and extensions.
Contract Provision liability now stands at 168m, down from 220m in 2016 and 447m in 2014.
Significant work has been undertaken to stress-test the Groups The development of a new financial plan against key sensitivities within the Groups principal risks.
Global Finance Transformation has gathered pace and significant improvements Improving the effectiveness have been made against the key milestones agreed at the start of the year.
and efficiency of the finance In terms of the Transformation Plan, operating costs reduced in proportion to function through the Global the scale of revenue reduction: further shared services and overhead savings Finance Transformation with of around 20m were achieved, taking total overhead savings over the last three a number of key milestones years to over 100m.
Based on Anguss achievement the Committee has awarded agreed at the start of the an above target but below maximum performance for the non-financial element year which built on progress relating to these objectives.
made in the previous year.
Ed Casey Eds objectives focused on: Improving Business The Committee deemed Eds performance to be very strong.
Ed made a Development performance significant positive impact on the development of the pipeline with 3bn of to rebuild the pipeline, with pipeline opportunities added over the course of 2017.
The acquisition of BTP focus on both new business Systems was completed for USD 20m, bringing deep skills in defence satellite wins and total wins including communication and radar engineering technical services, together with a re-competes and extensions.
Significantly improved risk management processes and consistently improved reporting to the Group Risk Committee.
In 2017 Continue to refine and the policies relating to safe and healthy operations were reviewed and embed Risk Management strengthened Group Standards with definitions of safety critical risks.
Ed process and work to embed continued to build our health and safety focus across the Group: examples as part of our operational include in the UK, several Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Gold approach to running the Awards won in 2017, including at RAF Fylingdales and Forth Valley Royal business.
Continuous improvement has been driven in health and safety Continue to strengthen across our businesses, including new tools and training in Serco Americas zero harm HS&E culture to reduce risks and improve safety management in air traffic control and and implement necessary naval engineering, and new tools in Serco AsPac to improve roadside welfare changes to effect change.
safeguards for our road safety camera operators.
Based on Eds achievement Deliver consistent measures the Committee has awarded an above target but below maximum across the Group, and performance for the non-financial element relating to these objectives.
achieve targeted reduction in accident rates.
Note: 1 Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn are entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan the DBP in 2018, up to a maximum of 50% of the bonus determined in respect of 2017 performance.
Ed Casey is unable to participate following the cessation of his employment on 31 December 2017.
133 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Performance Share Plan PSP The LTI amount included in the 2017 single total figure of remuneration includes the element of the 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP awards subject to TSR performance in the period to the announcement of the Companys 2016 results on 22 February 2017, and the elements of the 2015 PSP awards subject to EPS and ROIC performance in the period to 31 December 2017.
The awards granted to Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn were in the form of nominal cost options.
Ed Caseys awards are in the form of conditional share awards.
The performance assessment and vesting outcome for each award is as follows: 2 Relative Threshold Maximum Percentage of Award Performance condition weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Actual max.
achieved 1 2014 PSP Relative TSR 1 3 Median Upper Below 0% ranking Quartile ranking Median 2015 PSP Adjusted EPS 1 3 10.3p 12.5p 19.53p 100% 2015 PSP Average pre-tax ROIC 1 3 8.4% 10.2% 11.9% 100% Notes: 1 The Companys TSR performance was assessed relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250, excluding investment trusts, over the period starting on the 27 June 2014 and ending on 22 February 2017 with the announcement of the Companys results for the 2016 financial year.
2 In all cases 25% of the award vests at threshold performance, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at maximum performance.
These are the adjusted number of shares awarded.
2 As these awards are still to vest at the time of reporting the share price used is the Q4 average closing share price to 31 December 2017.
3 Ed Caseys unvested awards lapsed in full on his cessation of employment therefore the value in connection with his 2015 PSP awards with a performance period ending in 2017 is nil.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP The performance period for the 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Matching Share Award a conditional share award wholly subject to EPS performance ended on 31 December 2017.
25% of this award vested for threshold performance of an Adjusted EPS of 10.3p rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for at or above maximum performance of an Adjusted EPS of 12.5p.
The Adjusted EPS for the period was measured as 19.53p therefore the 2015 DBP Matching Share Award will vest in full.
of shares Share price Value of Director Date of grant awarded vesting Vesting date at vest vesting 1 Rupert Soames 29 May 2015 658,288 658,288 29 May 2018 1.0552 694,606 Note: 1 As these awards are still to vest at the time of reporting the share price used is the Q4 average closing share price to 31 December 2017.
134 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Recruitment Awards The 2017 LTI value includes the elements of the Recruitment Awards in the form of nominal cost options with performance periods ending in the relevant year which were granted in 2014 to Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn in respect of unvested performance awards forfeited on joining Serco.
These elements of the Recruitment Awards were i subject to relative TSR performance in the period to the announcement of the Companys 2016 results on 22 February 2017 40% of the award, and ii Strategic Objective performance 20% of the award in the period ending 27 June 2017 in respect of Ruperts award and 31 October 2017 in respect of Anguss award.
The remaining 40% of these awards is subject to an Absolute Share Price performance condition for which the performance period will end in 2018.
For the TSR element, 25% of the award would vest for median ranking compared to the comparator group rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile or better ranking when compared to the comparator group.
The comparator group for the TSR performance was the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
The relative TSR performance assessed was below median and therefore this element lapsed in full.
The Remuneration Committee made the following assessment of performance against the Strategic Objectives and determined that in both cases the award should vest in full.
Executive Director Strategic Objectives set Assessment of performance Rupert Soames Ruperts objectives focused on: Significant progress has been made in improving cash conversion and minimising net debt.
Improving cash conversion: Rupert has ensured that the Company now has a Implementing transparent KPI comprehensive management accounts pack and has reporting: been instrumental in introducing standardised and transparent Divisional reports.
Development of strong management talent within the The Finance function has been transformed with the finance function: and recruitment of Angus Cockburn, whom Rupert has supported in the recruitment of additional core talent Improving operating margin.
Since the year of grant 2014 there has been a significant improvement in operating margin.
Based on Ruperts achievement the Committee determined that 100% of this award should vest.
Angus Cockburn Anguss objectives focused on: Angus has been central to the development and implementation of our corporate plan, and most Implementing the Companys specifically around the Rights Issue, the assessment of corporate plan: the write-downs and provisions in November 2014, and the subsequent implementation of an effective reporting Rebuilding the Senior process.
Management Team: Angus has completely overhauled the Finance Team, Improving cash conversion: and including the recruitment of a number of high-class Improving operating margin.
individuals, transforming it into an effective global team.
Based on Anguss achievement the Committee determined that 100% of this award should vest.
135 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Recruitment Awards continued Executive Performance condition Date No.
of shares Share price Value 1 Director and relative weighting of grant Awarded vesting Vesting date at vest at vest Rupert TSR 40% 153,953 0 27 June 2014 27 June 2017 1.192 Soames Strategic Objectives 20% 76,977 76,977 90,232 Angus TSR 40% 112,714 0 31 October 2014 31 October 2017 1.166 Cockburn Strategic Objectives 20% 56,356 56,356 64,584 Note: 1 The number of shares under award was adjusted on the Rights Issue in 2015.
Also included is the value of Recruitment Awards in the form of conditional share awards granted in 2014 to Rupert and Angus in respect of unvested awards forfeited on joining Serco that were not subject to performance conditions.
These awards vested in full in 2017 and were not previously included in the single figure value for the year of grant.
of shares Share price Value 1 Director of grant Awarded vesting Vesting date at vest at vest Rupert Soames 27 June 2014 58,988 58,988 10 April 2017 1.161 68,485 39,849 39,849 10 April 2017 1.161 46,265 Angus Cockburn 31 October 2014 25,899 25,899 18 April 2017 1.121 29,033 Note: 1 The number of shares under award was adjusted on the Rights Issue in 2015.
Single Figure Non-Executive Directors' remuneration audited information Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of cash fees paid monthly with increments for positions of additional responsibility.
In addition, an inter-continental travel allowance and reasonable travel and related business expenses are paid.
No bonuses are paid to Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors fees are not performance-related.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
The fees and terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed on an annual basis, taking into consideration market practice and are approved by the Board.
2 Mike Clasper is Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a Member of Audit, Remuneration until 4 December 2017, Nomination and Group Risk Committees.
3 Ralph Crosby stepped down from the Board on 1 July 2017.
4 Rachel Lomax is Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and a Member of Audit Committee.
5 Angie Risley is Chairman of Remuneration Committee and a Member of Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
She stepped down from the Board on 15 September 2017.
6 John Rishton is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Member of the Remuneration Committee and Group Risk Committees.
7 Ian El-Mokadem joined the Board on 1 July 2017 and is a Member of the Group Risk and Corporate Responsibilities Committees.
8 Lynne Peacock joined the Board on 1 July 2017 and is Chairman of Remuneration Committee and a Member of the Audit Committee.
9 Kirsty Bashforth joined the Board on 15 September 2017 and is a Member of the Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
10 Up to 5,000 is payable for each occasion that requires inter-continental travel outside of the directors country of residence.
11 Taxable benefits in 2016 and 2017 relate to reimbursed taxable travel and subsistence business expenses.
Sir Roy Gardner also received secretarial services in 2016 of 21,600.
Performance graph and table This graph shows the value as at 31 December 2017, of a 100 investment in Serco on 31 December 2008 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE250 index on the same date.
It has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30- day period up to and including that date.
The Company chose the FTSE250 index as the comparator for this graph as Serco has been a constituent of that index throughout the period.
Serco Performance Graph 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Serco FTSE 250 Index 137 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued CEOs pay in last nine financial years Annual bonus outcome LTI vesting outcome Year ended CEO single figure as % of maximum as % of maximum 31 December Group CEO remuneration opportunity opportunity 2009 Christopher Hyman 3,625,830 90% 295% 2010 Christopher Hyman 2,646,894 91% 169% 2011 Christopher Hyman 2,826,038 81% 80% 2012 Christopher Hyman 2,582,185 72% 64% 2013 Christopher Hyman 893,451 N A 0% Ed Casey 294,782 74% 0% 2014 Ed Casey 1,605,064 71% 0% Rupert Soames 747,655 0% N A 2015 Rupert Soames 2,255,493 87% 100% 2016 Rupert Soames 2,216,566 82% 24% 2017 Rupert Soames 3,804,924 75% 91% Percentage change in CEOs remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the salary, benefits and bonus of the CEO compared to that for the average UK employee.
The UK employee sub-set of the Companys global employee population has been chosen as the group which provides the most appropriate comparator: this comprises some 21,000 of the 42,700 employees Serco employs worldwide.
Inflation and local pay practices form a key driver in the salary and benefits provided in each location, and as the CEO is based in the UK we have chosen employees within the same country.
2 3 Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 0% 37% 9% 1 Average change for all other UK employees 1.28% 5% 18% Notes: 1 This represents the average pay increase for all UK employees that was applied in the 2017 annual pay review cycle.
2 The nature of benefits provided to the CEO and to employees in 2017 compared to 2016 remains the same.
The percentage change represents a reduction in the cost to the Company of the benefits over the period.
The increase in the CEOs taxable benefit value with the increase equivalent to 1% of salary relates to taxable travel which was provided in line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
3 The bonus element is shown for those employees eligible for such payments.
The figures shown here relate to a calculation of the bonus earned, but not yet paid, related to performance in 2017 compared to the 2016 bonuses paid in April 2017.
The reduction in the average employee bonus is due to the different performance outcomes at Divisional and Business Unit levels compared to 2016 which impacts the bonuses for the comparator population.
138 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Relative importance of spend on pay The table below details the percentage change in dividends and overall expenditure on pay compared with the previous financial year.
Serco considers overall expenditure on staff pay in the context of the general finances of the Company.
This includes the determination of the annual salary increase budget, the annual grant of shares and annual bonus for the business.
2017 vs 2016 2017 2016 Dividend per share 0% nil nil Overall expenditure on wages and salaries 0.2% 1,513.6m 1,517.2m Dividend per share, and overall expenditure on wages and salaries have the same meaning as in the Notes to the Group Financial Statements.
Pensions audited information As at 31 December 2017, there were no Executive Directors actively participating in or accruing additional entitlement in the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a defined benefits scheme.
Payments for loss of office audited information The Committee determined that Ed Casey would not receive any additional payments on the termination of his employment.
In recognition of his contribution to the Company throughout the whole performance year the Committee determined that he would remain entitled to receive his 2017 Annual Bonus as disclosed in the single figure table and accompanying notes, which will be paid in March 2018.
All unvested share awards lapsed in full on cessation of employment.
In line with his expatriate arrangement Ed will receive UK and US tax return assistance for the final year of his assignment.
No further payments will be made.
Payments to Past Directors audited information No payments were made in the year to past Directors.
139 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued Awards made in 2017 Performance Share Plan PSP audited information In 2017 the Executive Directors received awards equivalent to 200% of salary for the CEO and COO and 175% of salary for the CFO.
The awards will vest at the end of the performance period, if the Executive Directors are still in employment with Serco and to the extent that the performance conditions have been met as measured over the three year performance period ending 31 December 2019.
Performance Measure Weighting of Measure Performance Target Aggregate EPS 1 3rd Statutory Earnings Per Share EPS before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis of 13.5p threshold, 25% vesting to 16.5p maximum, 100% vesting, measured as an aggregate over the three-year performance period.
Relative TSR 1 3rd Total Shareholder Return TSR of median threshold, 25% vesting to upper quartile maximum, 100% vesting when ranked relative to companies in the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts, measured over the three year performance period.
Average ROIC 1 3rd Pre-tax Return on Invested Capital ROIC of 8.4% threshold, 25% vesting to 10.2% maximum, 100% vesting, measured as an average over the three-year performance period.
The structure for vesting is the same for all measures, with straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum, and no shares vest where performance is below threshold.
Each element of the PSP award is subject to a post-vesting holding requirement that takes the total term of the award ie performance period plus holding period to a minimum of five years.
Pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback is also applicable to these awards.
Percentage Type of Basis Market price vesting at Performance interest of award at award Face value threshold Number period end 1 2 3 Directors awarded % salary Grant date p performance of shares date Rupert Nominal 200% 06 April 2017 113.00 1,700,000 25% 1,504,424 31 December Soames cost option 2019 Angus Nominal 175% 06 April 2017 113.00 875,000 25% 774,336 31 December Cockburn cost option 2019 Ed Conditional 175% 06 April 2017 113.00 1,500,761 25% 1,328,107 31 December 4 Casey share award 2019 Notes: 1 Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn received grants in the form of nominal cost options with a 2 pence per share exercise price.
Due to US tax treatment of discounted options Ed Casey's award was made in the form of a conditional share award.
2 Closing share price on 5 April 2017.
3 Calculated using the closing share price on the trading day immediately prior to the grant date.
4 All unvested PSP awards for Ed Casey lapsed on the cessation of his employment.
140 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Deferred Bonus Plan DBP audited information The table below summarises the Matching Share Awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017 in relation to their participation in the DBP.
Executive Directors received a Matching Share Award in the form of a conditional share award on a 2:1 basis in respect of their gross bonus deferred i. e. for every one Investment Share that could have been purchased from the gross bonus deferred, two Matching Shares are granted.
Matching Share Awards granted in 2017 vest subject to Aggregate EPS over the three year performance period ending 31 December 2019.
25% of the Matching Share Award will vest for threshold performance Aggregate EPS of 13.5p, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for maximum performance Aggregate EPS of 16.5p or above.
The definition of EPS is statutory Earnings Per Share before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis.
Percentage vesting at Basis of award Face value threshold Number Performance 1 Directors % salary Grant date performance of shares period end date Rupert Soames 09 May 2017 1,049,323 25% 873,926 31 December 2019 123% Angus Cockburn 09 May 2017 530,073 25% 441,470 31 December 2019 106% 4 Ed Casey 09 May 2017 693,837 25% 577,860 31 December 2019 84% Notes: 1 The face value has been determined using the share price on 8 May 2017 of 120.07p per share being the price paid by the Directors to acquire their Investment Shares in connection with this award of DBP Matching Shares.
This share price was used to determine the number of shares granted under the Matching Share Award.
2 The Investment Shares that Ed Casey invested into the DBP in respect of 2016 bonus earned will be released to him.
The Matching Share Award lapsed in full on cessation of his employment.
Pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback is applicable to these awards.
141 Directors' Report Remuneration Report continued External appointments The Board believes that the Group can benefit from its Executive Directors holding appropriate Non-Executive Directorships of companies or independent bodies.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Board.
Fees are retained by the Executive Director concerned.
During the year Angus Cockburn served as a Non-Executive Director of GKN plc.
Fees payable in the year were 63,000.
Since the end of the year, Angus has been appointed with effect from 20 February 2018 as the Senior Independent Director of GKN plc following which, in addition to his Non-Executive Director fees, he will receive additional fees of 10,000 per annum for this additional responsibility.
No other fee-paying external positions were held by the Executive Directors during the year ending 31 December 2017.
Directors shareholding and share interests audited information Current shareholdings are summarised in the table below.
Shares are valued for shareholding guideline purposes at the year-end price, which was 98.90p per share at 29 December 2017 being the last trading day of the financial year.
Executive Directors 6 Number of Shares Share options shares owned outright including Total share Share connected persons interests at 31 ownership at 31 December Value Subject to Subject to Exercised December 2017 4 requirements 2017 or date of invested performance performance during the or date of 2 3 5 7 8 3 Name % of salary cessation conditions conditions year cessation Rupert Soames 200% 1,368,417 2,070,653 2,686,754 4,958,268 76,977 9,013,439 Angus Cockburn 150% 516,926 604,684 1,030,059 2,619,823 56,356 4,166,808 1 Ed Casey 150% 283,965 571,648 4,370,912 4,654,877 Notes: 1 All of Ed Caseys interests in shares subject to performance conditions were unvested at the point of cessation of employment on 31 December 2017 and were lapsed in full as of this date.
2 The CEO, Rupert Soames, and CFO, Angus Cockburn, are expected to have met their shareholding guidelines during the course of 2018.
3 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
There were no changes in Directors interests in the period 1 January 2018 and the date of this report.
4 Based on the share price at the point of acquisition of each tranche of shares held outright at 31 December 2017 by the Executive Director and or their connected persons.
5 Includes awards made to Ed Casey under the Performance Share Plan and awards made to Rupert Soames, Angus Cockburn and Ed Casey under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
All awards are in the form of conditional share awards.
There are no interests in the form of conditional share awards that are not subject to performance conditions.
6 All options are in the form of nominal cost options subject to a 2 pence per share exercise price.
There are no interests in the form of share options that are not subject to performance conditions, nor are there any share options that are vested but unexercised.
7 Includes awards under the Performance Share Plan and the special Recruitment Awards that were made to Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn in compensation for performance-based awards that were forfeited in connection with them joining Serco as disclosed in the 2014 DRR.
These are all nominal cost options with a 2 pence per share exercise price.
8 Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn exercised vested options in respect of their Recruitment Awards that were subject to Strategic Objective performance conditions for which the performance period ended, and vesting occurred, in the year.
142 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any share-based incentives and do not hold any interests in shares other than shares owned outright.
Number of shares owned outright including connected persons at 31 December 2017 1 Name or date of resignation Sir Roy Gardner 75,000 Mike Clasper 56,000 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr Rachel Lomax 40,000 Angie Risley 20,508 John Rishton 43,086 Ian El-Mokadem 50,000 Lynne Peacock 15,000 Kirsty Bashforth Notes: 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
2 Non-Executive Directors do not have shareholding guidelines and there are no interests in shares held by Non-Executive Directors where the individual does not own those shares outright.
Other shareholding information Shareholder dilution Awards granted under the Company share plans are met either by the issue of new shares or by shares held in trust when awards vest.
The Committee monitors the number of shares issued under its various share plans and their impact on dilution limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Investment Association formerly the ABI in respect of all share plans is 10% in any rolling ten-year period and in respect of discretionary share plans is 5% in any rolling ten-year period.
Based on the Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2017, our dilution level was within these limits.
The Group has an employee share ownership trust which is administered by an independent trustee and which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet various obligations under the share plans.
The Trust held 9,864,986 and 8,728,497 ordinary shares at 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017 respectively.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 21 February 2018 143
