Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 69 Directors Remuneration Report Stephen Pull In developing the Policy, the Committee Chairmans statement Chairman, Remuneration Committee tookinto account the fact that TP ICAP is theworlds largest interdealer broker: the Dear shareholder, markets in which we operate are global 2 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Committee members Meetings attended andcompetition for talent is intense.
Our present the Directors Remuneration Report Stephen Pull 4 4 principal competitors are BGC Partners Inc. DRR for the year to 31 December 2017.
Angela Knight 4 4 and Compagnie Financire Tradition neither Thereport comprises: David Shalders 4 4 of which are listed on the UK stock market.
Edmund Ng 1 1 the Annual Report on Remuneration, We are pleased to report that this Policy was which explains how we applied our 1 Edmund Ng was appointed as director of TP ICAP plc approved by more than 89% of shareholders Policyin 2017: and on 1 November 2017. at the 2017 AGM.
No changes to the Policy the approved Directors Remuneration 2 In addition to the scheduled meetings, three further are proposed this year, as the integration of meetings were held at short notice, two in February Policy for 2017-2019. the two businesses continues to progress.
All members were able to attend the additional meetings.
There will be an advisory vote on the 2017 Performance and reward Annual Report on Remuneration, together outcomesfor 2017 How the Committee spent with this opening statement, at the AGM Our Policy rebalances compensation its time during the year tobe held in May 2018.
The Directors towardslong term performance, through % Remuneration Policy the Policy for theTransformation LTIP, with the annual 2017-2019 was approved at the 2017 AGM, bonus opportunity for Executive Directors and has been applied during the year.
This is reflected in Wehave included the approved Policy thereward outcomes for 2017.
Our Chief infullon pages 83 to 86 of this report, Executive received an annual bonus for 2017 forinformation.
49% lower than for 2016 and our Chief Financial Officer received a bonus 35% lower Background than 2016 on an annualised basis.
In each As disclosed in last years DRR, the case, 50% of the gross bonus is awarded in Committee undertook a fundamental shares with a three-year deferral period.
The reviewof the Directors Remuneration Executive director 27% 2015 LTIS award will vest as to 61% out of a Policyin light of the acquisition of ICAP.
remuneration possible 75% arising from the TSR and cash Governance 25% flow measures.
The remaining 25% of the A one-off, Transformation Long Term Policy 22% award depends upon a comparative RoE Incentive Plan Transformation LTIP was Senior management 11% metric and its percentage vesting will be introduced with demanding targets aligned remuneration determined during Q2 2018. to the three-year integration period to Routine matters 10% reward the Executive Directors for value Executive incentive schemes 5% Financial performance for 2017 delivered created from the acquisition, with no further anincrease in underlying operating profit awards under the Long Term Incentive of10%.
Scheme LTIS over this period and reduced potential annual bonus payments.
The Our remuneration policy, integration is currently on track after year approved in 2017, one of the three-year integration period, and is entering the challenging second phase.
aligns the interests of The Transformation LTIP was designed to management and drivesustained performance throughout shareholders with the thethree years of the integration period.
successful three-year integration of the TP ICAP businesses.
com 70 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension Looking ahead to 2018 Non-executive Director NED fees were There has been growing pressure from John Phizackerley will receive a salary reviewed during the year.
The NED base fee investors for downward alignment of pension increase in line with the planned average will remain unchanged for 2018.
However allowances for Executive Directors with the percentage increase to the broader thefees for chairing the Audit, Risk and broader workforce.
At TP ICAP, Executive workforce of 3%, for 2018.
The annual bonus Remuneration Committees have each Directors are eligible for the same level of will continue to be based on a scorecard of beenincreased to 20,000 per annum Company pension contributions as applies annual financial and strategic performance effective 1November 2017, and the Senior toother employees.
Furthermore, where targets, aligned to the three-year integration Independent Director fee has also been executives are unable to receive pension plan, and conduct and risk KPIs.
There are no increased to 10,000 per annum.
contributions due to HMRC limits, the changes to the maximum bonus opportunity Feesof10,000 per annum will be paid for Companys current practice is not to provide of 2.5x base salary for the Chief Executive.
membership of the Audit, Risk and cash in lieu of pension, so the Chief 50% of the total bonus awarded will be Remuneration Committees.
As we reported Executives current pension benefit is zero.
deferred into shares vesting after three years.
in last years Annual Report, the Board There will be no further long-term incentive decided to appoint new NEDs from Asia and Departing Chief Financial Officer awards during the operation of the from the Americas, and we were pleased As announced on 3 November 2017, Andrew Transformation LTIP.
toreport the appointment of Edmund Ng Baddeley stepped down from the Board, asthenew NED from Asia, and Michael and remained an employee for the first two As discussed in last years Remuneration Heaneyfrom the Americas.
The Board has months of his six month notice period to Report, the Transformation LTIP was also introduced a fee supplement of 45,000 for ensure a smooth transition whilst the search intended to reward Global Executive the Asia and Americas NEDs to recognise commenced for his replacement.
Andrew Committee GEC members to ensure the thesignificant additional time commitment leftemployment on 31 December 2017 GECs long-term reward potential is aligned required of these NEDs in attending Board theTermination Date.
He was awarded tothe same overarching performance goals meetings.
The Chairmans fees increased and behaviours as the Executive Directors.
abonus for 2017, based on performance to250,000 from 200,000 effective Accordingly, GEC members also participate achieved, with 50% of the bonus deferred 1November 2017.
Increased fees reflect inthe Transformation LTIP and have received and awarded in shares with a three-year asignificant increase in workload and confirmation of their individual awards.
He will also retain a time-reduced followed an external benchmarking exercise.
Whilst the Transformation LTIP is the principal portion of his Transformation LTIP award, element of Executive Director remuneration, which will vest in 2020 subject to the The Board is currently in the process of replacing the previous LTIS grants for the performance conditions.
His outstanding considering candidates for the position 2017-19 period, theTransformation LTIP is an deferred bonus awards will vest at the ofCFO and will announce the appointment additional remuneration element for GEC normal time, and his outstanding 2016 LTIS indue course.
Details of the CFOs members and is therefore awarded at a award is time pro-rated in line with the rules remuneration will be included in next substantially lower quantum.
of the plan and will vest in 2018 based on yearsDirectors Remuneration Report.
performance assessed to the Termination Date.
Full details on the payments made to How the Policy links to our strategy Andrew Baddeley are set out on pages 78 and 79.
Short-term Long-term Strategy KPIs KPIs Successful integration of Annual bonus Transformation LTIP the TP ICAP business Strategic Share price growth Realise significant Performance Target: and dividends cost synergies Financial Metrics Increased earnings Create additional Operating Profit per share efficiencies Returns RoE Grow revenues Capitalise on brand Invest in talent TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 71 Key Remuneration Committee activities The Directors Remuneration Report has been Governance The Committees key activities during 2017 prepared in accordance with the Large and included the following: Medium-sized Companies and Groups Key responsibilities of the Committee Accounts and Reports Amendment The Board has delegated responsibility extensive consultation with shareholders Regulations 2013, the UKLA Listing Rules and tothe Committee for: and their agents in connection with the the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The new Remuneration Policy approved in Companies Act2006 requires the auditor to developing and maintaining May 2017 : report to the Companys members on certain formaland transparent policies on established the Deferred Bonus programme parts of the Directors Remuneration Report remuneration for the Companys for Senior Management for 2017: and to state whether in their opinion those employees, the framework in which formalised the Executive Director Bonus parts of the report have beenproperly that policy is applied and its costs: Plan to reflect the new Remuneration Policy: prepared in accordance withthe regulations.
reviewing remuneration policies agreed and set specific 2017 Strategic toensure compliance Performance Objectives for each The Remuneration Committee Chairmans  Executive Director in order to assess 25% statement, the Directors Remuneration : of their 2017 Bonus: Policy and certain parts of the Annual ensuring implementation of determined the financial metrics used to Report on Remuneration indicated in Companysremuneration policies assess 75% of the Executive Directors thatreport are unaudited.
issubject to review: 2017 Bonus: considering relationships approved the Plan Rules for the Definitions used in this report betweenincentives and risk to Transformation LTIP: and Executive Director means any ensurethat riskandrisk appetite determined termination arrangements executivemember of the Board: areproperly considered in setting for the outgoing CFO.
remuneration policy: Senior Management means those ensuring Executive Director The Committee continues to monitor membersof the Companys Group remuneration is in line with the most developments in executive remuneration ExecutiveCommittee other than the recent Remuneration Policy: market practice and governance to ensure Executive Directors and the first level determining and approving the rules the Policy and practices take account of best ofmanagement below that level including of any new employee share scheme or practice and investor expectations.
Over the the direct reports to the Chief Information other equity based long-term incentive coming year, the Board and the Committee Officer, Global Head of Operations and programme or any new performance will consider the impact on the Company of Group CAO: related pay schemes and total annual the proposed changes to the UK Corporate payments under such schemes: and Broker means front office revenue generators: Governance Code and any secondary reviewing and approving after legislation introduced by the Government.
consultation with the Chief Executive, Control Functions means those The Company will also report its Gender Pay the level andstructure of remuneration employeesengaged in functions such Gap data in line with the regulations.
asCompliance, Legal, HR, Finance, Operations and Risk Control: We remain committed to maintaining The Committees terms of reference are anopen and transparent dialogue with available on the Companys website: Remuneration Code means the shareholders and look forward to your www.
com Remuneration Code of the FCA: and continued support of our Directors Remuneration Report at the 2018 AGM.
2013 Regulations means the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Stephen Pull Accounts and Reports Amendment Chairman Regulations 2013.
com 72 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration audited The Annual Statement made by the Remuneration Committee Chairman on pages 69 to 71 and this Annual Report on Remuneration are subject to a shareholders advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Information in this report on pages 72 to 89 is audited except where stated.
Members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were: Stephen Pull Chairman, David Shalders, Angela Knight and Edmund Ng.
Prior to joining, Andrew Baddeley had a consultancy agreement with the Company through Ponos Consulting Ltd and received 16,800 in fees.
Andrew stepped down from the Board on 3 November 2017 and the table reflects his remuneration until this date.
3 Stepped down from the Board on 6 May 2016.
4 In addition he received 5,000 as a pension trustee.
5 In addition he received 5,000 as a pension trustee.
6 Based on performance to 31 December 2016 for the 2014 LTIS award.
Payment in respect of total shareholder return TSR and Cash Flow performance metrics was disclosed in the 2016 report.
RoE was tested in June 2017, and there has been no change to the vesting reported in the 2016 Annual Report.
Further details are set out on page 76.
7 Based on TSR and Cash Flow performance to 31 December 2017 for the 2015 LTIS award.
Performance against the RoE metric will be assessed in Q2 2018 and any adjustments set out in the 2018 report.
8 Benefits include health and risk benefits: private medical insurance, group life assurance and group income protection.
The award vested following the termination of employment on 30 June 2016.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 73 Fixed remuneration audited As stated in last years DRR, the fixed remuneration of the Chief Executive, John Phizackerley, was increased following the acquisition to 600,000 effective from 1 January 2017.
This reflected the increase in scope of his role, his strong performance over the previous two years and, took into account negligible benefits and no pension allowance.
The Chief Executives fixed remuneration remains significantly below market competitive levels.
Andrew Baddeley, the Chief Financial Officer, also received an increase in salary to 425,000 effective from 1 January 2017 in view of the changes to his role following the acquisition.
For 2018, the Chief Executives base salary has been increased by 3%, in line with the planned average percentage salary increase to the broader workforce, to 620,000 effective from 1 January 2018.
Base salary Base salary effective effective from from 1 January 1 January Executive 2017 2018 John Phizackerley 600,000 620,000 2017 annual bonus audited For 2017, the annual bonus was based 75% on financial performance and 25% on strategic performance, with a maximum opportunity of 2.5x base salary for the CEO and 2 x base salary for the CFO.
Details of the 2017 financial measures and weightings, the targets set and performance against these targets are provided in the table below: Threshold Target Maximum performance performance performance target target target Actual Payout 25% of 60% of 100% of performance % of Financial performance measure Weighting maximum maximum maximum achieved maximum Underlying Operating Profit 50% 215m 245m 275m 263m 42% Return on Equity 25% 8% 9% 10% 9.7% 22% Total for financial metrics 64% www.
com 74 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of the 2017 strategic objectives for each Executive Director, along with the corresponding performance assessment, are set out in the following tables: 1 CEO Strategic Objectives unaudited Weighting Score Assessment of performance Oversee year one of the integration of the TP ICAP business with 2% 2% Provided strategic oversight for the a specific focus on achieving the budgeted Group underlying integration: held GEC members accountable profit margin to achieve stretch targets for the year Champion and develop the Institutional Services new business 2% 1.5% Good progress made to establish clear initiative with a compelling investment thesis and a clear path strategic plan for implementation in 2018 to revenue generation Champion and develop the Data & Analytics business enhanced 2% 2% Appointed a new Chief Executive for Data strategy with appropriate leadership selection and a clear path & Analytics business and supported the to value creation introduction of new products in the business Evolve the Global Executive Committee to deliver a unified 2% 2% Streamlined the GEC membership with and effective best in class management structure a specific focus on business leadership Continue to drive the rebalancing of broker pay structure whilst 2% 2% Progressed targeted investment in the next investing in the next generation of brokers and enhancing diversity generation of brokers while driving the initial steps to rebalance broker pay Develop the Brexit strategy for TP ICAP 2% 1.5% Appointed a senior sponsor and formed a committee to develop the Brexit strategy for the Group Drive and continue to embed the right culture for the agreed future 10% 10% Outspoken champion for positive Culture state for TP ICAP and personally demonstrate required Conduct and Conduct.
Focused on driving the and Behaviour standards alignment of Culture and Conduct across thecombined TP ICAP Group.
Culture and Conduct standard bearer for the Company Remuneration Committee Discretion 3% 3% Excellent performance in unifying TP ICAP with common goals.
Strong proponent for the hybrid voice broking industry Total for strategic metrics 25% 24% 1 Expressed in percentage points summing to 25% in total.
25% being the proportion of the total bonus determined by reference to non-financial metrics.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 75 1 CFO Strategic Objectives unaudited Weighting Score Assessment of performance Lead the year one overall integration project with a focus 2% 2% Strong performance in driving the on driving a managed and cost efficient integration strategy integration strategy forward across all regions Achieve refinancing of the Groups debt Delivery of 500m 2% 2% Achieved oversubscribed of finance through issue of a bond targeting a 5-7 year duration and achieve interest cost saving Lead finance team globally delivering the 2017 integration plan and 2% 1% Empowered the finance leadership team realising synergies planned for 2017.
Focus on team building both to determine the appropriate operating within the finance function and across the wider organisation model and platforms including the finance team, other members of the GEC and the Board Guide the 2017 consensus engage with analysts to ensure 4% 2% Engaged with analysts throughout the an orderly approach to understanding the first set of TP ICAP half-year process results for half and full year.
Demonstrate clear ownership and understanding of the detailed financials for the combined Company Legal entity reorganisation project to deliver a detailed strategic 4% 2% Some progress made plan to the Board.
Create US consolidation group moving the ICAP companies to US hold-co optimising the funding structure.
Liquidate as many companies as possible during 2017 Drive and continue to embed the right culture for the agreed future 8% 4% Contributed to the embedding of state for TP ICAP and personally demonstrate required Conduct TP ICAP culture and Behaviour standards Remuneration Committee Discretion 3% 2% Recognition for additional responsibilities in acting as COO for the first part of the year Total for strategic metrics 25% 15% 1 Expressed in percentage points summing to 25% in total, 25% being the proportion of the total bonus determined by reference to non-financial metrics.
com 76 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued The total bonus for each Executive Director for 2017 is therefore as follows audited : CEO bonus CFO bonus 1 1 Measure Weighting % MBO % MBO Underlying Operating Profit 50% 42% 42% Return on Equity 25% 22% 22% Strategic Performance 25% 24% 15% Total bonus: 100% 88% 79% 1 MBO Maximum Bonus Opportunity.
50% of the total bonus for each Executive Director will be awarded in Company shares and deferred for three years.
Vesting of 2015 LTIS awards audited In 2015, the Chief Executive was awarded an LTIS award with a face value of 654,545 and a normal vesting date of 30 June 2018.
Theportion of the 2015 LTIS for which the level of vesting can be determined is shown in the Remuneration table on page 72.
The vesting conditions and performance against targets are shown below: Stretch Threshold performance performance target target 25% 100% Actual Performance measure Weighting vesting vesting performance Vesting 22nd Upper out of 183 1 Relative TSR 50% Median quartile companies 100% 2 Average Cash Flow 25% 40m 150m 71m 46% Equal to IDB 3 x IDB To be competitors competitors assessed 3 Return on Equity 25% average average Q2 2018 Total 100% 1 TSR versus constituents of FTSE 250.
2 Before debt repayments and dividends.
3 The companies comprising the comparator group are BGC Partners Inc. and Compagnie Financire Tradition.
The performance against the TSR and Cash Flow targets result in a payment of 402,708 to the Chief Executive to be made in 2018.
Vesting for the RoE element will be measured in Q2 2018 once IDB competitors have released their accounts.
The additional amount for this vesting will be shown in the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report.
Update on vesting of 2014 LTIS awards audited The CEO had a 2014 LTIS award measuring performance from 2014 to 2016.
As disclosed in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, the Relative TSR and Cash Flow measures partially vested 88.93% and 43.4% respectively.
The Return on Equity RoE element was measured in June 2017 following the release of competitor accounts.
RoE did not achieve the required minimum level.
There was no change to the value vested under the 2014 LTIS as reported in the 2016 Annual Report.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 77 Transformation LTIP Units awarded in 2017 audited The Executive Directors were granted awards under the Transformation LTIP on 19 May 2017, vesting after three years on 19 May 2020 based on performance over the three-year integration period for Tullett Prebon and ICAP, from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019.
The awards were granted over Units in a plan pool, the value of which is determined at the end of the performance period.
To the extent that the awards vest, the Units will be converted into shares, at an average share price determined shortly prior to the vesting date.
The maximum available pool is 60 million, of which the CEO received a 25% interest and the CFO a 16% interest.
Maximum value Number of Threshold Target value capped End of Nature of units value 25% 50% value at performance Executive Director award awarded vesting vesting vesting period 31 December John Phizackerley Units 25,000 3.75 million 7.5 million 15 million 2019 31 December 1 Andrew Baddeley Units 16,000 2.4 million 4.8 million 9.6 million 2019 1 Under the terms of his termination agreement, Andrew Baddeley will receive a time reduced amount of 17% of his award 680 units at threshold, 1,360 units at target, and 2,720 units at maximum, subject to achievement of the performance conditions as detailed in the Rules of the Transformation LTIP.
2 End TSR is based on the average during the first quarter of 2020.
The performance conditions for the awards are as follows: Stretch Threshold Target performance performance performance target target 25% target 50% 100% 1 1 1 Performance measure Weighting vesting vesting vesting Absolute TSR 75% 8% p. a.
Underlying EPS 25% 48p 54p 60p 1 Straight-line interpolation applies in between level.
2 For the financial year ending 31 December 2019.
Once vested, Plan Units will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Any shares received will be subject to a post-vesting holding period of between one and three years from the date of grant following the vesting date of the Plan Units, as follows: one third of shares must be held for 1 year from the date the shares are granted one third of shares must be held for 2 years from the date the shares are granted one third of shares must be held for 3 years from the date the shares are granted Malus withholding and claw-back recovery provisions apply to the awards for three years from vesting in exceptional circumstances, including a material misstatement of performance, a material misstatement of results, or gross misconduct and or fraud, wilful dishonesty oraccounting malfeasance.
com 78 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Shareholding requirements unaudited Half of the 2017 bonus awarded to each of the Executive Directors was deferred under the Executive Director Bonus Plan.
Executive Directors must hold a minimum number of the Companys ordinary shares equivalent to 300% of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and 200% of base salary for all other Executive Directors built up over a five year period.
All Executive Directors who served during the year complied with the Companys requirements in respect of their interests in theshares of the Company.
Non-executive Directors are not required to hold interests in the Companys shares and the decision to invest is left to their personal discretion.
Directors interests audited The interests all beneficial as at 31 December 2017 during the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: 1 Director Shares Rupert Robson 17,000 John Phizackerley 326,664 2 Andrew Baddeley 40,000 Angela Knight 2,150 Roger Perkin 0 Stephen Pull 7,000 David Shalders 4,249 Carol Sergeant 9,038 Edmund Ng 0 1 There have been no changes to the holdings between 31 December 2017 and 13 March 2018.
Termination payments for Andrew Baddeley audited As announced on 3 November 2017, Andrew Baddeley stood down as a Director of the Company with effect from 3 November 2017.
Andrew Baddeley had a six-month notice period which commenced on 3 November 2017.
He continued to work as an employee of the Companyup to 31 December 2017, to ensure a smooth transition.
Andrew Baddeleys employment with the Company ended 31 December 2017.
All payments are in line with the Companys stated Directors Remuneration Policy published in the 2016 Annual Report and set out on pages 83 to 86 and with Executive Directors service agreements and loss of office entitlements on page 88 and were approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017.
Salary and accrued entitlements audited Andrew Baddeley was paid in respect of accrued salary and contractual benefits up to and including 31 December 2017 the Termination Date.
He was also paid in respect of any outstanding accrued but untaken holiday entitlement in accordance with the Companys legal obligations.
PILON Payment in Lieu of Notice audited Andrew Baddeley was paid the sum of 170,441 in lieu of salary and contractual benefits he would have received during the remainder of his six-month contractual notice period subject to deductions for income tax and national insurance contributions.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 79 Annual bonus audited Andrew Baddeley was eligible for a 2017 bonus, subject to assessment of performance, in accordance with the terms outlined in the Executive Directors Bonus Plan, as disclosed in this remuneration report.
Termination Payment audited Andrew Baddeley was paid the sum of 90,000 by way of compensation for loss of employment and to mitigate any claims against the Company.
Long term incentive scheme LTIS audited Andrew Baddeley was granted an Award under the LTIS on 18 May 2016 with a maximum cash value of 245,455.
The Remuneration Committee determined, pursuant to the rules of the LTIS, that the Award would vest once performance has been assessed following the Termination Date, subject to the applicable performance conditions measured to the Termination Date and reduction for time pro-ration from the date of Award to the Termination Date.
Details of the performance outcome and vesting are shown in the table below.
Performance against vesting conditions Amount Relative TSR Average cash Return on Amount vested LTIS Award Value Award Date 50% flow 25% Equity 25% vested total pro-rated 1 2016 245,455 18 May 2016 100% 29.10% TBD 140,578 73,130 1 Time apportionment 592 days 1,138 days.
Transformation Long Term Incentive Plan audited Andrew Baddeley is a participant in the Transformation LTIP, which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, and which has a performance period covering the financial years 2017, 2018 and 2019.
Awards under the Plan are due to vest in 2020.
The Remuneration Committee has determined, in accordance with the Transformation LTIP Plan Rules, that, after application of time-reduction for Andrew Baddeleys reduced period of service during the three-year performance period, he shall retain 17% of the Transformation LTIP Units awarded to him.
These Units remain subject to the normal performance conditions and the Normal Vesting Date under the Transformation LTIP Plan Rules.
Other audited In addition, the Company made a payment to Andrew Baddeleys legal advisers of 7,500 plus VAT.
Andrew Baddeley is also eligible for outplacement support with a value of up to 30,000 plus VAT.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee unaudited Throughout 2017, New Bridge Street, part of Aon Hewitt, was the only external remuneration adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
They advised on aspects of our Remuneration Policy and practice.
Fees payable to New Bridge Street during 2017 amounted to 139,075 net of VAT.
The Committee is satisfied that these fees are appropriate for the work undertaken.
New Bridge Street provide no other services to the Company.
New Bridge Street is appointed by the Remuneration Committee and is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct which requires New Bridge Street to provide objective and impartial advice.
The Remuneration Committee has satisfied itself that the advice provided is independent and objective.
Allen & Overy LLP provided advice on law and regulation in relation to employee incentive matters.
This firm also provided general legal advice to the Company.
Outside directorships unaudited John Phizackerley does not have any outside directorships from which he received any remuneration in 2017.
Andrew Baddeley was a Non-executive Director of Cobalt Insurance Holdings Ltd until 3 August 2017.
He received remuneration from Cobalt Insurance Holdings Ltd of 14,000. www.
com 80 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance graph unaudited A graph depicting the Companys TSR in comparison to other companies in the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts in the nine years to 31 December 2017 is shown below: The Board believes that the above index is most relevant as it comprises listed companies of similar size.
Total shareholder return 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 TP ICAP FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts Source: datastream Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in TP ICAP on 31 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Chief Executive Remuneration History unaudited Total Annual LTI % Remuneration bonus % of of max Year ended Name 000 max payout vesting 1 5 31 December 2017 John Phizackerley 2,324 88% 82% 1 31 December 2016 John Phizackerley 3,381 94% 74% 1 31 December 2015 John Phizackerley 2,250 80% N A 2 31 December 2014 John Phizackerley 720 N A N A 3 Terry Smith 433 N A 31 December 2013 Terry Smith 2,856 51% 4 31 December 2012 Terry Smith 3,153 N A 4 31 December 2011 Terry Smith 4,929 N A 45% 4 31 December 2010 Terry Smith 4,344 N A 4 31 December 2009 Terry Smith 4,652 N A 1 Percentage represents the overall percentage score achieved on individual performance targets.
2 For the 4 month period from 1 September 2014.
3 For the 8 month period from 1 January 2014 31 August 2014.
4 Variable remuneration was uncapped in the years 2009-2012.
5 2017 is estimated based on achievement against the TSR and Cash Flow elements.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Total shareholder return rebased Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 81 Change in Chief Executive Remuneration unaudited % change in annualised % change % change bonus Salary Benefits payment Chief Executive 9% 0% 49% Senior Management 3% N A 5% 1 A large portion of the Groups remuneration is payable to Brokers, who earn a significant portion of their income as contractual bonus based on a formula linked to revenue.
TheRemuneration Committee considered that comparison of the Chief Executives remuneration with that of Senior Management would accordingly be more meaningful than comparison with all employees.
This table shows the change of the Chief Executives fixed and variable remuneration compared on a like for like basis to Senior Management employed throughout 2016 and 2017.
As discussed in last years Remuneration Report, the Chief Executives salary was increased from 550,000 to 600,000 in light of his performance over the previous two years, his enlarged role following the acquisition of ICAP, and external market data.
As the Chief Executive does not receive a pension allowance and benefits are negligible, the Chief Executives total fixed pay remains significantly below the market median.
Relative importance of spend on remuneration unaudited The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend payments: m 2017 2016 % change 1 Employee remuneration 1,134 568 100% 2 Shareholder dividends paid 58 41 41% 1 Employee remuneration includes employers social security costs and pension contributions.
2 Shareholder dividends comprises the dividends paid.
Voting at the 2017 AGM unaudited At the AGM held on 11 May 2017 the following votes were cast in respect of the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Policy: Votes For Against withheld Number % Number % Number Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report 463,702,135 98.66% 6,294,587 1.34% 7,349,418 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy 422,340,996 89.07% 51,852,546 10.93% 3,152,598 1 Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
A Vote withheld is not a vote in law.
2 Votes For includes those giving the Chairman discretion.
2018 AGM unaudited Copies of the Executive Directors service agreements and the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at theregistered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be available for shareholders to view at the 2018 AGM.
com 82 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2018 unaudited Executive Directors John Phizackerley received a salary increase in line with the average salary increase planned for the broader workforce of 3% for2018.
This moved his Base Salary to 620,000 effective 1 January 2018.
The annual bonus will continue to be based on the existing scorecard of financial and strategic performance targets aligned to the integration plan and conduct and risk KPIs, with no change to the maximum bonus opportunities of 2.5 x base salary and 2 x base salary forthe Chief Executive and CFO respectively.
The split between financial and strategic performance targets will, for 2018, be 70% financial targets and 30% strategic targets.
Details of targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the next Remuneration Report.
50% of the total bonus awarded will be deferred into shares vesting after three years.
There will be no further long-term incentive awards made to the CEO during the operation of the Transformation LTIP.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for any new CFO will be disclosed in next years Remuneration Report, once appointed.
Non-executive Directors fees audited Non-executive Director NED fees have been reviewed for 2018, having last been reviewed prior to the acquisition.
The Chairmans fee increased to 250,000 effective 1 November 2017, the NED base fee remains unchanged, with increases made to additional Committee Chairman fees and introduction of Committee membership fees effective 1 November 2017.
These changes take account of market levels and time commitment for the roles.
Following the appointment of NEDs based in the Americas and in Asia, a supplemental fee has been introduced to recognise their additional time commitment and disturbance involved to attend meetings in London.
The NED fees for 2018 are as follows: Fees from Fees up to 1 November 31 October Role 2017 2017 Chairman 250,000 200,000 Base fee 60,000 60,000 Senior Independent Director 10,000 5,000 Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees 20,000 10,000 Membership of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees 10,000 Overseas-based NED supplement 45,000 N A Non-executive Directors received no other benefits or other remuneration other than reimbursement of all reasonable and properly documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and any tax and social costs arising thereon.
NEDs based overseas will be reimbursed for reasonable costs of travel and accommodation for trips to London to attend Board meetings.
Any UK tax liability thereon will be met by the Company.
Some Non-executive Directors acted as trustees of the Companys occupational pension scheme in 2017.
They were entitled to an attendance fee of 1,000 per meeting for this role.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 83 Directors Remuneration Policy unaudited The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and is included here for information only.
The Remuneration Policy table applicable to 2016 can be found in previous copies of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Background In reviewing and approving the general principles of the Companys Remuneration Policy which applies throughout the Group, the Remuneration Committee took account of the Companys goal to become the worlds most trusted source of liquidity in hybrid OTC markets and the best operator in global hybrid voice broking.
The Remuneration Committee was mindful that the Groups strategy to achieve that objective is to continue to develop its business, operating as an intermediary in the worlds major wholesale OTC and exchange traded financial and commodity markets, with the scale and breadth to deliver superior performance and returns, underpinned by strong financial management disciplines and without actively taking credit and market risk.
The Remuneration Committee also took into account general practices in the parts of the financial services sector in which the Company operates, and in particular those of the Companys competitors which include BGC Partners Inc. and Compagnie Financire Tradition.
These practices are characterised by high levels of variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders to pay remuneration in line with market practice in the sectors in which the Company operates.
The Companys Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, motivate and retain employees with the necessary skills and experience to deliver the strategy, in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
Risk The Remuneration Committee considered the relationship between incentives and risk when approving the Remuneration Policy which will apply throughout the Group.
Details of the Groups key risks and risk management are set out in the Strategic report of this Annual Report and Accounts on pages 36 to 41.
The majority of transactions are brokered on a Name Passing basis where the business is not a counterparty to a trade.
Commissions earned on these activities are received monthly in cash.
The business does not take any trading risk and does not hold principal trading positions.
The business only holds financial instruments for identified buyers and sellers in matching trades which are generally settled within one to three days.
The business does not retain any contingent market risk and is not exposed to any material counterparty credit risk.
The business does not have valuation issues in measuring its profits.
The Remuneration Committee also concluded that the Companys Remuneration Policy reflects the risk profile of the Group, is consistent with and promotes sound and effective risk management, and does not encourage risk taking.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys Remuneration Policy is consistent with the measures set out in the Groups compliance manuals relating to conflicts of interest.
The Companys policy is to ensure that variable remuneration is not paid through vehicles or methods that facilitate avoidance of the Remuneration Code.
com 84 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy table The policy set out in this table was approved by shareholders at the May 2017 AGM.
How remuneration supports the Companys short and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework Recovery withholding Fixed remuneration Paid monthly in arrears.
Reviewed periodically to ensure it is not significantly out of line N A None None To provide a level of fixed remuneration with the market.
reflecting the scope of individual responsibilities to attract and retain highcalibre employees.
Benefits Medical cover and participation in any schemes available to all UK employees such as the Groups No new benefits will be None None To provide basic benefits but otherwise lifeassurance and income protection schemes.
introducedduring the term tolimit provision of benefits.
ofthisRemuneration Policy, Relocation or the temporary provision of accommodation may be offered where the Company unlesssuchbenefits are made requires an Executive Director to relocate.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that Executive Directors should receive other reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice.
Pension Membership of a defined contribution pension scheme.
6% of fixed remuneration up to a None None To make basic pension provision.
cap set at 105,600 unless otherwise made available to all UK employees.
Annual discretionary bonus Annual assessment of performance against strategic and financial objectives.
The strategic and The maximum CEO annual Annual strategic and financial targets will Malus and claw-back provisions apply to the whole annual Aim is to motivate and retain Executive financial objectives will be set on an annual basis and disclosed retrospectively.
bonus which enables the Committee to recoup payouts Directors, consistent with the risk appetite under the Plan either by reducing or cancelling any Executive Directors will have a mandatory 50% Bonus Deferral each year such deferral to be The maximum CFO annual The targets will include key financial metrics determined by the Board and thereby to unvested deferred awards or reclaiming amounts paid.
awarded in Company shares with a three-year deferral period.
These shares can be used to meet bonuswill be 2 x base salary.
achieve superior returns for shareholders.
Malus or claw-back may be applied where there is a Itprovides a direct link between Achievement of on-target performance material adverse, misstatement of performance for the the achievement of annual business willresultin 60% payout.
period to which the bonus related event or a material performance targets and reward.
misstatement of results for the period to which the bonus related or, an Executive Directors conduct is found to The shareholding requirements align amount to gross misconduct and or fraud, wilful dishonesty Directors interests with shareholders.
Minimum shareholding Directors must hold a minimum number of the Companys ordinary shares equivalent to 300% of None None None Aligns Directors interests with base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and 200% of base salary for all other Executive Directors shareholdersby focusing on built up over a five year period.
One-off three-year LTIP 2017-2019 linked directly to achievement of strategic targets for CEO 15,000,000 Absolute TSR and 2019 Underlying EPS Malus and claw-back provisions apply to the Transformation LTIP the integration.
Transformation LTIP which enables the Committee Aligns Directors interests with CFO 9,600,000 torecoup payouts under the plan either by reducing shareholdersby focusing on 1 TSR will be measured from Q1 2017 to Q1 2020.
Underlying EPS will be full year 2019 underlying EPS.
TSR conditions 75% of award  returns.
orcancelling any unvested deferred awards or Original award is subject to time Threshold: 8% CAGR increase 25% payout reduction following departure.
Shares will be subject to a holding period and will be released 1 3 in April 2021, 1 3 in April 2022 and Target: 11% CAGR increase 50% payout 1 3 in April 2023.
During the holding period the shares cannot be sold otherthan to cover the cost of Malus or claw-back may be applied where there is a Max: 14% CAGR increase 100% payout any applicable taxes thereon.
material adverse, misstatement of performance for the 2 2019 underlying EPS 25% of award period to which the bonus related event or a material Threshold: 48p 25% payout misstatement of results for the period to which the Target: 54p 50% payout bonusrelated or, if an Executive Directors conduct is Max: 60p 100% payout foundto amount to gross misconduct and or fraud, wilful dishonesty or accounting malfeasance.
Non-executive Directors Fees Paid monthly in arrears.
Periodically benchmarked against other UK listed companies of Aggregate annual fees None None To attract high calibre, experienced comparable size and activities.
Additional fees for additional responsibilities of the Senior as listed in the Articles Non-executive Directors.
Independent Non-executive Director, for chairing each of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration of Association Committees or other services performed such as acting as a trustee of a Company pension scheme.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 85 Policy table The policy set out in this table was approved by shareholders at the May 2017 AGM.
Notes to the Policy table: Performance measures The performance measures attached to the long-term incentive are as follows: Metric Why it is chosen 1 Absolute TSR Aligns with the creation of value for our shareholders through share price growth and dividends.
2 Underlying EPS A key indicator of the underlying profit performance of the Group, reflecting both revenues and costs and taking into account dilution.
The performance measures attached to the annual bonus may vary to align to the Company strategy at that time but will retain an element related to Company profitability.
com 86 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy on Directors remuneration compared with employees generally unaudited As a general rule, the same principles are applied to Directors fixed remuneration, pension contributions and benefits as are applied to employees throughout the Group.
A competitive level of fixed remuneration is paid to all employees taking into account their responsibilities and experience and minimal pension provision and benefits are provided, the Board considering that employees are best placed to determine priorities for funds set aside forremuneration.
There are a number of different bonus schemes in operation throughout the Group for Brokers, Senior Management and other employees.
Brokers bonus schemes are described below: all other bonuses are generally discretionary.
In addition, the Deferred Bonus Plan introduced for SeniorManagers for the 2015 bonus year continued in 2016 and it has again been operated for the 2017 bonus year.
Under this Plan, employees identified as Senior Managers had 20% of their discretionary 2017 bonus award deferred into equity for a three-year period.
The grants of equity are expected to be made in Q2 2018 and are subject to forfeiture, in whole or in part, in the event the employee resigns or employment is terminated for gross misconduct as defined in the Employee Handbook.
112 employees participated in the 2017 Deferred Bonus Plan with participants located in London, New York, New Jersey, Paris, Frankfurt, Sydney and Singapore.
Throughout the annual discretionary bonus review cycle the Group General Counsel and Global Head of Compliance and the Chief Risk Officer are consulted in order to validate that there are no reasons why an employee ear-marked to received a bonus should have their bonus withheld.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that a formal capping of bonuses for Senior Management and Brokers is consistentwith the delivery of enhanced returns to shareholders and accordingly no caps have been introduced on Senior Managements orBrokers bonuses at this time.
We will continue to review this matter in light of any future changes to the Remuneration Code.
Remuneration policies for brokers unaudited The Companys Remuneration Policy for Brokers is based on the principle that remuneration is directly linked to financial performance, generally at a desk team level, and is calculated in accordance with formulae set out in contracts of employment.
These formulae take into account the fixed costs of the Brokers: variable remuneration payments are therefore based on the profits that the Brokers generate for the business together with an assessment of individual performance and conduct against core Group values Honesty, Integrity, Respect and Excellence.
Initial contract payments are only paid upfront when a claw-back provision is included in the contract of employment.
Typically, Brokers receive a fixed salary paid regularly throughout the year, with a significant portion of variable remuneration dependent on their revenue, conduct and performance, which is paid after the revenue has been fully received incash.
Remuneration policies for control functions unaudited The Companys Remuneration Policy for Control Functions is that remuneration is adequate to attract qualified and experienced employees, is in accordance with the achievement of objectives linked to their functions, and is independent of the performance of the business areas they support.
Employees in such functions report through an organisation structure that is separate to and independent from the business units.
Heads of Control Functions are designated as Remuneration Code Staff and accordingly their remuneration is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee as part of the Senior Manager bonus review undertaken in January February each year.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 87 Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy unaudited Total remuneration for the Chief Executive for a minimum, target and maximum performance for 2017, 2018 and 2019 is presented in the chart below: Chief Executive Opportunity under the Directors Remuneration Policy CEO updated for 2018 base salary 17.2m of which LTIP 87% pay-out of 15m only 9% made if at least 1,243m 9.1m of which LTIP pay-out 4% 1 18 of TSR is created of 7.5m only made if at least 1 949m of TSR is created 15 83% 10% 12 7% 9 2.2m 2.2m 1.5m 1.6m 6 71% 72% 60% 61% 0.6m 28% 0.6m 29% 0.6m 39% 40% 3 100% 100% 100% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum 2017 2018 2019 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives 1 Based on illustrative base share price of 4.66.
Minimum includes salary and current benefits only.
Target is based on annual bonus paying out at 60% of maximum.
Long-term incentive is based on the Transformation LTIP paying out at 50% of maximum.
Maximum is based on annual bonus paying out in full.
Long-term incentive is based on the Transformation LTIP paying out in full.
There will be no share price growth as shares will be granted at vest.
com Remuneration m 88 Governance report Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors service agreements and loss of office entitlements unaudited The Chief Executives contract may be terminated by either party on the expiry of six months written notice by either party save in circumstances justifying summary termination or by making a payment in lieu of notice at the Companys election.
The Company will considerthe scope for requiring the Executive Director to mitigate his loss when taking account of all the circumstances surrounding thetermination of employment.
The Executive Director would also be entitled to a payment for accrued but untaken holiday.
The Chief Financial Officers contract may be terminated by either party on the expiry of six months written notice by either party save in circumstances justifying summary termination or by making a payment in lieu of notice at the Companys election.
The Company will consider the scope for requiring the Executive Director to mitigate his loss when taking account of all the circumstances surrounding the termination of employment.
Where the Executive Director is deemed to be a good leaver, the Remuneration Committee may, at its sole discretion, award a part-year bonus for the period worked.
The bonus will be assessed on demonstrated performance over the part-year.
Post-termination restrictive covenants also apply to each Executive Director.
The determination of good leaver status will be determined at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, any employee including the Executive Directors may have additional statutory and or common law rights to certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
When determining payments for loss of office, the Company will take account of all relevant circumstances on a case by case basis including but not limited to : the contractual notice provisions and outstanding holiday: the best interests of the Company: whether the Executive Director has presided over an orderly handover: the contribution of the Executive Director to the success of the Company during their tenure: and the need to compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have or to pay the Executive Directors legal costs on asettlement agreement.
The LTIS rules provide for an award to lapse in all circumstances where an Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment with a Group company other than death, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, in which case any award would vest to the extent that the performance conditions had been met and the extent that the performance period had elapsed.
Under the Transformation LTIP, the full terms and conditions of the awards are contained in the Plan documents.
In the event that an Executive Director leaves employment prior to 31 December 2019, the default position is that they will forfeit participation in the Transformation LTIP.
TheRemuneration Committee can choose to exercise their discretion and consider the employee to be a good leaver.
Good leavers will other than in exceptional circumstances be eligible for a time reduced participation under the Transformation LTIP at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The time-reduced participation level will reflect the period of active employment from 1 January 2017 to the Termination Date subject to relevant shareholder and proxy guidelines.
Any vesting will be subject to the performance conditions and shares awarded at the Normal Vesting Date subject to the Rules of the Transformation LTIP.
Non-executive Directors appointment letters unaudited The Non-executive Directors serve under letters of appointment which are terminable on the earliest of the Director not being re-elected at anAGM, removed as a Director or required to vacate office under the Articles of Association, on resignation, at the request of the Board or subject to six months notice for the Chairman or three months notice for the other Non-executive Directors.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 89 Recruitment of Directors unaudited The Remuneration Committees approach to setting remuneration for new Executive Directors is to ensure that the Company pays market rates, with reference to internal pay levels, theexternal market, location of the Executive and remuneration received from the previous employer.
Salary will be provided in line with market rates, and the Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to offer appropriate pension andbenefit arrangements, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role in exceptional circumstances only.
Ongoing variable pay awards for a newly appointed Executive Director will be as described in the Policy table, subject to the same maximumopportunities.
It is not currently intended that future service contracts for Executive Directors would contain terms differing materially from those summarised in this report, including with respect to notice provisions.
The Remuneration Committee may consider offering additional cash or share-based payments to buy-out existing awards forfeited by a new Executive Director when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Any such buy-out payments would mirror so far as possible the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer.
The Remuneration Committee may avail itself of the current Listing Rule exemption to make such buy-out awards where doing so is necessary to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of the relevant individual.
Relocation payments may also be set, within limits to be determined by the Remuneration Committee, where considered appropriate and in the Companys best interests to do so.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual commitments made priorto their promotion to Executive Director.
The fee payable to a new Non-executive Director will be in line with the fee structure for Non-executive Directors in place at the date of appointment.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Stephen Pull Chairman Remuneration Committee 13 March 2018 www.
