Governance Report 62 Remuneration Committee Report Annette Kelleher Chair, Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, 2017 performance and remuneration I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for 2017.
Against a backdrop of uncertain political and macro-economic Our Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at our AGM in May conditions the Company has recorded excellent results.
More details 2017 and you will find a summary of the policy on pages 72 to 76. about the Companys operational and financial performance can be found on pages 13 to 23.
This Policy was strongly supported by shareholders, with more than 93% of the votes in favour of it.
This very strong performance is reflected in the incentive remuneration outturns for 2017.
In summary, the Executive Directors Our revised Directors Remuneration Policy earned bonuses of 94% of salary.
More information in relation to the When reviewing our policy, prior to the AGM in May 2017, we detail of the 2017 annual bonus is included on page 65. considered and reviewed a number of items, including the Companys short and long-term strategy, its overall performance and the The performance period for LTIP awards granted in 2015 ended on remuneration arrangements already in place.
We were also mindful 31 December 2017.
Two criteria were applied to these awards, 50% of general guidance from shareholders and good remuneration being a performance condition based on TSR growth compared to practice.
the FTSE SmallCap and 50% being growth in UEPS.
Following an assessment of the performance conditions, the awards vested at On balance, we took the view that the existing remuneration 100% more information is given on page 66. framework continued to effectively support the delivery of the 2018 base salary and fees business strategy and the ongoing creation of shareholder value.
Our usual practice is to review Executive Directors salaries on an Therefore, we did not make any structural changes to our Policy, annual basis, with increases typically in line with the increases but we chose to modify some elements of the Policy to support the awarded to the wider workforce.
For 2018, we are following this business performance and succession planning over the next three principle and our Executive Director salary increases of 3% are in line years.
Full details can be found on pages 69 and 70.
However, we did recognise both the growth of the Group over the last few years, as well as certain shareholder expectations of us as a The Non-executive director fees have been increased by FTSE 250 company.
Reflecting the significant increase in scale and approximately 3% with effect from 1 January 2018.
Following a complexity of the Company, both in the UK and internationally over review which indicated that the Chairmans fee was positioned below the last few years the overall maximum annual bonus opportunity the market competitive range and taking into account the increase was increased from 100% to 125% of base salary under the new in the scale and complexity of the business and the scope of the Policy in 2017.
Given the continued strong performance of the role for a FTSE 250 business, the Board approved an increase in the business, the maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors Chairmans fee from 147,500 to 165,000 in line with the lower end in 2018 will be 125% of base salary with up to 20% of the bonus of the market range.
Details on other Non-executive fees are set out earned being delivered in the form of shares that are deferred for two on pages 68 and 71. years.
Further recognising the Companys growth and success, the Policy Annette Kelleher permits the Committee to grant LTIP awards of up to 150% of base salary.
However, 2018 LTIP awards for the Executive Directors will Chair, Remuneration Committee continue to be 125% of base salary and will be subject to a further 7 March 2018 two year holding period after vesting.
In addition, we also increased shareholding requirements significantly for our Executive Directors, from 100% to 200% of base salary to contribute further to robust shareholder alignment.
We also formally introduced malus and clawback into both the annual bonus and long term incentive plans.
