Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Report of the Remuneration Committee Roger Yates Chair of the Remuneration Committee Our remuneration policy supports and is aligned to the business strategy, and the remuneration outcomes for 2017 reflect the strong performance of the business.
ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE IN SUMMARY Contents To determine and review the remuneration policy for the Page Executives including Code Staff : Section 1 Remuneration Overview 98 To review and approve the implementation and operation Section 2 of the remuneration policy: Directors Remuneration Report 100 To determine the discretionary bonus schemes for Section 3 Executives for each year and review performance against Summary of the Remuneration Policy 110 these: To determine the design and targets for any performance related plans and the grant of awards made under these plans: To set termination arrangements for Executives: To monitor and review the remuneration policies and trends for employees across the Group: and To appoint, set the terms of engagement for, and review the performance of, remuneration advisers.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE Members Attendance Joined Roger Yates Chair 4 4 1 January 2014 Simon Jeffreys 4 4 1 January 2014 Baroness Wheatcroft 4 4 3 May 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 97 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued SECTION 1: REMUNERATION OVERVIEW Changes to Executive Team As announced in February 2017, David Bellamy stepped down from Introduction the Board of Directors with effect from 31 December 2017 and On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Committee and the Board, further details in relation to his new role with the Company are set out I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2017. on pages 101 and 102 of this Report.
As previously announced, At the AGM held on 4 May 2017, shareholders approved the Andrew Croft was appointed as the new CEO on 1 January 2018 on a remuneration policy Policy with 99.6% of votes cast in favour.
No base salary of 520,000, the same salary as that of the previous CEO changes are proposed to the Policy for 2018 and therefore there will and less than the market median for companies of our size.
Further only be a single advisory vote at the 2018 AGM to cover this annual details of his remuneration package are set out on page 109. statement together with the Annual Report.
The full Policy can be found on our website at www.
co. uk and a summary is set out on Engagement with Shareholders and Best Practice pages 110 to 113 together with details as to how each element of the The Committee is regularly updated on the latest views of major Policy supports the strategy.
shareholders and investor representative bodies and best practice.
Any views expressed by shareholders at general meetings of the Review of 2017 Company or otherwise will be considered by the Committee as part 2017 has been another year of strong performance and our Executives of any review of the Policy.
The Committee understands the remuneration for 2017 reflects this.
Based on the three-year important and increasing focus on clear and transparent disclosure performance to the end of 2017, 87.94% of the Executive Directors of remuneration outcomes demonstrating the alignment of Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2015 will vest in March 2018, remuneration and performance, and the Committee believes it as a result of relative Total Shareholder Return TSR being between provides complete disclosure in this area.
median and upper quartile, and Earnings Per Share EPS growth being above the upper end of the performance range set by the Committee.
Corporate Developments and Regulatory Change The Committee is closely monitoring developments in remuneration This Report includes disclosure of performance targets and the regulations from European and UK authorities including the recent outcome for the annual bonus for 2017.
The Committee determined proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and also, that 96.67% of the maximum annual bonus should be payable for 2017, more generally, in relation to the remuneration landscape and certain reflecting the strong financial results for 2017 and excellent progress corporate events that some companies have faced.
The Policy is against strategic objectives set by the Committee at the start of the designed to reward performance and avoid payment for failure and year, which are fully explained in the Report.
50% of the bonus is provides appropriate flexibility particularly in relation to clawback deferred into shares for three years.
malus in exceptional circumstances as set out in the Policy.
However, should there be a need to amend policy or practice in the Remuneration for 2018 future, in light of these regulatory developments, the Committee will The Committee considered the overall remuneration arrangements for undertake consultation with major shareholders in advance of any the Executive Directors in 2018 in accordance with the Policy and has proposed changes.
decided to award an increase of 3% in the base salaries of the Executive Directors for 2018 which is in line with the overall increase of Summary base salaries for the workforce.
After this increase, the base salaries The Policy supports our corporate objectives and the remuneration remain below market median for a company of our size both in awards reflect the strong performance of the Company and Financial Services and General Industry.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity and maximum performance I encourage you to support the remuneration resolution to be share awards for 2018 will remain at the same levels as 2017. proposed at the next AGM.
If, in the meantime, you have any Following a review of the fee levels for our Non-executive Directors, questions regarding remuneration then my colleagues on the the fees of the Chair for 2018 will increase to 205,000 4.8% Committee and I will be pleased to address them.
increase, the base fees of the Non-executive Directors will increase to 65,000 5.3% increase, the Committee Chair fees will increase to 21,750 5.6% increase and the Senior Independent Director fees will Roger Yates increase to 5,855 5.3% increase.
Following these increases, the On behalf of the Remuneration Committee fees remain below the financial sector benchmarks.
27 February 2018 Shareholding Requirements and Pension Contribution Changes to Practice The Committee has decided, with effect from 2018, to change the practice in relation to the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors so that 200% of salary has to be held in the Companys shares rather than 150% in the Companys shares and the remaining 50% in the Companys shares and or one or more St. Jamess Place fund portfolios.
Further details are set out on page 107.
The practice in relation to the pension contribution for Executive Directors has also been changed so that, for any new Executive Director joining the Board with effect from the 2018 AGM, the pension contribution shall be aligned to that of the workforce.
Please see page 110 for further details.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 98 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE How did we perform in the year?
Financial Strategic EEV Operating Profit Number of clients 11% Number of advisers 7% Funds under management 20% 918.5m How did we perform over 3 years?
Total Shareholder Return TSR Average annual adjusted Earnings Per Share Growth EPS Average annual adjusted EPS Growth excluding unwind of the weighting 1 3 including the unwind of the discount rate in excess of RPI discount rate in excess of RPI weighting 1 3 weighting 1 3 TSR ranking of the Company compared to the EPS growth and % of award vesting EPS growth and % of award vesting Comparator Group and % of award vesting Actual: 35.6% p. a.
Upper quartile or above 16% or above Actual: Actual: 32nd 16% or above 100% pay-out 24.1% p. a. out of 85 100% pay-out 100% pay-out companies Median 5% or above 5% or above 25% pay-out 25% pay-out 25% pay-out Below median Below 5% Below 5% 0% pay-out 0% pay-out 0% pay-out For more information: see pages 102 to 104.
How is our Executive Director pay weighted towards performance?
Change in Remuneration Change in Total Dividend from 2016 to 2017 from 2016 to 2017 2,538,709 David Bellamy -4% 1,797,606 Andrew Croft -2% 30% Ian Gascoigne 1,842,104 -3% David Lamb -2% 1,799,696 Base salary Benefits Annual bonus Long-term incentives Pension n n n n n For more information: see page 101.
How Executive pay supports alignment with shareholders 50% 100% 200% 50% Of bonus deferred and Of PSP awards have to Shareholding Of all vested shares from held in the Companys be held for an extra two Requirement PSP are required to be held shares for three years years post vesting % of salary until shareholding requirement is met For more information: see page and cannot be sold other than to settle 150% in shares and 50% in fund portfolios.
110 to 112. tax on vesting or exercise.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 99 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued SECTION 2: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This Directors Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM.
This part of the Report explains the work of the Remuneration Committee and how we implemented our Policy during 2017.
The information on pages 101 to 110 has been audited where indicated.
Remuneration Committee Role, Activities and Performance of the Committee The Committees primary purpose is to ensure that there is a clear link between reward and performance and that the policy structure and levels of remuneration for both Executive Directors and FCA Remuneration Code Staff Code Staff is appropriate.
In particular, the Committee reviews the list of those employees who are considered to be Code Staff and monitors compliance with the Remuneration Codes in relation to that population.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 97.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website www.
The key topics that were discussed by the Committee during 2017 were: January February October KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS KEY TOPICS Performance of Executives against Approving the following in relation to Presentations from firms tendering Executives: for remuneration advisory work.
Initial proposals for 2017 annual bonus for Executives.
2017 financial and strategic Update on performance by objectives.
Final Total Shareholder Return results, Earnings Per Share results The total vesting amount in Update on performance against relation to 2014 PSP awards.
and proposed 2014 PSP Award for The conditions to be met in Approving remuneration packages Executives.
2017 salary reviews for Executives relation to 2017 PSP awards for Executives changing roles in 2017 base salaries.
Reviewing and approving the 2016 Reviewing the Committees Directors Remuneration Report.
coverage of its terms of reference Update on regulatory developments.
Risks and mitigants in relation to Remuneration Policies and their Reviewing the Committees terms of reference and 2018 forward agenda.
Note: Executives includes Executive Directors and Code Staff There were two further ad hoc meetings to finalise the remuneration packages and requirements in relation to the executive changes.
In addition, in September, a remuneration workshop was held and attended by the Committee together with the Chair of the Board, the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Financial Officer.
The purpose of this workshop was to review and discuss our current remuneration structure, particularly in the context of the remuneration and regulatory environment.
The Committees effectiveness was reviewed by the Board as part of its overall assessment of its effectiveness see page 81 and it remains satisfied that, as a whole, the Committee has the experience and qualifications necessary to successfully perform its role.
Committee Membership and Attendance in 2017 This is set out on page 97.
As mentioned above, there were two further ad hoc Committee meetings and these were attended by all the Committee members.
The Chair of the Board also attended all the Committee meetings during the year and the CEO and CFO were invited to attend appropriate agenda items.
No Director was present when their own remuneration was considered or agreed.
Advisers to the Committee The Committee appointed independent remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc, to advise on remuneration matters generally.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct which requires its advice to be impartial and NBS has confirmed to the Committee its compliance with the Code.
The total fees paid to NBS for the advice provided to the Committee during the year were 54,549 excluding VAT.
Fees are charged on a time spent basis.
NBS has not provided any other services to the Company during the year.
However, certain subsidiaries of Aon plc, the parent company of NBS, have provided some investment advisory services to certain subsidiaries in the Group during 2017 for which the fees were 50,000 excluding VAT.
The Committee has been advised of the basis on which NBS is organised and managed as part of the wider Aon organisation and the basis on which its staff are remunerated and is satisfied that the additional services provided by other Aon group companies did not in any way compromise the independence of advice provided by NBS to the Committee.
Towards the end of 2017, the Committee undertook a review of its advisers which included a robust formal tendering process.
Following this process, NBS was reappointed as the advisers to the Committee for 2018, with the Committee remaining satisfied that NBS advice was and is objective and independent.
Given his connection with Aon plc, Simon Jeffreys excluded himself from the review process and the decision to reappoint NBS.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 100
