Directors Remuneration Report Part 1 Annual statement from the Chair of the committee The Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, Members and meetings in 2017 Member Meetings As the Chair of Cairns remuneration committee, I am pleased to a since attended %   x Jackie Sheppard At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders were asked to Chair vote separately on our Annual Report on Remuneration for the year % %  { x F aX strong support for both resolutions shown by the Companys members.
x Ian Tyler The overall executive remuneration framework that was approved at a remaining part of the year and the committee continues to believe that x Peter Kallos e not being asked to approve a new Directors Remuneration Policy at the e:a B x Nicoletta Giadrossi { { which contains this years Annual Report on Remuneration, then goes e   e:a a and key remuneration decisions The work of the committee in 2017 was conducted against a backdrop of a year in which the Company fulfilled its business with appropriate exposure to material frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining balance sheet strength and financial flexibility.
The key remuneration-related decisions made by the committee in 2017 are described in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 101 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Base salary increases e c I James Smith.
The above increase was consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees at that time.
made under the annual bonus scheme to the executive directors during the year as a percentage of annual I e:a : that this threshold was not reached by the above bonuses, they were paid out wholly in cash.
8 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP XF{ k this period, the Companys Total Shareholder Return was sufficient to place it between the second and third of the shares over which they were granted.
As part of the above vesting process, the LTIPs rules also required the committee to review the Companys overall performance over the three years from the grant of the awards.
After due and careful consideration, the committee concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in such overall performance during that time.
Long Term Incentive Plan 8 e:a adoption of new arrangement and XF{ a initial awards pursuant to its rules.
Details of the grants made to executive directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
F years from grant before any part of these awards vest and highlights the fact that, thereafter, a two year holding period will normally be operated before the individuals are entitled to acquire any of their vested shares i. e. in the ordinary course, executive directors will normally have to wait a minimum of five years XF{ Non-executive directors fees and % Chairmans fee 8 I The fees paid to non-executive directors were also reviewed during the year by the Board excluding 8 I B the additional fee payable for chairing the audit and or remuneration committees.
In summary: I 8k directors came into effect: : U{F appropriately the Companys strategic priorities for the period: the proportion of the Chief Executives and CFOs annual bonus for the year that will be determined by reference to the above Group KPI XF{ The committee is aware that the remuneration landscape for listed companies is likely to evolve over the next year as a result, for example, of the U : e governance and will continue to monitor developments, and consider their implications for Cairn, as they arise.
Feedback on Directors Remuneration Report We welcome questions and feedback from all those interested on both the content and style of this report.
M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC Remuneration Committee Chair a {X e  e 102 Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction e e:a a %  { specifies the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as the recruitment of new directors and or the making of any payments for loss of office, became effective immediately on receipt of that e X a : e    %  { { B e  e Purpose and role of the remuneration committee The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Groups PDMRs Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities.
Within the terms of this agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director and the PDMRs: determining the level of awards made under the Companys LTIPs and employee share award schemes and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining the KPIs used to measure performance for the annual bonus scheme: determining the bonuses payable under the Companys annual bonus scheme: determining the vesting levels of awards under the Companys LTIPs and employee share award schemes: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs.
The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual remuneration amounts for such individuals.
This oversight role allows the committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the executive directors and PDMRs.
For example, the committee considers the standard increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting executive directors base salaries for the same period.
The committee operates within written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the Companys website.
Consultation with relevant stakeholders The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its mandate, it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders in the business.
% %  { e:a a e features highlighted by shareholders during this process including bonus deferral, extended holding periods for LTIP awards and increased shareholding guidelines were incorporated into the final proposals.
Historically, the committee has not undertaken a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Groups policy on senior management remuneration.
Members of staff are, however, regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety of matters, including executive pay, via a degree of engagement with the wider workforce on the Companys pay policies and practices.
103 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Overview of current remuneration policy a it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Groups strategy to deliver value for stakeholders by building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets, whilst offering a competitive package against the market.
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairns directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: Policy Table elements of directors remuneration package Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Base salary Helps recruit and retain Normally reviewed annually Whilst the committee has not set None employees.
with changes taking effect on a monetary maximum, annual 1 January and or when otherwise increases will not exceed the level Reflects individual experience appropriate, including when of standard increase awarded and role.
an individual changes position to other employees except that or responsibility.
more significant increases may be awarded at the discretion of the Aim is to provide a competitive committee in connection with: base salary relative to the market although the committee does not an increase in the scope and place undue emphasis on responsibility of the individuals benchmarking data and exercises role: or its own judgement in determining the individuals development and pay levels.
performance in the role following appointment: or Decision influenced by: a re-alignment with market rates.
role and experience: average change in broader workforce salaries: individual performance: and remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies.
Benefits Helps recruit and retain Directors are entitled to a Company cars up to a value of None employees.
70,000 or, as an alternative, an 8 U annual car allowance of up to elements include a company car, 8,771 may be provided.
Whilst the permanent health insurance, committee has not set a monetary private health insurance, maximum for other benefits, they death-in-service benefit and will be in line with the market as a gym and fitness allowance.
The committee reserves the right to provide further benefits where this is appropriate in the individuals particular circumstances for example costs associated with relocation as a result of the directors role with the Company.
Executive directors are also eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
{X e  e 104 Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of Bonuses are awarded by reference a The measures and targets annual KPIs and or other to performance against specific applicable to the annual bonus objectives linked to the targets measured over a single scheme and the different Companys strategic goals.
weightings ascribed to each of them are set annually by the Any amounts awarded to an committee in order to ensure they individual under this arrangement are relevant to participants and take account of the most full shortly after the assessment of up-to-date business plan and the performance targets has been strategy.
The remainder of the bonus will be deferred into an All, or a significant majority, of the award of shares for a three year bonus opportunity will normally period, or such other period as be determined by reference to determined by the committee.
performance against demanding Group KPIs such as: Annual bonuses may be subject to clawback, and the extent to exploration and new venture which deferred share awards vest objectives: may be reduced, where, in the development and production period of three years from the end targets: and of the relevant financial year, the H SE.
committee becomes aware of Any remaining part of a a material misstatement of the directors bonus will normally Companys financial results or be based on the achievement an error in the calculation of of personal objectives relevant performance targets which, had to that individuals role within it been known at the relevant time, the business.
would have reasonably been A payment scale ranging from expected to have resulted in a lower award being made.
for different levels of achievement against each KPI and or other objective is specified by the committee at the outset of each year.
The committee has discretion to vary the measures and weightings during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure.
The committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period.
105 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance 2017 Long Term Incentivises executive directors The 2017 LTIP was established by c Vesting of awards granted under Incentive Plan or to deliver long-term the Company following receipt of the 2017 LTIP will be determined 2017 LTIP performance for the benefit of the necessary shareholder by the growth in Total Shareholder shareholders, thereby aligning approvals at the 2017 AGM.
Return TSR of Cairn over a the interests of the directors with performance period of at least Awards will normally be made those of the Companys three years.
annually with vesting dependent investors.
on achievement of performance e conditions chosen by the core award will be subject to committee that are measured over TSR performance measured a period of at least three years.
relative to a comparator group selected by the committee, with All awards which vest will normally be subject to a holding period in terms of which the relevant shares upper quartile performance.
will only be released become exercisable after a further period of In order to focus on exploration at least two years has expired from success which leads to a material the vesting date.
increase in the share price, once performance for the core award The committee reviews the has been fully achieved, an quantum of awards annually, taking into account factors such as market of salary can be earned if absolute rates and overall remuneration.
TSR growth over the same Awards may be subject to performance period equals or clawback where, in the period of three years from the end of No part of any award will vest the relevant performance period, unless the committee is satisfied the committee becomes aware that there has been an overall of a material misstatement of the satisfactory and sustained Companys financial results or improvement in the performance an error in the calculation of of the Company as a whole over performance conditions which, the performance period.
had it been known at the relevant time, would have reasonably been Although the committees expected to have resulted in a intention is that the above lower vesting being determined.
conditions will be applied to LTIP awards granted in 2018, it may decide to impose different but equally challenging conditions in future years.
The committee will consult with major shareholders prior to making any such decision and will ensure that the vesting of under the LTIP continues to be determined by reference to the Companys TSR performance.
c Vesting is determined by 2009 Long Term Incentivises executive directors It is not proposed that further comparing the growth in Total Incentive Plan to deliver superior levels of awards will be granted to executive Shareholder Return TSR of or 2009 LTIP long-term performance for the directors under this plan.
Exceptional circumstances Cairn over a performance period benefit of shareholders, thereby Awards vest dependent on of three years from grant with aligning the interests of the achievement of performance the TSR of a comparator group directors with those of the conditions measured over a of international oil and gas Companys investors.
companies that is selected by the k committee prior to each grant, shares to which the holder has become entitled are released at upper decile and on a straight become exercisable immediately, line sliding scale in between.
In order to encourage exceptional being released becoming performance, the above condition exercisable after a further period provides that, at upper decile of one year.
levels, a multiplier of up to 1.33 Awards may be subject to is applied if absolute TSR growth clawback where, in the period of three years from the end of the more.
It also states that no part relevant performance period, the of any award will vest unless committee becomes aware of the committee is satisfied that a material misstatement of the there has been an overall Companys financial results satisfactory and sustained or an error in the calculation improvement in the performance of performance conditions.
of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
{X e  e 106 Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Share Incentive Encourages a broad range The Company established an HM Participation limits are those set None Plan or SIP of employees to become Revenue and Customs approved U long-term shareholders.
share incentive plan in April 2010. to time.
These limits are currently It allows the Company to provide as follows: eligible employees, including the { executive directors, with some per tax year can be deducted or all of the following benefits: from salary.
partnership shares acquired Matching shares: up to two using deductions from salary: matching shares for every one matching shares awarded to partnership share purchased.
those employees who purchase 8 partnership shares on the in each tax year.
basis of a ratio specified by the Company: and free shares.
Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period.
The Company operates a defined None contribution group personal of basic salary on behalf of U executive directors or pays scheme is non-contributory and them a cash equivalent.
U including the executive directors, are eligible to participate.
The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including executive directors.
Where an executive director has an individual personal pension plan or overseas equivalent, the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement.
If an executive directors pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Companys contribution or the balance thereof is paid in the form of additional salary.
Non-executive Helps recruit and retain Non-executive directors fees are Companys Articles of Association None directors fees high-quality, experienced considered annually and are set place a limit on the aggregate individuals.
by the executive members of the annual level of non-executive Board and the Chairman taking directors and Chairmans fees Reflects time commitment into account a range of relevant currently 900,000. and role.
factors including: market practice: time commitment: and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the audit and remuneration committees.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
107 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Chairmans fees Helps recruit and retain the The Chairmans fee is considered Companys Articles of Association None relevant individual.
annually and is determined in light place a limit on the aggregate of market practice, the time annual level of non-executive Reflects time commitment.
commitment and responsibilities directors and Chairmans fees associated with the role and other currently 900,000. relevant factors.
Expenses incurred in the performance of the Chairmans duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
Notes: e % Participation in the LTIP is typically aimed at the executive directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees are eligible to participate in the Employee e A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay.
 XF{ XF{ of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations.
Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate including replacing it with another organisation.
XF{ XF{ challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and where appropriate those areas that the relevant individual can directly influence.
F{ F{ arrangement, the Company has decided that it is currently not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it, although the committee retains the discretion to apply performance conditions to future awards.
Common terms of share awards Awards under any of the Companys discretionary share plans referred to in this report may: be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in other such form that the committee determines has the same economic effect: have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the committee if an event occurs which causes the committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under the award that vest up to the time of vesting or, where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: be settled in cash at the committees discretion: and be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
Legacy awards The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the a ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
{X e  e 108 Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy Cairns pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives.
In the chart 3,000,000 2,803,417 2,500,000 50% 1,823,764 1,820,803 2,000,000 34% 1,500,000 1,184,667 50% 26% 34% 28% 1,000,000 682,668 444,417 26% 28% 500,000 38% 24% 100% 100% 38% 24% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Chief Executive CFO Fixed Elements Annual Variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: and pension calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary.
The on-target scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation.
In x XF{ Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an on-target amount, the assumed levels for this scenario are: XF{ value of an LTIP award for the purposes of the Companys share-based payment charge: and The maximum columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full, namely an annual XF{ For the purposes of valuing the LTIP and deferred bonus awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart.
Recruitment policy Base salaries Salaries for any new director hires including internal promotions will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn.
Legal fees and other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
Variable pay For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Companys existing policy.
The committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer.
The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone.
Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
109 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Chairman and non-executive directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account a range of relevant factors including market practice, time commitment and the responsibilities associated with the role.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Executive directors service contracts The current executive directors service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Salary, pension and benefits.
Remuneration Company car or cash allowance.
Private health insurance for director and dependants.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in deferred bonus, LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules.
1 Notice period Termination payment See separate disclosure below.
% Restrictive covenants Note: business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The executive directors service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Exit payment policy for executive directors Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individuals service contract for the notice period.
Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
The committee will have the authority to settle legal claims against the Group e. g. for unfair dismissal, discrimination or whistleblowing that arise on termination.
The committee may also authorise the provision of outplacement services and pay reasonable legal expenses associated with the termination.
On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year.
The bonus paid would reflect the Companys and the individuals performance during that period.
However, any bonus payable in cash and or share awards as determined by the committee on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year.
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested share awards granted pursuant to the Companys deferred bonus arrangements will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, retirement with the agreement of the Company, or in any other circumstances determined by the committee other than where an individual has been summarily dismissed in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will normally continue to vest at the end of the original vesting period.
The committee may determine that a deferred bonus award should vest before the normal time in certain circumstances, for example where an individual has died.
The committee also has the discretion to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver.
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive XF{ XF{ B XF{ x employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will normally continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
The committee may determine that an award should vest before the normal time in certain circumstances, for example where an individual has died.
It is the remuneration committees normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
Any holding period attached to the share awards would normally continue to apply.
{X e  e 110 F XF{ options, become exercisable on the original timescales.
These awards will, however, lapse where cessation occurs due to the individuals gross misconduct, or if the committee considers it appropriate, the individuals bankruptcy.
The committee has the discretion to accelerate the release 8 XF{ employment, awards will normally be released on cessation of employment.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice.
It was not included in the contract of the CFO that was entered into on his Chief Executive.
In the event of a change of control or winding up of the Company, treatment of share awards will be in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control.
If there is a demerger or special dividend, the committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis as for a change of control.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid.
These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Companys directors.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Companys share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction e   % %  { F F  e:a a The Companys auditors are required to report to Cairns shareholders on the auditable parts of this Annual Report on Remuneration which have been highlighted as such below and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations e j Members of the remuneration committee The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows: M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the committee : I ain McLaren: I an Tyler: Peter Kallos: and c : I The individuals who served on the committee, each of whom is an independent non-executive director of the Company, had no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement Internal assistance provided to the committee The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals.
The Chief Executive is not involved in any discussions in respect of his own remuneration.
During the year, the committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the company secretary.
111 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued External assistance provided to the committee As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.
During the year, it received the following assistance: Assistance provided to the Other services provided to the Adviser 8 New Bridge Street Appointed by the committee to 19,455 Provided advice on various aspects give periodic advice on various of remuneration practice across aspects of the directors the Group.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and provided support on a number of miscellaneous remuneration related projects including the formulation of the new policy approved at the 2017 AGM.
Deloitte LLP Appointed by the Companys 18,699 Provided advice on various aspects management team but provided of remuneration practice across assistance to the committee in the Group.
relation to the design, communication and implementation of the new policy approved at the 2017 AGM.
Ernst & Young LLP Appointed by the Company to N A no advice provided Internal auditors of the Company carry out an independent to the committee throughout the year.
verification of its achievement against performance conditions applicable to the Companys LTIPs and share option schemes.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to 24,213 General legal services to the Group carry out regular calculations in throughout the year.
relation to the LTIP performance conditions.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Notes: spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter.
"c e B X e c % XX{  : U Statement of shareholder voting at general meetings The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting s at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration Policy: Number of votes Date of general ""For"" and Number of votes Total number of Number of votes Description of resolution meeting ""Discretionary"" ""Against"" votes cast ""Withheld"" % Remuneration Report xx To approve Directors Remuneration Policy xx Note: e The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and gave due consideration to any concerns raised by investors who did not support the resolutions."
{X e  e 112 z % a I a : k e e   % as good leavers for the purposes of the Companys incentive schemes and were, therefore, allowed to retain their outstanding awards under the XF{ % x sections of this part of the report.
c % The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories.
Long-Term Total Salary Benefits Pension SIP Bonus Incentive Remuneration Executive directors Fixed elements of pay Financial year Salary and fees Benefits Pension SIP Fixed element subtotal Directors Simon Thomson James Smith Pay for performance Annual bonus...
Performance element Financial year paid in cash deferred into shares... total bonus Long-term incentives subtotal Total remuneration Directors Simon Thomson James Smith Notes: x e F{ 8 F{ 8 XF{ 8 XF{ 8 % any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Companys remuneration policy.
The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances.
113 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-executive directors Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance Fixed Performance Financial Salary and element Long-term element year fees Benefits Pension subtotal Bonus incentives subtotal Total remuneration Directors Ian Tyler Todd Hunt Iain McLaren Alexander Berger M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Keith Lough Peter Kallos Nicoletta Giadrossi Notes: e e   I F Iain McLaren and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively.
c : I B TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay Introduction 8 F 8 k : { F 8 F 8 k : { F exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Cairn.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive during the same nine-year period.
z 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 FTSE 250 Cairn FTSE 350 Oil & Gas {X e  e 114 Total remuneration of Chief Executive during the same nine-year period Annual variable element award rates Long term incentive vesting rates for Total remuneration of Chief Financial year Chief Executive Executive opportunity award level Simon Thomson Simon Thomson Simon Thomson Simon Thomson Simon Thomson Simon Thomson Simon Thomson Sir Bill Gammell N A Sir Bill Gammell Sir Bill Gammell Notes:  : I X % : I B % : Percentage annual change in Chief Executives remuneration elements compared to all Group employees compares it to the average percentage change for all the Groups employees in respect of that same period.
salary taxable benefits annual bonus Chief Executive All Group employees Note: F e:a : B % I Annual salary Annual salary Job title xx xx xx Current directors Simon Thomson Chief Executive James Smith CFO The increases shown in the above table for both Simon Thomson and James Smith were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase I e %  { : U of senior executives on behalf of all qualifying employees.
The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Companys pension arrangements.
James Smith is a member of the Company scheme and, during the year, received Company contributions up to his statutory annual allowance.
% arrangements have already reached the relevant lifetime limit.
% x 115 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued % {%a 8 measures.
Individual and project-based performance was measured through the Companys performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs.
Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and achievement levels is set out below.
:UzF U{F Weighting Bonus awarded KPI remuneration committee Purpose U{F Measurement of maximum opportunity decision Deliver exploration and appraisal success Grow the reserves and Successfully drill, evaluate % c c Partially resources base to and flow test appraisal delivered safely, ahead of schedule achieved provide a basis for future wells on the SNE field and in a timely manner: e8 growth.
safely and cost effectively I ntegrate data into All data was integrated and has to allow preparation of subsurface models and defined the first phase of the the Evaluation Report refine the reservoir basis development: and update estimate of of design: and A resources audit was carried resources and capital required to develop resources estimate, The final phase of appraisal on SNE the field.
phasing of capital and resulted in a slight narrowing of the valuations.
x Discover commercial D evelop an acreage An acreage retention strategy was hydrocarbons.
retention strategy for developed in Senegal.
Board and Senegal: and JV support successfully obtained Efficiently discover for additional contingent funds for commercial quantities of  8ec hydrocarbons through x maturation and drilling of well, SNE North exploration well select exploration and all Senegal and Druid Dromberg appraisal wells across Ireland : and the portfolio.
No commercial hydrocarbons {X e  e 116 U{F Weighting Bonus awarded KPI remuneration committee Purpose U{F Measurement of maximum opportunity decision Portfolio management Active portfolio Develop an inventory and Secure or mature six or Secured two blocks in the Mexico Fully management.
timeline of exploration and more new independent X  a achieved appraisal opportunities, opportunities from within prospects Maximon and Kukulkan including prospects and or outwith the portfolio and delivered draft of the leads which meet Cairns that meet the businesss exploration plan to the JV: technical and commercial investment criteria: Completed two farm-ins in Ireland criteria.
Successfully integrate % new licences and Completed one farm-in in Norway: document a licence Secured two new licences in the management plan for e{e c Matured the Inca, Stjerneskudd work programme and and Lynhaug and took over budget process: and operatorship of Lynhaug Ensure the business prospects in Norway for drilling holds sufficient more and obtained JV approval: than four drillable e U potentially drillable Offshore Exploration Licence prospects by the year Round: end.
Took over operatorship of Ekland in U Licence management plans were developed.
Deliver operational excellence Deliver operational Successfully progress Projects and products Catcher Successful completion Partially excellence in all 2017 the development and delivered to the quality } achieved activities.
production projects against required, on schedule 8{k key milestones, including and within budget: and departed Singapore on schedule capex, opex and sales Ensure projects remain k volume targets.
Progress within capital guidance % North Sea development and first oil schedule marketing agreement finalised.
projects, on time and remains within base Kraken, UK First oil was achieved budget.
case estimates with I B 8{k key milestones met.
commissioning challenges resulted in production volume targets not being met as well as the opex target costs.
One cargo lifting sold Senegal Entered into an agreement with Woodside for development activities, developed a gas management plan, attained JV approval of the contracting strategy, prepared the Evaluation Plan and progressing the Exploitation Plan framework.
Nova Front-end engineering and design studies were completed and a draft Field Development Plan has been prepared by the operator for JV review.
Commercial agreements in relation to the Gjoa tie-back in preparation.
117 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued U{F Weighting Bonus awarded KPI remuneration committee Purpose U{F Measurement of maximum opportunity decision Maintain licence to operate including HSE performance Deliver value in Achieve targets for HSE Achievements of leading Good progress against leading Substantially a safe, secure and leading performance indicators linked to the indicators including revision of achieved environmentally and indicators LPIs linked to four key categories: CRMS and development of new socially responsible the four key categories Lagging indicators set Code of Ethics: manner.
within the Groups in line with IOGP targets Training provided to all staff on Corporate Responsibility and guidelines: bribery and corruption, modern Management System Completion and slavery, human rights and cyber Business Relationships: assessment of security: Society and Management Training Developed an impact benefit Communities: People: Programme: strategy and successfully launched and the Environment.
S uccessful launch the Hunger Project community Achieve lagging HSSE investment in Senegal: indicators set in line ERP system: and Completed a number of crisis and with IOGP targets and Establish a new emergency response training guidelines.
Integrated Information exercises: Investing in people and Systems Plan.
Training programme completed for systems.
all staff with management duties: New enterprise resource planning system launched on schedule in e Achieved Total Recordable Injury  medical treatment cases: No lost time or restricted workday cases: and Minor release of oil into the sea from ROV, not reportable to the regulator.
Deliver a sustainable business maintain liquid reserves Maintain a self-funding Maintain liquid reserves Development of a funding Funding headroom was maintained Substantially business plan.
including undrawn strategy to ensure ability to throughout the year covering the achieved committed banking facilities execute value-generative Groups committed forward to meet planned funding plan, maintaining liquid capital expenditure: commitments plus a reserves to meet planned Debt covenants were maintained cushion at all times.
commitments, whilst with material headroom and retaining a funding cushion strengthened through the year: three tests.
The Group entered a hedging programme for Catcher and Kraken crude: and Good progress was made on securing additional sources of finance to support planned Nova and Senegal developments.
Make tangible progress Milestones in the arbitration, Successfully defended the UF including successfully Government of Indias motion to treaty arbitration in relation defending the Government stay and or bifurcate the case: to the Cairn India Limited of Indias stay and Maintained deadlines in the shares freeze.
bifurcation applications and procedural timetable: maintaining January 2018 as The final arbitration hearing was the final merits hearing date.
I e dividends owed to Cairn which have been seized by the Indian Government.
Totals Chief Executive, strategy, management, succession planning and the organisation: and ii in the case of the CFO, funding, organisation and people and personal development.
{ I {X e  e 118 The application of the outturn from the above performance condition assessments resulted in the following bonuses becoming payable to Simon Thomson and James Smith: Simon Thomson James Smith Group KPI measures Individual conditions Group KPI measures Individual conditions Award elements bonus opportunity x Achievement level e Total award Aggregate achievement level x a Total award as an amount 538,880 350,492 1 Form of payment Cash payment 538,880 350,492 2 Deferred share award 0 0 Notes: conditions.
granted under the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan.
The remuneration committee considered that the above final award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year.
X Introduction % % XF{ e:a a XF{ e:a a XF{ XF{ vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance 8 XF{ % XF{ original terms.
jXFz F XF{ of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ranking table.
The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest Below median Median Between median and upper decile e XF{ 119 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued F XF{ value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his her award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period B XF{ unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
jXFz 8 XF{ % that arrangement, the performance conditions are comprised of two distinct elements, namely: Conditions applicable to the core award involves an assessment of the Companys TSR performance over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant relative to the Vesting will then take place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in core award that vest Below median Median Between median and upper quartile Conditions applicable to the kicker award The second condition applies to the remaining part of each grant the kicker award, being an element that is granted over ordinary shares worth  8 of these requirements is not satisfied, no part of the kicker award will vest.
e XF{ XF{ an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
XFz k XF{ F XF{ % to a holding period of two years following vesting, at the end of which the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled will be released or become exercisable.
For the avoidance of doubt, this additional holding period will apply to both the kicker and core elements see above of these awards.
e %  { XF{ operated by the committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics which, had it been known at the relevant time, would have reasonably been expected to have resulted in such lower vesting being determined.
of shares over originally granted... shares over shares to vest if all Vesting Basis of award Share price at date which award that vest at which award performance determined by Type of award granted of grant originally granted threshold originally granted measures met performance over Directors Simon Thomson Nil-cost option salary of 3 years until 22 05 20 James Smith Nil-cost option salary of Notes: % c XF{ a e LTIP awards vesting during the year audited k a XF{ a including current and former executive directors came to an end.
Thereafter, the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance a Performance measure { Relative TSR performance against Cairns TSR over the period placed it between the second and third companies with the opportunity for ranked companies in the comparator group.
After careful be applied for upper decile consideration of a variety of factors, absolute TSR performance.
the committee also concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in the overall performance of the Company over the three years in question.
Notes: 8 e a a time the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions.
No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period.
 XX{ 121 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued XF{ No.
of shares that vested after as per taking account of No.
of shares over performance any time which award condition pro-rating Value of shares Type of award Date of grant originally granted Date of vesting assessment requirements vesting Current director Simon Thomson Nil-cost option xx xx James Smith Nil-cost option xx xx Former directors Jann Brown Nil-cost option xx xx Dr Mike Watts Nil-cost option xx xx Notes: B e k XF{ : 8 a e F e I % a XF{ B awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period that they were employed by the Group.
XFz Details of vested LTIP awards which are in the form of nil-cost options that were exercised by current and former directors during the year to % Number of ordinary shares Market value of acquired on ordinary shares at Date of grant Plan Date of vesting Date of exercise exercise Exercise price date of exercise Gain on exercise Current director Simon Thomson xx XF{ xx xx Nil xx XF{ xx xx Nil James Smith xx XF{ xx xx Nil Former director Jann Brown xx XF{ xx xx Nil Dr Mike Watts xx XF{ xx xx Nil {X e  e 122 LTIP other awards held by executive directors during the year 8 XF{ are details of the other unvested entitlements under the plans that were held by current executive directors during the year: 8 over which No.
of shares award over which originally... shares over... max.
of Vesting determined Share price award granted that which award shares to vest if by performance Basis of award at date of originally vest at originally all performance over three years Date of grant Plan Type of award granted grant granted threshold granted measures met until... Directors Simon xx XF{ Nil-cost xx Thomson option salary of xx XF{ Nil-cost xx option salary of James xx XF{ Nil-cost xx Smith option salary of xx XF{ Nil-cost xx option salary of Notes: 8 F 8 at date of grant.
z Introduction In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM  F{ e F{ { ordinary shares on their behalf.
Matching shares the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two 8 x x 8 k e made to employees, including to the executive directors.
As the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms.
%Fz Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares awarded on awarded on awarded on xx xx xx Total SIP shares Total SIP shares xx share per share per share xx Directors Simon Thomson James Smith The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the Shareholding guidelines for directors audited The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain % % In order to facilitate the achievement of the above requirement, the share ownership policy also provides that, until the necessary holding is achieved, Companys share incentive plans.
% F the fact that, on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive, but, in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by James Smith.
However, James Smith does intend to build up his holding over time in accordance with the committees policy and it is expected that he will reach the necessary levels within the period of five years from joining the Group.
{X e  e 124 Shares held Awards over shares under the LTIP Ordinary shares Value of holding subject to vested Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Total holding of but unexercised subject to Total interest in Ordinary shares held in the SIP ordinary shares I awards unvested awards ordinary shares Executive directors Simon Thomson James Smith Non-executive directors Ian Tyler Todd Hunt Iain McLaren Alexander Berger M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Keith Lough Peter Kallos Nicoletta Giadrossi Notes: % F F{ subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
% XF{ % XF{ % % % In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Companys discretionary share plans XF{ x issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Companys employee It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP and the Deferred Bonus Plan are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.
As a result, neither the SIP nor the Deferred Bonus Plan involves the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous.
The executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
% are as follows: Fees received for the year Position held % Current directors Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Grahams The Family Dairy Limited Relative importance of spend on pay Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions % Financial Year Financial Year % Note: 8 % 125 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued F The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the current Directors Remuneration Policy % Remuneration element F Base salary I with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date.
After applying this increase, % I 8k Benefits e In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus B into Cairn shares for a period of three years.
8k : U{F described below with details of the weightings specified in brackets : HSSE CR Demonstrate clear progress and achieve defined milestones in relation to HSSE CR objectives, split into four key categories Business Relationships, Society and Communities, People and the Environment.
Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in line with IOGP targets and guidelines.
New Ventures Secure two or more new exploration opportunities that meet corporate hurdles and offer exploration drilling within five years.
Measured against tests of control, commercial robustness and materiality.
Exploration Mature six or more prospects with all internal reviews completed.
% Efficiently discover commercial quantities of hydrocarbons in line with pre-drill estimates at an attractive Group finding efficiency rate.
Development Mature the SNE Senegal development and funding plans for presentation to the Government of Senegal.
Timely submission of the SNE Area Evaluation Report, Exploitation Plan and associated Environmental and Social Impact Assessment.
Approval of the Exploitation Plan and associated Exploitation Area by the end of the PSC: finalisation and approval of JV financing plan.
Mature the Nova development project in Norway to Final Investment Decision.
{ % c B approvals in place to complete a Final Investment Decision and approve the Operator entering I Production Cash flow Deliver target production volumes, operating costs and crude values from Kraken and Catcher at pre-determined levels.
The committee has agreed minimum target and stretch net oil production volumes, operating {x{ Maintain balance sheet strength funding Develop and implement a funding strategy that ensures that an executable funding plan including FID decisions, new venture opportunities and contingent exploration investment plans is developed and that a minimum headroom cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
U F and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above.
However, appropriate disclosure of Group KPIs and : e  on Remuneration.
{X e  e 126 LTIP It is intended that, during 2018, the executive directors will be granted awards pursuant to the rules XF{ following forms:  performance : and upper quartile ranking in the comparator group and absolute TSR growth over the performance All shares that vest in relation to an award whether core or kicker will be subject to an additional two year holding period.
The comparator group against which the relative performance conditions are assessed will be the same XF{ F F SIP Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension an equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-executive directors fees x Chairmans fees %   a M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC Chair of the remuneration committee 127
