Directors Remuneration report This Report lays out the core principles of our Directors Annual statement by Remuneration Policy and details of our pre-IPO remuneration practice as a private company.
I trust we have done this with the transparency and clarity that aids your understanding the Chairman of the of both our intent and our actions.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Policy In anticipation of Admission, the Company commissioned a Neil Carson OBE review of its Remuneration Policy.
The objective of the review Deputy Chairman and was to ensure that our remuneration structures for Directors Senior Independent Director and other senior employees would be fit for purpose as a listed company whilst also retaining certain key features, such as simplicity and transparency.
We believe that the incentive plans that form part of our new Remuneration Policy fit within UK corporate governance requirements.
The plans in summary are: Base salary Set at a level which is market competitive to attract and retain executives and at a level which reflects an individuals experience, role, competency and performance.
Benefits Access to existing health insurance, car and perquisite allowance.
Dear Shareholder, Pension Our Executive Directors have a nominal As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased matching defined contribution retirement to introduce our first Directors Remuneration report as a savings plan customary in the United States listed company.
which, contrary to UK norms, is subject to a cap of approximately 10k annually.
The Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 46 to 54 of Annual and Annual incentives of up to 300% of base this report will be submitted to shareholders for approval at our Deferred Bonus pay may be awarded for the achievement Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018 and is consistent with Plan ABP of financial and strategic targets linked to our the disclosure in the IPO prospectus issued in October 2017. strategy.
Consistent with UK governance and guidance, bonus of up to the first 100% Our approach to the Remuneration Policy of salary is paid in cash, with any element As this is the first Directors Remuneration report for TI Fluid above 100% of salary deferred into ordinary Systems as a listed company, the Remuneration Committee shares and held for two years.
Previously, as have sought to put into place a remuneration structure consistent a private company, the short-term incentive with UK corporate governance requirements and guidance, whilst plan was uncapped and paid in full in cash.
focusing on attracting, retaining and motivating an international management team.
We started our work as a Remuneration Long-Term Executive Directors will receive annual Committee prior to the IPO and, since the listing, have built Incentive Plan share awards of up to 300% of base pay on this work to develop our first Remuneration Policy.
LTIP under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the first of which is proposed to be awarded prior to TI Fluid Systems has in place a senior leadership team the Annual General Meeting in May 2018. with significant experience and a long-proven track-record Vesting of these shares is subject to of performance in the competitive automotive industry.
performance conditions measured over The Remuneration Committees aim is to have a Policy which a three-year period: with an opportunity supports the Companys key strategic objectives described to earn up to 133% of maximum award on pages 18 to 19. for exceptional performance 400% of base salary in total.
Similar US-based automotive This Remuneration Policy aligns the Executive Directors companies have maximum long-term interests with the long-term interests of shareholders and incentive opportunities of up to 595% base is designed to attract, retain and motivate a global talent base salary for the Chief Executive Officer.
with key senior management based in the US.
Recovery and These are in place for the ABP and LTIP withholding to safeguard shareholders interests in The Policy: provisions the event of an overpayment.
maintains a UK listed company remuneration structure, while recognising the need to maintain competitive benefits Shareholder At the 2017 year end and at the time of in the Directors country of residence, which at this time Guidelines publishing this report, the CEO and CFO is the United States: held shares equivalent to approximately supports a high-performance culture with appropriate 24 times and 19 times of base salary reward for superior performance without creating incentives respectively: however, a requirement that encourage excessive risk taking or unsustainable primarily for new Executive Directors to Company performance: and build up and retain a significant holding of recognises the significant equity ownership position held TI Fluid Systems shares has been introduced.
by the current Executive Directors.
This is underpinned through the implementation and operation Further details on the Remuneration Policy can be found of our two incentive plans: the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan on page 46.
ABP and the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
TI Fluid Systems plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration Committee decisions made and activity following the IPO The Groups remuneration policies and practices were reviewed in preparation for the IPO to ensure appropriate remuneration arrangements were in place to support the Groups strategy following the listing of the Company.
The Remuneration Committees key activities during 2017 and in the period since the IPO were focused on: agreement of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference: formulation and finalisation of the Directors Remuneration Policy as a listed company: setting the policy for Non-Executive Directors fees: designing the Companys new ABP and LTIP: determining the level of short and long-term bonus payments in respect of the 2017 financial year: and drafting the Companys first Annual Report on Remuneration as a listed company.
Shareholder engagement We are committed to active engagement with our shareholders.
As part of the preparation for the IPO we clearly disclosed remuneration details in the Global Offer prospectus.
We have also sought feedback from our major shareholders in advance of the publication of the Remuneration Policy, to explain our approach in addressing Executive Directors remuneration.
The remainder of the Remuneration report is split into two parts in line with legislative reporting requirements: Remuneration Policy.
This sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors.
The Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding vote of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
If approved by shareholders, the Remuneration Policy will come into effect on 17 May 2018, and will be effective from the beginning of the current financial year.
If there is any change to the Remuneration Policy, a new policy will be submitted to shareholders for approval.
This sets out payments made to the Executive Directors during the year and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for that period.
This is subject to an annual advisory vote of shareholders.
For clarity, the remuneration for the period prior to IPO, detailed in the Annual report on remuneration, was not subject to the Remuneration Policy set out on the following pages.
Neil Carson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 March 2018 TI Fluid Systems plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
