Annual Report & Accounts 2017 70 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholders Enhanced Long-Term Incentive Plan ELTIP award will vest in early 2018.
The high levels of vesting reflect the Companys strong long-term TSR On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors performance over the threeand four-year periods to 2017.
Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2017 which is split into three sections: this Annual Statement, the Directors Remuneration Implementation of proposed Remuneration Policy in 2018 Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For 2018, the maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain 150% of From an operational perspective, 2017 was a successful year for the salary.
The bonus payment will be subject to performance against broadly Company, with a record level of production overall and two of our mines, the same measures as those used in 2017.
An LTIP award of 200% of salary Inmaculada and our San Jose joint venture, having their best years to date.
is proposed for 2018, in line with past years and while vesting will continue Our brownfield exploration programme has made good progress with, in to be based on relative TSR to the mining sector, the LTIP time horizon will particular, some encouraging new discoveries in the vicinity of the be extended as described above.
Further detail on the implementation of Inmaculada mine.
Policy for 2018 is included on page 82.
It is with sadness, however, that the year also represented a setback in I trust that shareholders will be supportive of the proposed changes to terms of our safety record and, after investigation, it is clear that we must Remuneration Policy, and if you should have any queries or comments on continue to embed a safety-first culture across all of our operations.
More the Policy or any aspect of this years report, I would encourage you to details on the programme that is being implemented can be found in the contact me through the Company Secretary.
Safety section of the Sustainability Report.
I hope you find this report to be informative.
Remuneration Policy review This year we are seeking shareholder approval for a revised Directors Michael Rawlinson Remuneration Policy which appears on pages 71 to 76 and is the Chairman, Remuneration Committee culmination of a wide-ranging review by the Remuneration Committee that took in all elements of executive remuneration at Hochschild Mining.
The focus has been on incorporating features of good practice in light of This report has been prepared according to the requirements of the specific investor feedback, as well as to reflect general trends in executive Companies Act 2006 the Act, Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of remuneration through, among other things, reaction to the work of the the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Executive Remuneration Working Group in its mission to simplify executive Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and other relevant remuneration among the UKs larger companies.
requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
In addition, the Board has I am pleased to be able to report on the resultant proposals which, subject applied the principles of good corporate governance set out in the to shareholder approval, will take effect from the forthcoming AGM.
In UK Corporate Governance Code, and has considered the guidelines particular, the new Remuneration Policy will extend the time horizon of the issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as ISS Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP such that the cash awards, upon vesting Institutional Shareholder Services, the Investment Association and after three years, will be invested as to 50% in the Companys shares and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association.
will be required to be held for a further two years.
In addition, we have The Remuneration Committee is seeking shareholder approval for reviewed the structure of the annual bonus scheme and, as a result, the an updated Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM.
The key changes level of payouts at the threshold and target levels of performance have to the previous Policy are as follows: been reduced thereby further incentivising the highest levels of performance.
We have also increased the minimum shareholding The overall LTIP time horizon to be extended such that 50% of requirement for Executive Directors from 200% to 250% of salary and, in vested LTIP awards is paid immediately on vesting in cash less recognition of prevailing best practice and the investor focus in this area, tax, and 50% after tax is invested in Company shares and we have widened the scope of the Groups malus policy such that a wider required to be held for a further two years variety of acts or failure to act may be brought within the Remuneration Payout under the annual bonus for threshold and target Committees discretion to reduce incentive payouts.
performance to be reduced to up to 50% and up to 75% of maximum opportunity, respectively The new Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM, and the Annual Report on Remuneration will, as usual, be subject to Use of the discretion granted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R to be an advisory vote by shareholders.
limited to the maxima set out in the Policy Table unless in relation to a buy-out, and limited to recruitment Remuneration decisions in 2017 Widening of the malus policy to include a more extensive list of For 2017, the CEO will receive an annual bonus of 125% of salary trigger events equivalent to 83% of maximum.
This bonus outcome reflects the Clarification of the operation of Compensation for Time Services Companys strong operational performance as set out above and, as CTS, as mandated by the Peruvian government explained later in this report, takes into account the Groups safety performance.
A summary of performance against the bonus scorecard The Committee is also seeking shareholder approval for a new isincluded on page 80.
Long-Term Incentive Plan at the AGM, as the 2008 LTIP is due to expire in May 2018.
The terms of the proposed LTIP are broadly During 2017, the CEO was granted a Long-Term Incentive Plan award of consistent with those of the 2008 Plan.
No other material changes 200% of salary.
Vesting will be based on performance over the three to the Remuneration Policy are proposed at this time, though the financial years to 31 December 2019.
Consistent with our approach for wording of the Policy has been reviewed to ensure consistency with 2016 awards, 2017 awards will vest to the extent that relative TSR targets the relevant Plan Rules and clarity of its application.
Subject to are achieved over the period.
shareholder approval, the new Policy will become effective from Based on relative TSR performance to 31 December 2017, 100% of the the date of the 2018 AGM.
2015 LTIP award and 86.3% of the four-year tranche of the legacy 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 71 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Directors Remuneration Policy unaudited The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committees agreed other relevant performance measures, and the use of a Long-Term Incentive Remuneration Policy are to: Plan LTIP which is linked to relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
attract, retain, and motivate the Groups executives and senior management: The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements provide management incentives that align with and support the Groups for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration business strategy: and for senior executives.
Remuneration decisions are also driven by external considerations, in particular relating to the global demand for talent in the align management incentives with the creation of shareholder value.
The Group seeks to achieve this alignment over both the short and long This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Directors, which term through the use of an annual performance-related bonus, which shareholders are asked to approve at the 2018 AGM.
The Committee intends rewards the achievement of a balanced mix of financial, operational and that this Policy will formally come into effect from approval at the 2018 AGM.
Policy Table The table below provides a summary of each element of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Element: objective and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Salary is reviewed annually, usually in To avoid setting expectations, there is no None.
To support recruitment March, or following a significant prescribed maximum salary.
and retention change in responsibilities.
In respect of existing Executive Directors, it is Salary levels are targeted to be anticipated that salary increases will generally competitive and relevant to the global be in line with the wider employee population.
mining sector, with reference to the In exceptional circumstances including, but relative cost of living.
The Committee not limited to, a material increase in job size also takes into consideration general or complexity, the reversal of a previous salary pay levels for the wider employee reduction, or if a Director has not received population.
an increase for a number of years, the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels.
Executive Directors receive CTS is a legal entitlement for employees in None.
Compensation for Time Services Peru which provides for a fund in the event of CTS and profit share, both of termination of employment.
CTS in respect of which are provided for by Peruvian base salary is calculated as one months wages law, as well as certain allowances and is deposited biannually in an employees which may include medical insurance, interest-accruing bank account and prior to the use of a car and driver, and the end of employment, employees can gain personal security.
access to the deposited amount to the extent it exceeds four months wages.
CTS in respect of other forms of remuneration such as incentive payouts, that are considered to be non-extraordinary, is currently calculated at a rate of 1 24th.
For the profit share, an amount equal to 8% of the relevant Peruvian companys taxable income for the year is distributable to its employees.
This amount is mandated by Peruvian law, and any increases are not within the control of the Group.
The amount receivable by each Executive Director is determined with reference to annual base salary plus the annual bonus, if any and the number of days worked during the calendar year.
The value of the other benefits varies by role and individual circumstances: eligibility and cost are reviewed periodically.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost of benefits in exceptional circumstances for example relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially for example increases in insurance premiums.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 72 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Element: objective and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Performance measures, targets The maximum annual bonus opportunity Performance is determined by the Committee Annual bonus To achieve alignment and weightings are set at the start is 150% of salary.
by reference to Group financial measures as with the Groups strategy of the year.
At the end of the year, well as the achievement of personal strategic For threshold and target levels of and commitment to the Committee determines the objectives.
The personal strategic objectives performance, the bonus earned is up to 50% extent to which targets have been are typically weighted no higher than 30% operating responsibly and up to 75% of maximum, respectively.
achieved, taking into account of maximum.
The Committee retains discretion to vary Bonus payments are normally delivered year-on-year the weightings for individual in cash.
The Committee has discretion measures, to ensure alignment with the business to defer all or a portion of the bonus, priorities for the year.
Performance targets are payable in cash or Hochschild shares generally calibrated with reference to the under the Deferred Bonus Plan Companys budget for the year.
Each objective DBP, for up to three years.
in the scorecard has a threshold, target and maximum performance target, achievement of Deferred bonus is subject to malus, which translates into a score for each objective.
i. e. forfeiture or reduction, in circumstances such as material The Committee uses its judgement to determine misstatement or gross misconduct.
the overall scorecard outcome based on the achievement of the targets and the Committees If deferral is applied, the Committee broad assessment of Company and individual retains the discretion to allow performance.
A review of the quality of earnings dividends or equivalent to accrue is conducted by the Committee to determine over the deferral period in respect whether any adjustments should be made to of the awards that vest.
the reported profit for the purpose of bonus outcomes.
This ensures that bonus outcomes are not impacted by unbudgeted non-recurring or one-off items, or circumstances outside of managements control such as material changes in commodity prices that could distort the overall quality of earnings.
Malus provisions apply, i. e. the Committee has the discretion to reduce bonus payments on the occurrence of an adverse event that is attributable directly or indirectly to an act or failure to act by the executive.
Such events include those related to health and safety, the environment or community relations.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration, unless they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
Long-Term Incentive Awards are made annually, in the Maximum annual award level is 200% of salary The current performance condition is TSR form of cash, with vesting subject 267% of salary in exceptional circumstances, performance relative to specific sector-based Plan LTIP to the attainment of specific such as to aid the recruitment or retention of comparator groups, although the Committee To directly incentivise performance conditions and an Executive Director.
has the discretion to adjust the performance sustained shareholder continued employment.
measures and or comparator groups before each value creation through cycle to ensure that they remain appropriate.
operational performance Awards have a performance and and to support the vesting period of at least three years.
Malus provisions apply, i. e. the Committee recruitment of senior For LTIP awards made in 2018 and can reduce or prevent vesting if it determines positions and longer-term subsequent years, 50% of vested either that i the overall underlying business retention awards is paid immediately on vesting performance of the Company is not satisfactory in cash less tax, and 50% after tax or ii an act or failure to act, which is is invested in Company shares and attributable directly or indirectly to an normally required to be held for a award-holder has resulted in, among other further two years.
Dividends, if any, things, an adverse event related to health and will accrue to shares during the safety, the environment or community relations.
Details of the TSR comparator groups and targets used for specific LTIP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In addition to the above elements of remuneration, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under a different structure, but within the limits sets out in the Policy Table, in order to facilitate the recruitment of an individual, exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
The Committee also retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the Policy without going back to shareholders.
The Committee is satisfied that the Remuneration Policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risk-taking.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 73 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Notes to the Policy Table Payments from existing awards Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report such as the vesting of Enhanced Long-Term Incentive Plan or Restricted Share Plan RSP awards made under a previous Policy, or awards made prior to appointment to the Board.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Performance measurement selection and approach to target-setting The measures used under the annual bonus are selected annually to reflect the Groups main strategic objectives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial priorities.
Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
The Committee considers relative TSR to be the most appropriate measure of long-term performance for the Company and together with the annual bonus measures, provide a balance between absolute and relative performance, between short-term and long-term performance measures, and between external and internal measures of performance.
TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for outperformance of sector peers, and is transparent, visible and motivational to executives.
The Committee has discretion to vary the performance condition for in-flight awards in certain circumstances to ensure they continue to be fair, reasonable and no more or less difficult to satisfy than originally intended.
For example, in the event of corporate activity amongst the TSR comparator group during a performance period, the Committee may make adjustments to the comparator group for example, replacing that company with the acquiring company, including a substitute for that company, or tracking the future performance of that company by reference to the median of the remaining comparators.
Other examples of special circumstances include but are not limited to rights issues, corporate restructuring, and special dividends.
The Committee will also review the appropriateness of the performance conditions prior to each LTIP grant and reserves the discretion to set different targets for future awards without consulting with shareholders.
Remuneration Policy for other employees The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
In general, the Remuneration Policy and principles which apply to other senior executives are broadly consistent with those set out in this report for the CEO.
Generally, remuneration is linked to Company and individual performance in a way that is ultimately aimed at reinforcing the delivery of shareholder value.
Senior employees above a specific grade are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with a similar design to that for the CEO.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
All Peruvian employees participate in the statutory profit share scheme whereby an amount equal to 8% of the relevant Peruvian companys taxable income for the year is distributable to its employees.
The amount receivable by each employee is determined with reference to their annual base salary and bonus, if any, and the number of days worked in the calendar year.
Selected senior employees participate in the LTIP and are required, subject to shareholder approval of the new plan, to invest 50% of the vested cash award on a tax net basis in the Companys shares and hold these shares for a further two years.
These shares will count towards their target shareholding expressed as a percentage of salary, which will be set depending on seniority.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 74 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Pay scenario charts The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the CEO, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the proposed Remuneration Policy, applied to the CEOs base salary as at 1 March 2018 of $700,000.
Performance scenario Maximum % % % On target % % % Minimum % Fixed pay Single year variable Multi year variable The charts above exclude the effect of any Company share price appreciation.
The minimum scenario shows base salary and benefits that is, fixed remuneration, and associated CTS.
These are the only elements of the CEOs remuneration package which are not at risk.
The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus a target payout of 75% of the annual bonus and threshold vesting of 25% of the maximum award under the LTIP, and associated CTS.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives, and associated CTS.
Approach to remuneration on recruitment or promotion The Committees policy is to set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy at the time of the appointment.
The overarching aim is to ensure that the Company pays no more than is necessary to appoint individuals of an appropriate calibre.
In the cases of appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration as set out in the Policy Table.
In determining the appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Hochschild and its shareholders.
Where an individual is appointed on an initial base salary that is below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of time, subject to the individuals development in the role.
This may result in above-average salary increases during this period.
In addition to the components of remuneration as set out in the Policy Table, the Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy-out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer on a like-for-like basis, having regard to the fair value of the instruments.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
The Committee aims to use the current remuneration structure in making recruitment awards, but in some cases it may be required to use the flexibility afforded by Listing Rule 9.4.
2R, if appropriate, in relation to such buy-out awards.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Committee will determine remuneration in line with the Policy for external appointees as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to his or her promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Incentive opportunities for below-Board employees are typically no higher than for Executive Directors, but measures may vary to provide better line-of-sight.
For more details on the Remuneration Policy for other employees, see page 73.
Service contracts Executive Director Date of service contract Ignacio Bustamante 1 April 2007 Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
Ignacio Bustamante was appointed a Director of the Company with effect from 1 April 2010 and is employed under a contract of employment with Compaia Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares dated 1 April 2007.
The contract is subject to Peruvian law and, as such, has no fixed term and may be terminated i by the executive on 30 days notice and ii by Ares without notice.
Under Peruvian law, termination by Ares other than termination for certain prescribed reasons such as gross negligence gives rise to an entitlement to compensation of no less than 1.5 times the monthly base salary for each year of service completed, up to a maximum of 12 months base salary.
In addition to these provisions and to reflect Peruvian market practice, the Committee has discretion to award Ignacio Bustamante up to an additional 12 months base salary on termination other than for the prescribed reasons outlined above.
The prevailing circumstances will be taken into consideration at the time of termination.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 75 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Leaver and change-of-control provisions The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTIP, as well as legacy plans, are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion.
When considering the appropriate treatment, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
Leaver provisions for awards granted prior to 2018 under the ELTIP and RSP are detailed in the previous Remuneration Policy.
Reason for leaving Treatment of awards Timing of vesting Annual bonus Retirement, ill health, disability, death or any Cash bonuses will only be paid to the extent that Normal payment date, although the Committee has other reasons the Committee may determine Group and personal objectives set at the beginning of discretion to accelerate in its absolute discretion the year have been achieved.
Any resulting bonus would typically be pro-rated for time served during the year.
The Committee has discretion to determine as to whether deferral would be applied.
Change-of-control and company business sale The Committee would determine the most On date of event appropriate treatment in the circumstances.
Any other reason No bonus is paid.
Not applicable LTIP Retirement, ill health, disability, redundancy, injury Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time Normal vesting date, although the Committee has or any other reasons the Committee may determine and performance, unless the Committee determines discretion to accelerate in its absolute discretion otherwise.
Death Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and On date of event performance, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Change-of-control and company business sale Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and On date of event performance, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
On a change-of-control, Hochschild awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate.
Any other reason Awards lapse.
Not applicable DBP Death, ill health, disability, redundancy, injury, Any outstanding awards would typically be pro-rated On date of event retirement with agreement of the Director, or any for time.
other reasons the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion Change-of-control and company business sale Any outstanding awards would typically be pro-rated On date of event for time.
Not applicable The Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine the most appropriate treatment of vested LTIP awards that are subject to a holding period, based on the individual circumstances at the time.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 76 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under Letters of Appointment as detailed in the table below.
In accordance with their terms, the Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial period of three years which is automatically extended for further three-year terms.
Notwithstanding this, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the appointments of Non-Executive Directors may be determined by the Board or the Director giving not less than three months notice.
Details of the terms of appointment of the Companys Non-Executive Directors serving during the year are shown in the table below.
The appointment and reappointment and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
Anticipated expiry of present term of Non-Executive Director Letter of appointment dated appointment subject to annual re-election Eduardo Hochschild 30 January 2015 1 January 2019 20 June 2011 1 July 2020 Dr Graham Birch Jorge Born Jr. 16 October 2006 16 October 2018 Eileen Kamerick 9 September 2016 1 November 2019 Michael Rawlinson 18 December 2015 1 January 2019 Sanjay Sarma 13 December 2016 1 January 2020 Dionisio Romero Paoletti 18 December 2017 1 January 2021 The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys performance-related incentive plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
As part of his change of role from Executive to Non-Executive Chairman on 1 January 2015, the Committee agreed that Mr Hochschild would retain his eligibility for benefits received in respect of his time as an Executive Director, consisting primarily of personal security, car and driver, and medical insurance.
The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its Committees.
Details of the Policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Objective Details Opportunity Performance metrics To attract and retain Fee levels are reviewed from time to time, with any NED fees will typically only be increased during the None.
Non-Executive adjustments typically effective from 1 March each year.
term of this Policy in line with general market levels Directors of the highest of NED fee inflation.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the calibre with broad Committee, and base fees to Non-Executive Directors are In the event that there is a material misalignment commercial and other determined by the Board.
Additional fees are payable for with the market or a change in the complexity, experience relevant acting as Chairman of the Boards Committees and responsibility or time commitment required to fulfil a to the Company.
Non-Executive Director role, the Board has discretion to make an appropriate adjustment to the fee level.
Fee levels are reviewed by reference to FTSE-listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, The maximum aggregate annual fee for all level of involvement required and responsibility are taken into Directors provided in the Companys Articles account when reviewing fee levels.
of Association is 3 million p. a.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director NED, the Committee will use the Policy as set out in the table above.
A base fee would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for those acting as Chair of the Companys Board Committees and as Senior Independent Director, as appropriate.
External appointments policy The Board recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to serve as Directors of other companies, which can bring benefits to the Group.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is sought and granted.
The Policy is that fees may be retained by the Director, reflecting the personal risk assumed in such appointments.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically on the effectiveness and appropriateness of the executive Remuneration Policy and framework.
However, the Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives.
Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account views of shareholders and best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on Remuneration Policy and arrangements, and commits to undergoing shareholder consultation in advance of any significant changes to Remuneration Policy.
Further details on the votes received in respect of remuneration resolutions presented at last years AGM and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report on Remuneration The following section provides details of how Hochschilds 2015 Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the proposed Remuneration Policy in 2018.
Any information contained in this section of the report that is subject to audit has been marked as such.
Remuneration Committee membership The Remuneration Committee was chaired during the year under review by Enrico Bombieri, and its other members were Graham Birch and Nigel Moore until his retirement from the Board on 11 May 2017.
Michael Rawlinson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 11 May 2017, and was subsequently appointed Chairman of the Committee from 1 January 2018 to succeed Enrico Bombieri.
Eileen Kamerick was appointed a member of the Committee on that same date.
The Remuneration Committee has comprised, at all times, of only Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
Members of senior management attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year, such members included the Chairman, the CEO and the Vice President of Human Resources.
No Director or senior executive is present when his own remuneration arrangements are considered by the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference The duties of the Remuneration Committee are to determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the other members of senior management and the Company Secretary, as well as their specific remuneration packages including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
In determining such policy, the Remuneration Committee shall take into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance, and are rewarded in a fair and responsible manner for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year details of members attendance at meetings are provided in the Corporate Governance Report on page 65 and undertook the items of business noted below.
Key activities of the Remuneration Committee in 2017: Considered external market developments and best practice in remuneration, and latest shareholder guidelines Reviewed and approved incentive outcomes for 2016 2016 annual bonus and vesting of 2014 LTIP awards and the third tranche of 2011 ELTIP awards Reviewed the CEOs total remuneration, including salary for 2017 Considered and approved the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report DRR Considered investor feedback on the 2016 DRR Approved the opportunity award level and performance targets for 2017 annual bonus and LTIP awards Reviewed the Remuneration Policy, LTIP and operation of the Annual Bonus Plan Reviewed and widened the malus policy for application across all incentives Considered and approved the CEOs 2018 objectives Advisers During the year, in order to enable the Committee to reach informed decisions on executive remuneration, advice on market data and trends was obtained from independent consultants, Mercer Kepler.
Mercer Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman, and is a signatory to and abides by the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Other than advice on remuneration, no other services were provided by Mercer Kepler to the Company or any other part of the MMC group of companies with the exception of unrelated insurance brokerage services.
The fees paid to Mercer Kepler in respect of work carried out in 2017 based on time and materials totalled 44,405, excluding expenses and VAT.
The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Mercer Kepler remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Mercer Kepler is independent.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 78 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of shareholder voting at the 2017 AGM The table below shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on 11 May 2017: 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 424,953,371 97.3% Against 11,934,005 2.7% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 436,887,376 Votes withheld 104,922 Note: Votes withheld are not included in the final proxy figures as they are not recognised as votes in law.
The Committee is committed to listening to and engaging with the views of our shareholders and takes an interest in voting outcomes.
The Committee will continue to be transparent in our remuneration decision-making and to engage with our shareholders on remuneration matters.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by Ignacio Bustamante, the only Executive Director, for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year: 2017 2016 US$000 US$000 1 Base salary 700 702 2 Taxable benefits 26 42 3 Single-year variable 875 875 4 Multiple-year variable 1,737 904 5 Restricted shares 1,064 779 6 Profit share 7 8 9 Compensation for Time Service CTS 212 165 Tax refunds 7 7 10 Total 4,621 3,474 1 Figures disclosed include certain statutory payments accounted for internally within base salary Statutory Supplements as follows.
2 Taxable benefits include: use of a car and driver 2017: $20k: 2016: $36k and medical insurance rounded to nearest $000.
3 Payment for performance during the year under the Annual Bonus Plan.
See following sections for further details.
4 20 17 value comprises: a the 2015 LTIP award of $1m will fully vest based on performance to 31 December 2017 and subject to continued employment on the vesting date, and b the four-year tranche of the 2014 ELTIP will vest as to 86.3% $737k using the three-month average share price for the period ending 31 December 2017 of 235.1p based on performance to 31 December 2017 and subject to continued employment on the vesting date.
2016 value comprises: 90.4% vesting from the 2014 LTIP award, and nil vesting from the six-year tranche of the 2011 ELTIP, based on performance to 31 December 2016.
5 20 17 value comprises the second tranche of restricted shares granted on 30 December 2014 which vested on 30 December 2017 at a share price of 264p: the Committee determined that the individual performance underpin had been met.
2016 value comprises the first tranche of restricted shares granted on 30 December 2014 which vested on 30 December 2016, at a share price of 211.5p.
6 All-employee profit share mandated by Peruvian law which, in light of the levels of taxable profit generated at the relevant entity level, has resulted in nil payout.
7 For further details on CTS, see page 71.
8 Comprises: CTS on base salary $58k, 2017 bonus $36k, 2015 LTIP $42k, second tranche of vested RSP awards $44k and first tranche of the 2014 ELTIP $31k all rounded to nearest $000.
9 Comprises: CTS on base salary $58k, 2016 bonus $36k, 2014 LTIP $38k and first tranche of vested RSP awards $32k all rounded to nearest $000.
10 Restated to reflect CTS associated with each element of remuneration earned in respect of 2016 rather than CTS paid in 2016.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year: Base fee Additional fees Taxable benefits Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1 2 Eduardo Hochschild 400 400 555 501 955 901 Dr Graham Birch 74 68 74 68 3 3 Jorge Born Jr 74 68 74 68 4 Eileen Kamerick 74 10 10 84 10 Michael Rawlinson 74 68 74 68 5 Sanjay Sarma 74 n a n a n a 74 n a Former Directors 6 Enrico Bombieri 74 68 12 86 68 8 8 7 8 8 Roberto Daino 23 68 100 240 4 8 127 316 9 9 9 Nigel Moore 23 68 5 14 28 82 1 E duardo Hochschild was an Executive Director until 31 December 2014, and as reported in the 2015 report, Eduardo Hochschild retained eligibility to receive benefits following his transition to the Non-Executive Chairman role.
2 Restated to reflect the correct cost of personal security.
3 Jorge Born Jr originally waived his entitlement to an additional fee of 10,000 as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in light of the challenging trading conditions faced by the Company at that time.
4 Eileen Kamerick received an additional fee upon assuming the role of Chair of the Audit Committee on 11 May 2017 see below for further details.
5 Sanjay Sarma was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
6 Enric o Bombieri originally waived his entitlement to additional fees in his capacity as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee up until 1 September 2017 when they were reinstated see below for further details.
7 Roberto Daino retired from the Board on 11 May 2017.
8 Pursuant t o a contract between Mr Daino and the Group dated 28 December 2010 in respect of his engagement as Special Adviser to the Chairman and the senior management team a an annual fee of $240,000 was payable and b certain benefits were provided including medical insurance.
The contract was terminated on Mr Dainos retirement from the Board.
9 Nigel Moore retired from the Board on 11 May 2017.
Additional fees relate to the fees payable to Mr Moore as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Salary and fee adjustments for the year ended 31 December 2017 Executive Director The Committee reviewed the CEOs salary in 2017 and determined that no increase would be awarded.
Base salary from Base salary from 1 March 2017 1 March 2016 Percentage Executive Director US$000 US$000 increase Ignacio Bustamante 700 700 0% Base salaries above excludes CTS.
Ignacio Bustamantes salary is denominated in US dollars.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its Committees.
The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are set out in the table below.
All Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee, and additional fees are typically paid for the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman were reviewed during the year.
The Board determined that as a result of improved trading conditions and as permitted under the Groups Remuneration Policy, fees for Non-Executive Directors were reinstated to their levels prior to August 2013, when fees were reduced as part of the Groups cost-saving measures.
The revised fees took effect from 1 September 2017.
A summary of current fee levels is provided below: Current fee effective from Fee from Percentage Fee 1 September 2017 1 January 2017 increase Chairman fee US$400,000 US$400,000 0% Base fee 70,000 50,000 40% Additional fees 14,000 10,000 40% Enrico Bombieri had waived his right to the additional fees to which he was entitled as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director until 1 September 2017, when they were reinstated.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 80 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2017 audited Annual bonus in respect of 2017 performance Objectives for the 2017 bonus were set by the Committee at the beginning of the year and a provisional assessment of performance during the year was undertaken at the November Committee meeting, which was confirmed in February 2018.
Further details of the bonus paid to the CEO for 2017, including the specific performance metrics, weightings and performance against each of the metrics, are provided in the table below: Targets Target Performance Objective KPI weighting Threshold Target Maximum assessment Profitable production Production 30% N A 37m Oz Aq Eq 37.9m Oz Aq Eq 38m Oz Ag Eq and financial results 1 EBITDA 15% US$220m US$241m US$250m US$242m All-in sustaining cost AISC 15% US$13.5 Oz US$12.5 Oz US$12.3 Oz US$12.3 Oz Brownfields inferred resources 10% 52m Oz Ag Eq 70m Oz Aq Eq 88m Oz Aq Eq 60.4m Oz Ag Eq subject to permitting Safety & Environmental Frequency rate LTIFR 15% 3.00 2.50 2.00 2.69 awareness Accident Severity Index 10% 540 450 300 1,264 2 ECO score 5% 3.0 3.29 3.3 3.49 3.5 4.75 1 Adjusted as described in the final paragraph below.
2 Please r efer to the Sustainability Report on page 43 for further details on the methodology of calculating the Groups ECO score the internally designed measurement of the Companys environmental performance.
The determination of the bonus payout is at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account performance during the year against the above scorecard.
Each objective in the scorecard has a threshold, target and maximum performance target, achievement of which translates into a score for each objective.
Objectives which are considered critical to the Group are given higher weightings, such that outperformance in these areas contributes more significantly to the overall bonus outcome.
The weighted average of the scores is calculated, and is translated into a bonus outcome of between 0% and 150% of salary for the CEO, which is used in the Committees judgement in determining the actual bonus awarded.
The Committee assessed performance against the scorecard and the CEOs performance in 2017.
A number of adjustments were made in line with the Companys usual practice to a maintain the quality of earnings by primarily disregarding the impact of factors outside of managements control such as the price of silver and gold as compared to the budgeted prices, the higher provision for vesting of LTIP awards based on relative Total Shareholder Return, and any budgetary additions approved by the Board, and b acknowledge other factors outside of managements control which, in the context of the Brownfields objective, meant the delays by the governmental authorities to process permitting applications for exploration activity.
In addition, the Committee considered the Groups safety performance during the year and concluded that the impact on the CEOs bonus entitlement resulting directly from the failure to meet the objective on accident severity represented an appropriate reduction in remuneration.
The Committees assessment of performance resulted in the award of a bonus to the CEO of 125% of salary 83% of maximum.
2015 LTIP vesting On 18 March 2015, Ignacio Bustamante was granted an award under the LTIP with a face value of US$1,000,000.
Vesting was dependent on three-year relative TSR performance against both a tailored peer group 70% of the total award and the constituents of the FTSE350 Mining Index 30% of the total award.
There was no retesting of performance.
Further details of the performance conditions are shown in the table below.
Performance measure Weighting Performance targets 1 2 Relative TSR performance vs. tailored peer group 70% Upper quintile 80th percentile : full vesting Upper tercile 67th percentile : 75% vesting Median 50th percentile : 25% vesting Straight-line vesting between these points 1 Relative TSR performance vs.
Constituents of the 30% Median TSR 10% p. a. : full vesting FTSE350 Mining Index Median TSR: 25% vesting Straight-line vesting between these points 1 TSR is calculated on the average of local and common currencies.
2 The 20 15 LTIP peer group comprises: Acacia Mining, Agnico-Eagle Mines, Alamos Gold, AngloGold Ashanti, Barrick Gold, Centamin Egypt, Cia des Minas Buenaventura, Coeur Mining, Eldorado Gold, Fresnillo, Gold Fields, Goldcorp, Hecla Mining, Highland Gold, IAMGOLD, Kinross Gold, Newmont Mining, Pan American Silver, Petropavlovsk, Polymetal, Randgold Resources, and Silver Standard Resources.
The Companys TSR in the performance period between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2017 ranked 86th percentile versus that for the tailored peer group and outperformed the median of the constituents of the FTSE350 Mining Index by c. 26% per annum.
The Committee also considered the overall underlying business performance of the Company over the period, and concluded that given the impact on the CEOs 2017 bonus as a result of the Groups safety performance during the year, there should be no further adjustment to the formulaic vesting outcome in respect of the 2015 LTIP award.
Therefore, 100% of the award will vest on 18 March 2018, subject to continued employment on that date.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information 2014 ELTIP vesting On 20 March 2014, Ignacio Bustamante was granted an award of 1,076,122 shares under the 2014 ELTIP as adjusted for the rights issue in October 2015.
Vesting was dependent on four-, fiveand six-year relative TSR performance against a tailored peer group.
Further details of the performance conditions are shown in the table below: Performance periods 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2017 in respect of 25% of the award 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2018 in respect of 25% of the award 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2019 in respect of 50% of the award Vesting dates subject to performance 20 March 2018 in respect of 269,030 shares 20 March 2019 in respect of 269,030 shares 20 March 2020 in respect of 538,062 shares Performance conditions Relative TSR performance: Upper decile 90th percentile : full vesting Upper quartile 75th percentile : 75% vesting Median 50th percentile : 25% vesting Straight-line vesting between these points TSR comparator group Acacia Mining, Agnico-Eagle Mines, Alamos Gold, AngloGold Ashanti, Barrick Gold, Centamin Egypt, Cia des Minas Buenaventura, Coeur Mining, Eldorado Gold, Fresnillo, Gold Fields, Goldcorp, Hecla Mining, Highland Gold, IAMGOLD, Kinross Gold, Newmont Mining, Pan American Silver, Petropavlovsk, Polymetal, Randgold Resources, and Silver Standard Resources The Companys TSR in the performance period between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2017 ranked 82nd percentile versus that for the tailored peer group.
The Committee also considered the overall underlying business performance of the Company over the period, and concluded that given the impact on the CEOs 2017 bonus as a result of the Groups safety performance during the year, there should be no further adjustment to the formulaic vesting outcome in respect of this tranche of the 2014 ELTIP award.
Therefore, 86.3% of the award will vest in March 2018, subject to continued employment on the vesting date.
Scheme interests awarded in 2017 audited On 8 March 2017, Ignacio Bustamante was granted a cash-settled award under the LTIP with a face value of $1.4 million.
Vesting is dependent on three-year relative TSR from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019, with 70% of the award based on TSR performance against a tailored peer group and 30% of the award based on TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE350 Mining Index.
Awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued employment, and are subject to potential malus if, before vesting, the Committee determines either that i the overall underlying business performance of the Company is not satisfactory or ii an unacceptable position has occurred regarding safety, the environment, community relations, and or compliance with legal obligations of the Company.
Awards are settled in cash and the CEO will be required to invest at least 20% of any amount vesting into Hochschild shares, until such time as he has achieved the relevant shareholding guideline.
Further details, including vesting schedules, are provided in the table below: Face value of Award value for Executive Director Grant date Performance period award at grant minimum performance Ignacio Bustamante 8 March 2017 1 January 2017 to $1,400,000 $350,000 31 December 2019 Performance measure Weighting Performance targets 1 2 Relative TSR performance vs. tailored peer group 70% Upper quintile 80th percentile : full vesting Upper tercile 67th percentile : 75% vesting Median 50th percentile : 25% vesting Straight-line vesting between these points 1 Relative TSR performance vs. constituents of the 30% Median TSR 10% p. a. : full vesting FTSE350 Mining Index Median TSR: 25% vesting Straight-line vesting between these points 1 TSR is calculated on the average of local and common currencies.
2 The 20 17 LTIP peer group comprises: Acacia Mining, Agnico-Eagle Mines, Alamos Gold, AngloGold Ashanti, Barrick Gold, Centamin Egypt, Cia des Minas Buenaventura, Coeur Mining, Eldorado Gold, Endeavour Silver, First Majestic Silver, Fortuna Silver Mines, Fresnillo, Gold Fields, Goldcorp, Hecla Mining, IAMGOLD, Kinross Gold, Newmont Mining, Pan American Silver, Petropavlovsk, Polymetal, Randgold Resources, Silver Standard Resources, Tahoe Resources, and Volcan Compania Minera.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 82 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Exit payments made in the year audited No exit payments were made to Directors in the year.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2018 A summary of how the proposed Remuneration Policy will be applied for the year ended 31 December 2018, subject to shareholder approval, is provided below.
Salary The Committee reviewed the CEOs salary and has determined that it shall remain unchanged at US$700k excluding CTS.
Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the CEO for the 2018 financial year will remain 150% of salary.
The bonus payment will be subject to performance against broadly the same measures as those used in 2017.
Further disclosure of measures and targets, where not commercially sensitive, will be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
As referred to in the Chairmans Statement and Remuneration Policy, effective from the 2018 bonus, payout for threshold and target performance will be reduced to 50% from 67% and to 75% from 83% of the maximum opportunity, respectively.
As in prior years, the Committee will use its judgement to determine the overall scorecard outcome based on the achievement of the targets and a broad assessment of Company and individual performance.
The Committee reviewed the Companys malus policy during the year, and agreed to widen the policy to include a more extensive list of trigger events, including but not limited to material misstatement, material failure of risk management, gross misconduct, action or omission resulting in serious reputational damage.
The revised malus provisions will apply to all incentives, including the annual bonus, effective from 2018.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to retain discretion as to whether any part of the bonus should be paid in shares and or deferred for any period up to three years.
LTIP Subject to shareholder approval, the Committee will make awards in 2018 within the maximum limits described in the proposed Remuneration Policy.
The performance conditions will be the same as for 2017 awards.
The full comparator group is as follows: Acacia Mining, Agnico-Eagle Mines, Alamos Gold, AngloGold Ashanti, Barrick Gold, Centamin Egypt, Cia des Minas Buenaventura, Coeur Mining, Eldorado Gold, Endeavour Silver, First Majestic Silver, Fortuna Silver Mines, Fresnillo, Gold Fields, Goldcorp, Hecla Mining, IAMGOLD, Kinross Gold, Newmont Mining, Pan American Silver, Petropavlovsk, Polymetal, Randgold Resources, Silver Standard Resources, Tahoe Resources, and Volcan Compaa Minera.
As referred to in the Chairmans Statement and Remuneration Policy, effective from awards made in 2018, the LTIP time horizon will be extended such that 50% of a vested LTIP award will be paid immediately in cash, with remaining 50% invested on an after tax basis in the Companys shares which are required to be held for a further two years.
Revised malus provisions apply to LTIP awards granted in 2018 and subsequent years on the same basis as that described in the annual bonus section.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared with the percentage change in remuneration for all other employees.
CEO remuneration 1 US$000 Other employees 2017 2016 % change % change 2 Base salary 700 700 0% 7.9% Taxable benefits 26 42 -38.1% n a 3 3 4 Single-year variable 875 875 0% 10.5% 1 Other employees comprise full-time salaried employees in Peru.
2 Base salary only ie excluding Statutory Supplements see footnote 1 to table on Single total Figure of Remuneration for Executive Directors on page 78.
3 The CEOs bonus is calculated with reference to base salary only, i. e. before CTS and tax rebates.
4 Estimated figure due to the unavailability of final actual data as at the date of this report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 83 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions that is dividends and share buybacks from the financial year ended 31 December 2016 to the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
Distribution to shareholders Employee remuneration US$000 US$000 2017 2016 % change 2017 2016 % change 1 1 17,000 14,000 21.4% 166,994 143,891 16.06% 1 Which, for each year shown, comprises the interim dividend and the final dividend or in the case of 2017, the proposed final dividend.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of US$10m for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Pay for performance The following graph shows the TSR for the Company compared to the FTSE350 Mining Index and FTSE250 Index, assuming 100 was invested on 31 December 2008.
The Board considers that the FTSE350 Mining Index is an appropriate published index as it reflects the sector that Hochschild operates in, and the FTSE250 Index provides a view of performance against a broad equity market index of which Hochschild has been a constituent for the majority of the past eight years.
The table below details the CEOs single figure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
Historical TSR performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical holding over the years to December Hochschild FTSE Mining Index FTSE Index 1 1 2009 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Miguel Miguel Ignacio Ignacio Ignacio Ignacio Ignacio Ignacio Ignacio Ignacio CEO Arambur Arambur Bustamante Bustamante Bustamante Bustamante Bustamante Bustamante Bustamante Bustamante 2 CEO single figure 1,228 1,019 1,525 1,120 1,852 999 924 1,328 3,474 4,621 of remuneration $000 Annual bonus 100% 46% 100% 100% 90% 81% 67% 67% 83% 83% outcome % of maximum LTI vesting outcome 0% 0% 47% LTIP 0% 98% LTIP 0% 0% 0% 0% ELTIP 86% ELTIP % of maximum 90% LTIP 100% LTIP 1 Miguel Arambur resigned on 31 March 2010.
Ignacio Bustamante was appointed on 1 April 2010.
2 See footnote 10 to table in section entitled Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors on page 78.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 84 Hochschild Mining plc Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors interests audited The interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2017 are detailed in the table below.
The Company has adopted shareholding guidelines whereby all Executive Directors currently only the CEO are required to acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in the Company equal to at least 200% of base salary.
The guideline has been increased to 250% to take effect from the 2018 AGM for additional shareholder alignment.
The CEO is required to invest 20% of a vested LTIP award on a net basis and retain 50% of the after-tax vested ELTIP shares until such time as he has met the shareholding guideline.
In respect of awards granted under the proposed LTIP in 2018 and future years, the CEO will be required to invest 50% of a vested LTIP award on a net basis regardless of his achievement of the shareholding guideline.
Shares held Owned outright Owned outright or vested at or vested at 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2017 Vested but Unvested and or date of or date of subject to subject to Unvested and Shareholding Current appointment retirement holding performance subject to requirement shareholding Requirement if later if earlier period conditions deferral only % of salary % of salary met?
1 2 Ignacio Bustamante 531,751 650,448 0 1,971,066 40,383 200% 331% Yes Eduardo Hochschild 274,065,373 258,565,373 Dr Graham Birch 33,750 33,750 Jorge Born Jr Eileen Kamerick Michael Rawlinson Sanjay Sarma Former Directors Enrico Bombieri Roberto Daino 275,000 275,000 Nigel Moore 68,750 68,750 1 Shareholding guideline will increase to 250% of base salary from the 2018 AGM.
2 Using the Companys closing share price and GBP USD exchange rate as at 29 December 2017 being the last trading day of the year of 264p and 1:$1.351 respectively.
Other than the issuance of 298,314 shares to Ignacio Bustamante on 2 January 2018 following the vesting of RSP awards on 30 December 2017, there have been no changes to Directors shareholdings since 31 December 2017.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 85 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Directors interests in share options, shares and cash awards in Hochschild long-term incentive plans and all employee plans Details of Directors interests in shares and cash awards under Hochschilds long-term incentives are set out in the table below.
2 The fac e values of equity-settled incentives are stated in Pounds Sterling, and cash-settled incentives, namely Long-Term Incentive Plan awards, are stated in US dollars to be paid in US dollars or its equivalent in Peruvian Nuevos Soles.
These figures have been updated for the October 2015 rights issue.
3 50% of the 2016 DBP award which relates to the deferred portion of the 2015 annual bonus vested in March 2017 and the balance will vest in March 2018, subject to continued employment.
4 This second tranche of the 2014 RSP vested on 30 December 2017.
None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
External appointments The table below details the fees received and retained by Ignacio Bustamante, as the only Executive Director in office during 2017, in respect of his external Directorships.
Name of company Fee received Caral Edificaciones SAC US$5,000 Profuturo AFP US$38,500 Scotiabank Peru SAA US$36,000 Signed on behalf of the Board Michael Rawlinson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 February 2018
