Directors Remuneration report continued strategic alignment having regard to the risk appetite Directors Remuneration Policy of the Company and alignment to the Companys long-term strategic goals: Introduction encouraging and supporting a high-performance culture This part of the Directors Remuneration report sets out the with appropriate reward for superior performance: and details of the Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive and avoiding the creation of incentives that will encourage Non-Executive Directors of the Company and will be proposed excessive risk taking or unsustainable Company performance.
for approval by shareholders by way of a binding vote at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2018.
It is proposed that The Remuneration Committee will review and approve annually the Policy will apply for the period of three years from the date the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and of approval.
Unless it is changed before then and subject to review for alignment the remuneration arrangements of other shareholder approval, it is proposed the Policy as set out below key senior management taking into consideration: will operate up until the Companys Annual General Meeting overall corporate performance: to be held in 2021. market conditions affecting the Company: the recruitment market: Remuneration Policy summary business strategy over the period: and The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the changing practice in the markets where the Company Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, Non-Executive competes for talent.
Directors and Chairman for current and future years.
In setting the Policy, the Remuneration Committee has sought to ensure that The following table sets out each element of remuneration it is sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the for Executive Directors and how it supports the Companys Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
short and long-term strategic objectives.
The Policy is designed around the following key principles: Remuneration Policy table alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders: The table below and accompanying notes summarise competitive remuneration which is set at an appropriate level the key elements of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
to attract, retain and motivate executive management in the United States, United Kingdom and other countries: Element and Potential value of element link to strategy Operation of element and performance measure Base salary An Executive Directors basic salary is set on The Committee ensures that maximum salary and Provide salaries that appointment and reviewed annually or when fee levels are positioned with consideration of: support the Company there is a change in position or responsibility.
the need to acquire and retain Executives to acquire and retain the When determining an appropriate level of salary, with the skills and experience to develop Executive Directors with the Committee considers: and implement the Companys strategy: the experience and individual degree of responsibility and companies that are comparable in terms of expertise required to experience of the Director: business activities, complexity and size to the develop and implement remuneration structures in companies Company, which the Company would compete the Companys strategy.
that are comparable in terms of business for talent against: and activities, complexity and size: and the norms within the country in which the wider remuneration practices within executive resides.
In general, increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the increase for employees.
The Company sets out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy the salaries for the next year for each of the Executive Directors.
Benefits The Executive Directors are eligible to receive Benefits do not generally represent a significant Provide a benefits Company-provided benefits coverage in the portion of the total remuneration package of package in line with jurisdiction they reside in.
These benefits include: Executive Directors.
practice relative to the medical, life and disability income protection Companys comparator insurance, executive medical assessments, Medical benefits cover is provided through the group to enable the perquisite allowances, car allowance Company Companys US-based self-insured medical plan Company to recruit and paid vehicle lease, relocation support and benefits and is available to all US-based employees.
The retain Executive Directors when applicable, tax advice and tax return fees, cost of providing this benefit varies on utilisation.
with the experience and incremental overseas tax of the Executive expertise to deliver the Directors as well as other customary benefits Perquisite allowances will not exceed 28k Companys strategy.
which are afforded to employees in the same per year.
In some cases, the Company may pay the tax on these services.
Car allowances will not exceed 17k per year.
The Remuneration Committee recognises Tax advice and tax return fees are met by the the need to maintain flexibility in the benefits Company.
provided to Executive Directors to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and Qualified disability cover is 100% of base pay retaining key personnel in order to deliver the for six months.
Qualified long-term disability Companys strategy.
Additional benefits may cover is 60% of base pay up to 15k per month therefore be offered at the discretion of the until the age of 65.
TI Fluid Systems plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Element and Potential value of element link to strategy Operation of element and performance measure Pensions Pension arrangements are provided in line The Companys 401 k pension scheme includes Provides a pension with practice relative to the country in which a Company matching defined contribution provision in line with the Executive Director resides.
customary in the United States which is subject competitive practice to a cap of approximately 10k per year.
The cap to enable the Company The Company operates a defined contribution is subject to change in accordance with US IRS to recruit and retain DC scheme for all US employees.
Employees Code 401 k. Executive Directors who contribute into the Companys 401 k with the experience and pension scheme receive matching Company In the event that a non-US-based Executive expertise to deliver the contributions subject to limits.
Director is engaged, a pension arrangement or Companys strategy.
alternative cash scheme may be implemented If appropriate and at the discretion of the consistent with custom and practice in the Remuneration Committee a competitive pension jurisdiction in which the Executive Director is arrangement or cash alternative may be employed and will not exceed 20% of base salary.
implemented provided that the terms and value of the arrangements are consistent with custom The Company sets out in the section headed and practice of the jurisdiction in which it is to Implementation of Remuneration Policy the be applied.
pension contributions for the next year for each of the Executive Directors.
Annual and Deferred The Remuneration Committee will determine The maximum bonus including any part of the Bonus Plan ABP the bonus to be awarded following the end bonus that is deferred will not exceed 300% The ABP provides an of the relevant financial year based on the of an Executive Directors annual base salary.
incentive to the Executive performance measures set at the beginning Directors linked to of the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee may use different achievement in delivering performance conditions and weightings for each goals that are closely The Company will set out in the Remuneration performance cycle as appropriate, in line with aligned with the report in the following financial year, the nature the strategic needs of the business.
Companys strategy of the targets and their weighting.
and the creation of value The percentage of the bonus earned for levels for shareholders.
Details of the performance conditions, targets of performance will be: and their level of satisfaction for the year being Threshold: 30% of maximum bonus award The Remuneration reported on will be set out in the Annual report Target: 70% of maximum bonus award Committee, at its on remuneration to the extent that they are not Maximum: 100% of maximum bonus award discretion, can further commercially sensitive.
align when appropriate The performance measures for 2018 will be the Executive Directors The Committee can determine that part of the Adjusted Earnings Before Interest and Taxes with shareholders bonus earned under the ABP is provided as an weighted 40%, Adjusted Free Cash Flow through deferral award of shares.
weighted 40% and strategic measures and the increased weighted 20%.
Awards will be calculated equity ownership Typically, the first 100% of salary bonus will using a straight-line scale between Threshold of management be paid fully in cash, with any element payable and Target, and Target and Maximum.
above 100% of salary deferred into ordinary shares of the Company, for two years with no further performance conditions.
The Company will set out in the Remuneration report in the following financial year, the nature of the deferral mechanism being operated for the annual bonus for the awards to be made in that financial year.
The Committee may at its discretion award dividend equivalents on those deferred shares to plan participants to the extent and until vesting.
TI Fluid Systems plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration report continued Element and Potential value of element link to strategy Operation of element and performance measure Long-Term Incentive Awards are granted annually to Executive Normal maximum grant value of up to 300% of Plan LTIP Directors in the form of either a conditional share salary based on the market value at the date of The purpose of the award, nil cost option or restricted share award.
grant set in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
LTIP is to incentivise Details of the performance conditions for grants and reward Executive made in the year will be set out in the 100% of the LTIP award will vest based on the Directors in relation to Remuneration report.
achievement of the performance target with up long-term performance to 133% vesting i. e. 400% of salary based on and achievement of These awards will vest over three years subject to: exceptional performance as measured by the the Companys strategy the Executive Directors continued employment achievement of the outperformance target.
and to act as a retention at the date of vesting: and mechanism.
satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The maximum grant, in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment can be 450% of base salary, The Award is designed The Committee may award dividend equivalents however this does not apply to the current to incentivise Executive on awards in either shares or cash to the extent Executive Directors given their agreed terms.
Directors to grow their that these LTIP awards vest.
shareholding in the The Remuneration Committee retains discretion Company and create The Committee will apply a holding period in exceptional circumstances to change value by successfully of two years post vesting to the LTIP unless performance measures and targets and the delivering the Companys exceptional circumstances arise.
weightings attached to performance measures strategy and increasing part-way through a performance period if there total shareholder value, The Committee will include an override provision is a significant and material event which causes assessed via share price in each LTIP grant, which will give the Committee the Remuneration Committee to believe the and earnings growth.
the discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, to original measures, weightings and targets determine that vesting can be reduced if there are are no longer appropriate.
circumstances relating to the Companys overall performance or otherwise which make vesting The performance measures for 20182020 will when calculated by reference to the performance be Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share Growth conditions alone inappropriate.
weighted 80% and Relative Adjusted Total Shareholder Return against the FTSE 250 The Committee reserves the right to amend weighted 20%.
Vesting will be calculated the performance conditions where there is a using a straight-line scale between Threshold significant change in economic circumstances and Maximum.
or accounting standards and also reserves the power to adjust the number of LTIP shares on The outperformance measure for 20182020 the occurrence of a corporate event or other will be Basic Adjusted Earnings Per Share Growth reorganisation and are not materially less and will fully trigger on the outperformance challenging to satisfy the original conditions.
Malus and clawback The Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan ABP and the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP include standard practice malus and clawback provisions.
Malus is the adjustment of unpaid bonus and deferred share awards under the ABP and outstanding LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments or vested awards under the ABP and vested LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants award and may be effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Group company, discovery that the assessment of any performance condition or condition in respect of an ABP and LTIP award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information, the discovery that any information used to determine the cash payment under the ABP or the number of shares subject to an ABP or LTIP award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct, or events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the participant.
Malus provisions may be applied to the ABP up to the date of payment of a cash bonus and to the end of the two-year deferral period.
This provision may also be applied to the end of the three-year vesting period of the LTIP.
Clawback provisions may be applied to the LTIP for the two years post vesting.
The Committee believes that the rules of the plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
TI Fluid Systems plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Element and Potential value of element link to strategy Operation of element and performance measure Discretion The Remuneration Committee has discretion in several areas of Policy as set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
The Remuneration Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the Policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Minimum shareholding The Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage Executive Directors requirement to build up over a five-year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of the Executive Directors base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the Companys equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: Role Shareholding requirement percentage of salary Executive Directors 300% The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirement.
Non-Executive The Board is responsible for setting the The fees for Non-Executive Directors are Director fees remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
competitive and are outlined on page 58.
Provides a level of fees to support recruitment and Non-Executive Directors receive an annual fee, In general the level of fee increase for the retention of high-calibre paid quarterly in arrears.
Non-Executive Directors will be set taking into Non-Executive Directors account any change in responsibility and the with the necessary Fees are reviewed annually in line with the review general increase in Non-Executive Directors experience to advise and policy for the Executive Directors.
assist with establishing and monitoring the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any The Company will pay reasonable expenses Companys strategic variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
incurred by the Non-Executive Directors and objectives.
may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The Company may also assist with the fees for preparation of annual tax returns.
Historic awards There are no outstanding share awards under any previous share schemes operated by the Company.
Selection of performance targets The table below sets out the performance targets to be applied to the 2018 ABP and LTIP for Executive Directors.
Annual and Deferred Financial performance targets under the ABP are set by the Remuneration Committee, ensuring the Bonus Plan levels to achieve threshold, target or maximum pay out are appropriately challenging.
The performance targets for 2018 are set to ensure delivery of current operational plans and operational efficiency.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of the actual bonus targets, but these targets will be retrospectively published in the Remuneration report for 2018 to the extent that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
Long-Term Incentive Plan The targets under the LTIP are set to reflect the Companys longer-term growth objectives at a level where the maximum and outperformance represents exceptional performance over the long term.
Underlying Basic EPS is considered a simple and clear measure of absolute growth in line with the Companys strategy.
Total Shareholder Return versus a peer group is considered an important focus for the Company in order to align the management team with shareholders.
The Company sets out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy the specifics of the 2018 LTIP for the Executive Directors.
TI Fluid Systems plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration report continued Group employee considerations The Remuneration Committee considers the Executive Directors remuneration in the context of the wider employee population and is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group.
Increases in base salary for Executive Directors will take into account the level of salary increases granted to employees within the Group and the competitive environment of the employing country.
TI Fluid Systems seeks to pay a competitive package of base pay and benefits in each market and at all job levels to attract and retain high-quality employees.
The proportion of variable pay increases with progression through management levels with the highest proportion of variable pay at Executive Director level, as defined by the Remuneration Policy.
Selected senior management and key employees participate in formal short-term and or long-term incentive programmes that are based on financial and other strategic outcomes.
In a number of countries in which the Group operates, due to custom and practice or the Companys desire to apply flexible compensation arrangements, an annual local bonus may be granted to employees based on the achievement of both financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators.
The key element of remuneration for those below senior management grades is base salary and it is the Groups practice to ensure that base salaries are competitive in the local markets.
General pay increases take local salary norms and business conditions into account.
Recruitment policy The section below sets out the Remuneration Committees approach to recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Companys principle objective is that the remuneration of a new Executive Director will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment, when using its discretion, regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments, as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of a new Executive Director is summarised in the table below.
Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits and These will be set in line with the Policy set on page 46. pension Annual and Deferred Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys Policy on page 47 consistent Bonus Plan with existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 300% of salary.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys Policy on page 48 or up to 450% of salary in circumstances the Board considers to be exceptional.
Buyout of incentives Where the Remuneration Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment forfeited on cessation justify the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited of employment on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated considering the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Remuneration Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it is not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement will be used as permitted under the LSE Listing Rules 9.4.
In the event relocation is required, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion in determining the financial limits of relocation assistance considering the needs and location requirements of the Executive Director and Company.
Where an existing employee is appointed to the Board as an Executive Director, the Policy set out above will apply from the date of promotion but there will be no retrospective application of the Policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee will be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These will be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
TI Fluid Systems plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Service contracts and payment for loss of office The section below sets out the Remuneration Committees approach to service contracts and policy on termination payments.
The Remuneration Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
The Executive Directors service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a Change of Control.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Date of service William L. Kozyra Timothy Knutson agreement 23 October 2017 23 October 2017 Employing company TI Group Automotive Systems L. L. C. Contract duration Until 1 July 2021 Until 1 July 2021 Automatically renews annually without notice.
Notice period For Executive Directors, if employment is terminated by the Executive Director without good reason, a six-month notice period is required.
If employment is terminated with good reason, a 30-day notice period is required.
Post 1 July 2021, the Chief Financial Officer may cancel renewal of his contract with 60 days notice.
The Company is not required to provide notice for termination of the Executive Directors contracts.
Post-termination Each Executive Director is subject to a confidentiality undertaking without limitation in time and restrictions to non-compete, non-solicit, and non-interference restrictive covenants for a period post termination of 18 months in the case of the Chief Executive Officer and 12 months in the case of the Chief Financial Officer.
Summary termination The employment of each Executive Director is terminable for cause on 10 business days notice, without payment of any severance or additional benefits.
There will be no entitlement to receive a bonus or be granted an LTIP award and all unvested deferred bonus shares and awards granted under the LTIP will lapse.
Termination Severance In the event of termination without cause, the Executive Directors will be entitled to the following payments payments: In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, i payment of salary up to the termination date: ii any unpaid bonus in respect of the previous financial year: iii a pro rata bonus for the current financial year: iv a pro rata portion of any outstanding and unvested annual LTIP grants for the year of termination and all his annual LTIP grants will fully time vest upon a termination without cause on or after the second anniversary of Admission but where vesting will in all circumstances be subject to the achievement of the applicable performance metrics : v an amount equal to 1.5 times the sum of x his annual basic salary plus y 75% of his annual basic salary for the year in which the termination occurs, payable in equal instalments over an 18-month period.
In the case of the Chief Financial Officer, i payment of salary up to the termination date: ii any unpaid bonus in respect of the previous financial year: iii a pro rata bonus for the current financial year: iv a pro rata portion of any outstanding and unvested LTIP grants for the year of termination: v an amount equal to the sum of his annual basic salary and his target annual bonus, payable in equal instalments over a 12-month period.
Termination Benefits In the event that the Executive Director is terminated without cause, health benefits will be provided for a further 18 months in the case of the CEO and 12 months in the case of the CFO.
TI Fluid Systems plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration report continued Termination Treatment Good leaver reason of ABP Cash and Deferred Performance conditions will be measured at the bonus measurement date.
Bonus payments Share Awards will normally be pro rated for the period worked during the financial year.
All subsisting deferred share awards will vest in full on cessation of employment.
Other No bonus payable for year of cessation.
Lapse of any unvested deferred share awards.
Change of Control In the event of a Change of Control occurring during the Term of Employment, the employee shall be entitled to a pro rata bonus, paid in cash upon consummation of the Change of Control, provided that the employee is employed by the Company through the consummation of the Change of Control.
Deferred shares are released from restrictions at a Change of Control event.
Discretion The Committee has the following elements of discretion: To determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver It is the Remuneration Committees intention only to use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case.
The reasons for the use of discretion if applied will subsequently be disclosed to shareholders: To determine whether to pro rate the bonus for time The Remuneration Committees policy is that it will pro rate bonus for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion not to pro rate only in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case.
The reasons for the use of discretion if applied will subsequently be disclosed to shareholders: To allow vesting of deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and To determine whether to pro rate the maximum number of deferred shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation The Remuneration Committees policy is that it will not pro rate awards for time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether or not to pro rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
Malus and Clawback Malus and Clawback provisions apply to awards under the ABP.
Termination Treatment Good leaver reason of LTIP Pro rated for time and performance in respect of each subsisting LTIP award.
Other Lapse of any unvested LTIP awards.
Change of Control In the event of a Change of Control occurring during the Term of Employment, the Executive Director shall be entitled to a pro rata annual LTIP grant, paid in cash upon consummation of the Change of Control, provided that the employee is employed by the Company through the consummation of the Change of Control.
Discretion The Committee has the following elements of discretion: To determine that an Executive is a good leaver It is the Remuneration Committees intention only to use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: To measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and To determine whether to pro rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation the Remuneration Committees policy is that it will pro rate awards for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention only to use discretion to not pro rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Malus and Clawback Malus and Clawback provisions apply to awards under the LTIP.
TI Fluid Systems plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: ill-health: injury or disability: redundancy: retirement: employing company ceasing to be a Group company: good reason: in other circumstances set forth in the LTIP agreement: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee as described above, except for dishonesty, fraud, misconduct or any other circumstances justifying summary dismissal.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Circumstances constituting good reason for an Executive Director are defined as including: i a material diminution in his title, duties or responsibilities including reporting responsibilities or removal from the Board: ii a material reduction in his annual basic salary or target annual bonus opportunity in each case, other than a reduction of not more than 10% pursuant to an across-the-board reduction applicable to all similarly situated executives : iii a significant relocation of his principal place of employment: or iv TI Group Automotive Systems L. L. C. s failure to fulfil certain obligations under the service agreement.
Upon resignation for good reason, each Executive Director generally is entitled to the same payments and benefits as upon a termination without cause, provided that: a in the case of Mr Kozyra, his outstanding and unvested annual performance share grants will fully vest for time, if he resigns due to not being re-nominated to the Board: and b in the case of Mr Knutson, his cash severance will be increased to an amount equal to two times the sum of his annual basic salary and his target annual bonus, payable in equal instalments over an 18 month period, if the Boards first appointment of a Chief Executive Officer following the termination of Mr Kozyras service as Chief Executive Officer is unacceptable to him.
If Mr Kozyra resigns from his position as Chief Executive Officer after 30 June 2019 and before 1 July 2021, without good reason, he will be entitled to a payment of salary up to the termination date, any unpaid annual bonus for the prior fiscal year, a pro rata bonus for the fiscal year of termination, and a pro rata portion of any outstanding and unvested annual performance share grants provided that, if he continues to serve as a Board member following his resignation, all of his outstanding and unvested annual performance share grants will remain outstanding, and will continue to vest during such Board service: provided, further, if his resignation occurs simultaneously therewith or at some point thereafter as a result of: a the Groups request for him not to serve on the Board or to resign from the Board: or b any action or inaction by the Board to remove him from the Board or not to re-nominate him to the Board, his outstanding and unvested annual performance share grants will fully time vest.
In all cases, vesting of the annual performance share grants remains subject to achievement of the applicable performance metrics.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors of the Company do not have service contracts, but are appointed by letter of appointment.
Each Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for an initial period of three years unless terminated earlier upon written notice or upon their resignation.
The terms of the Non-Executive Directors appointments are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting scheduled to be held on 17 May 2018 and to re-election at any subsequent Annual General Meeting at which the Non-Executive Directors stand for re-election.
The details of each Non-Executive Directors current term are set out below: Notice Notice Current periods by periods by Committee term full Company Director Name Date of appointment Membership years months months Manfred Wennemer 18 September 2016 N 3 1 1 Neil Carson 16 September 2016 A, R, N 3 1 1 John Smith 24 October 2017 A, R 3 1 1 Jeffrey Vanneste 24 October 2017 A, R 3 1 1 Paul Edgerley 24 October 2017 N See note below Stephen Thomas 24 October 2017 See note below A: Audit & Risk Committee.
Paul Edgerley and Stephen Thomas represent one of the Companys shareholders and their appointment will terminate in accordance with the Relationship Agreement: further details are set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 32 to 43.
TI Fluid Systems plc 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration scenarios The charts below illustrate the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on current salaries under five different performance scenarios: i Below Threshold: ii Threshold: iii Target: iv Maximum: v Outperformance Maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i Fixed: ii ABP: and iii LTIP.
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
William Kozyra Value of package 000s William Kozyra Composition of package % Fixed Fixed ABP ABP LTIP LTIP Outperformance Outperformance Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Threshold Below Threshold 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Timothy Knutson Value of package 000s Timothy Knutson Composition of package % Fixed Fixed ABP ABP LTIP LTIP Outperformance Outperformance Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Threshold Below Threshold 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee considers pay and employment conditions across the Company when reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior employees.
The Remuneration Committee considers the range of base pay increases across the Group.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the Remuneration Policy set out in this report, the Company does receive updates from the Executive Directors on their discussions and reviews with senior management and employees.
Consideration of shareholder views The Company welcomes dialogue with its shareholders, and the Remuneration Committee will consult with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Remuneration Policy.
TI Fluid Systems plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration Introduction This section sets out details of the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors received during the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and also describes the operation of the Remuneration Committee.
For clarity, some elements of Executive Directors remuneration set out in the following report includes payments made prior to the Companys listing and were not subject to the Remuneration Policy.
The Annual report on remuneration will, together with the Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 44 to 45, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2018.
In preparing this report consideration has been given to the GC100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee was established on 24 October 2017.
Neil Carson is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The other members of the Remuneration Committee are John Smith and Jeffrey Vanneste.
There were no formal meetings of the Committee during the year and the Committee has met once between IPO and the publication of this report.
The Board considers each of the members of the Committee to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive and or other persons may also attend meetings of the Committee by invitation but will not be present when matters relating to their own remuneration are discussed.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference which are available to shareholders on request and on the Companys website www.
Its role includes: setting the Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors of the Company, the Chairman of the Board and senior management: within the terms of the Remuneration Policy and in consultation with the Chairman of the Board and or Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate, determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director, Non-Executive Director and the Chairman including bonuses, incentive payments and share option or other share awards: approve the design of, and determine targets for, the ABP and LTIP and approve total annual payments made under such schemes: and ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
In carrying out its duties the Remuneration Committee takes into account any legal and regulatory requirements, including the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Listing Rules.
Determining the fees of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Executive Directors and the Chairman as a whole.
Advisers to the Committee The Committee receives advice and guidance on Executive Directors remuneration from the Chief HR Officer, and the Company Secretary in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code and share schemes.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and ensures that the Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its Terms of Reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee on relevant regulatory developments in the UK.
TI Fluid Systems plc 55 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration Directors audited information The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive and Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the prior year: 1,3.4 Total before share Basic salary Taxable based 1 1 1 7 1,7 2 fees benefits Annual bonus LTIP Pension Other transactions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 4 2,5 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Executive Directors William Kozyra 875 875 51 47 3,681 3,954 See notes 10 10 3,364 7 7,981 4,893 Timothy Knutson 542 542 30 29 2,453 2,450 See notes 10 10 2,127 7 5,162 3,038 Non-Executive Directors Manfred Wennemer 150 1,023 1,173 Neil Carson 112 341 453 John Smith 20 341 361 Jeffrey Vanneste 20 341 361 6 Paul Edgerley 6 Stephen Thomas 1 Figures in the table above are converted at the following exchange rates: 1 $1.2 and 1 0.89, except as otherwise noted.
2 As part of the successful IPO, awards were granted on Admission to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to recognise their contribution to the business in the lead up to Admission.
William Kozyra and Timothy Knutson were provided with a cash award of 2,500,000 and 1,666,667 respectively.
In addition, a one-off reimbursement of 857,457 and 454,897 for the CEO and CFO respectively was paid.
3 As part of the reorganisation of the share capital of the Company prior to the IPO, the Executive Directors agreed to waive their interests in options previously granted in 2015 to them in connection with the acquisition of the Group by funds managed by Bain Capital the Historic Pre-IPO Options.
As a result, the Historic Pre-IPO Options were cancelled, and ordinary shares with an equivalent economic value were issued to the Executive Directors as consideration for such cancellation.
At the time of issue, these ordinary shares had a market value, at Offer Price, of approximately 21.9 million for Mr Kozyra and 10.9 million for Mr Knutson.
If the value of these shares is included as remuneration in 2017, total remuneration for 2017 would have been 29.9 million and 16.1 million, respectively.
4 A portion of the Historic Pre-IPO Options vested in 2016 having a value of 2.0 million for Mr Kozyra and 1.0 million for Mr Knutson, based on 2016 fair market valuation and using a to exchange rate of 0.88.
5 In conjunction with the IPO, Mr Wennemer received a bonus payment of 1,022,722 and Mr Carson, Mr Smith and Mr Vanneste each received a bonus payment of 340,909.
Each of these Directors use the net after tax proceeds of their bonus to purchase shares at the offer price.
6 Paul Edgerley and Stephen Thomas represent funds managed by Bain Capital, the Companys largest shareholders, and are not remunerated and receive no payment from the Company with respect to their qualifying services as Non-Executive Directors.
7 Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join a Company pension scheme.
Executive Directors pension audited information See table above for Executive Directors pension information.
Neither of the Executive Directors are entitled to a defined benefit pension.
Executive Directors Annual bonus for 2017 performance audited In respect of the 2017 financial year, the bonus awards payable to the Executive Directors were agreed by the Remuneration Committee having reviewed the Groups results.
Bonus awards in 2017 were based on a share of Adjusted EBITDA, payable at a rate of 0.75% and 0.5% to William Kozyra and Timothy Knutson, respectively.
Based on the above, in the year to 31 December 2017 annual bonus awards of 3,681k $4,417k will be paid to William Kozyra and 2,453k $2,944k will be paid to Timothy Knutson, based on Company reporting Adjusted EBITDA of 490.7m.
The 2017 bonus scheme was put in place prior to the IPO with the entire bonus to be paid in cash, consistent with previous years practice as a private company.
The structure of the 2018 bonus scheme is set out in the Remuneration Policy.
Payments to past Directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors: neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
TI Fluid Systems plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors in the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2017 are shown in the table below: Other Shares held directly shares held Options Shareholding requirement Deferred LTIP shares not interests subject to subject to Shareholding Current Beneficially performance performance Vested but requirement shareholding owned conditions conditions unexercised Unvested % of salary met?
Executive Directors William Kozyra 7,433,622 7,433,622 0 0 0 0 300% Yes Timothy Knutson 3,568,921 3,568,921 0 0 0 0 300% Yes Non-Executive Directors Manfred Wennemer 185,364 185,364 0 0 0 0 n a Neil Carson 62,686 62,686 0 0 0 0 n a John Smith 58,483 58,483 0 0 0 0 n a Jeffrey Vanneste 58,483 58,483 0 0 0 0 n a Total shareholder return TI Fluid Systems plc was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 25 October 2017 and given the short trading period to 31 December 2017 it is not felt to be appropriate to present a comparison of performance versus a comparator in the report this year.
A Total Shareholder Return chart will be provided in next years Remuneration report.
Comparison of Company performance and CEO remuneration over five-year period As this is the Companys first Annual Report since its listing on 25 October 2017, historic CEO data is reported for 2016 and 2017 consistent with disclosures made in the IPO prospectus.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared with employees % increase decrease in remuneration in 2017 compared with remuneration in 2016 CEO All employees Salary 0% 2.4% Annual bonus 6.9% 8.9% Benefits No material change No material change in benefits policy or in benefits policy or cost between 2016 cost between 2016 and 2017 and 2017 Note: All employee comparator group consists of all employees globally.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2016 and 2017 financial periods.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Companys accounts.
Disbursements Disbursements from profit in from profit in 2017 financial year 2016 financial year m m Profit distributed by way of dividend Nil Nil Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 843.7 806.5 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors in 2018 The following section summarises how remuneration arrangements will be operated from 1 January 2018 onwards.
Salary Salary reviews will normally be carried out in December every year and take effect from January in the following year.
No base salary increases are proposed for 2018.
The table below sets out the annual salary of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in 2018, and the comparison with the annual salary received in 2017.
2018 2017 Increase in Executive Director 000 000 salary William Kozyra 875 875 Nil Timothy Knutson 542 542 Nil Exchange rate 1 $1.2.
TI Fluid Systems plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration report continued Benefits and pension No changes are proposed to benefits or pension arrangements in 2018, with the exception of the defined contribution match cap increasing by 188 exchange rate 1 $1.2.
Annual bonus ABP The operation of the bonus plan for 2018 will be consistent with the framework detailed in the Remuneration Policy section of this report.
The maximum opportunity for the year ending 31 December 2018 will be 300% of salary for all Executive Directors.
Up to the first 100% of salary will be paid in cash, with the remainder of any bonus payment under the ABP deferred into an award of shares to be held for two years and will also be subject to malus and clawback provisions as detailed in the Policy.
The proposed target levels are challenging with performance conditions comprising of Adjusted Earnings Before Interest and Taxes 40%, Adjusted Free Cash Flow 40% and Strategic Measures 20%.
Specific targets will not be disclosed because the Remuneration Committee consider forward-looking targets to be commercially sensitive.
However, the Committee intends to disclose these retrospectively in next years Remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP Awards It is intended the Executive Directors will receive an LTIP award in 2018 of 300% of salary which can increase to 133% if outperformance is achieved, i. e. 400% of salary in total.
Consistent with the framework detailed in the Remuneration Policy section of this report the performance measures and weighting of the 2018 LTIP are Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share Growth 80%, Relative Adjusted Total Shareholder Return versus the FTSE 250 20%.
The sole outperformance measure for up to 133% of maximum is Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share Growth.
The Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share Growth performance conditions are 4% Compound Annual Growth Rate at Threshold which will vest at 20% of Maximum: and 10% Compound Annual Growth Rate which will vest at Maximum.
Vesting will occur on a straight-line basis between Threshold and Maximum.
The Relative Adjusted Total Shareholder Return performance conditions are Median Rank at Threshold which will vest at 25% of Maximum: and Upper Quartile Rank at Maximum.
The Adjusted Basic Earnings Per Share Growth outperformance condition is 12% Compound Annual Growth Rate, which will trigger an award of 133% of the award earned under the previous two performance measures.
All measures are assessed over a three-year performance period.
The LTIP contains malus and clawback provisions.
Please refer to page 48 for further details.
External Board appointments Subject to Board approval, the Company will permit its Executive Directors to hold non-executive positions outside of the Company that complement and enhance their current role.
Any fees received by the Executive Director may be retained by the Director.
William Kozyra has been a non-executive at American Axle & Manufacturing Holdings, Inc since January 2015 and he retains fees in respect of this appointment.
Fees for the year 2017 were 197,935 including an equivalent value of restricted shares.
Implementation of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The annual fees for serving as a Non-Executive Director were reviewed and agreed by the Board prior to the IPO.
The fee levels that will apply during 2018 are set out below.
Base fees 2018 fees Chairman 300,000 Senior Independent Director 117,000 Non-Executive Director 94,000 Additional fees Audit & Risk Committee Chair Included in base fees Remuneration Committee Chair Included in base fees Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 29 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Neil Carson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 March 2018 TI Fluid Systems plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
