Fidessa group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Committees of the Board The constitution and responsibilities of the Boards Committees are set out below.
Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2017.
The Committee continues to believe that a significant proportion of the remuneration for the executive directors should be performance-related.
The elements of each executives package that are performance-related are the annual variable pay, which is directly linked to the years operating profit, and long-term share incentives.
These elements are underpinned by a competitive salary but with very limited benefits.
These principles are reflected in the updated remuneration policy.
The Committee undertook a review of the remuneration policy in 2016 leading to a new policy receiving the support of over 99.5% of shareholders at our 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee remains comfortable that no structural changes are considered necessary to the policy or its implementation for the forthcoming year, save that during the year the Committee has proposed the introduction of relative Total Shareholder Return TSR as an additional measure for the 2018 and future Performance Share Plan PSP grants.
For 2017, the Committee reviewed executive director remuneration levels taking into account market conditions, the financial performance of Fidessa and the Groups UK employees.
Following that review, Andy Skeltons basic salary was increased by 3.3% which was consistent with the Groups UK employee salary increases with Chris Aspinwalls remaining unchanged from 2016.
The Committee agreed that the total annual variable pay opportunity for the executive directors should remain unchanged.
As in previous years, when setting the operating profit threshold for the executive directors annual variable pay, the Committee considered the market conditions at the time, Fidessas projected financial performance for the year and stakeholders interests.
For 2017, the Committee increased the operating profit threshold by 10%.
For 2018, the Committee has agreed that any increase in executive directors salaries will take into account and reflect sensitivities in relation to the percentage increase received by the Groups UK employees.
There will be no change in benefits save that Andy Skelton has elected to make contributions to the Companys pension scheme and will receive a 3% matching contribution in line with other employees.
Additionally, Chris Aspinwalls and Andy Skeltons annual variable pay will continue to be aligned to operating profit performance consistent with the approach taken since 2013.
The Committee is aware of the latest developments surrounding executive pay, particularly those from institutional shareholders.
In late 2017, we engaged with major shareholders to outline proposed changes to how we operate our policy, specifically the introduction of a relative total shareholder return measure for one third of our 2018 and future PSP grants.
The shareholders consulted were generally supportive of this change and therefore, beginning with the next PSP grant later in 2018, relative TSR will be introduced as a measure for one third of the award, with cumulative growth in adjusted EPS continuing to be used as a measure for the remaining two thirds.
Ken Archer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Fidessa group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report has been split into two sections: the Directors Remuneration Policy, which sets out the policy on the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors which became effective on 26th April 2017 and is intended will remain in place until the AGM in 2020, and an Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses the directors remuneration for the year ended 31st December 2017.
Fidessa will be seeking shareholders support for the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy in an advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors remuneration policy The document below is an extract of the Directors Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The complete version of the Directors Remuneration Policy is available in the 2016 Annual Report which may be found at www.
Extracts included below are: the remuneration policy for the executive and non-executive directors, metrics used in variable pay, Committee discretions, payments for loss of office for future directors and remuneration policy for new directors.
Up to date details of the long-term incentives granted to the executive directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Executive directors remuneration policy Salary Executive directors salaries are normally reviewed with effect from 1st January each year.
When setting salary levels the Committee takes into account an individuals experience, knowledge and performance in the role, business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Committees remuneration advisers.
Maintaining this alignment is one of the factors the Committee takes into account when setting salary levels.
This approach should assist in the recruitment, motivation and retention of high performing individuals.
In addition, the Committee considers the salary increases being provided to Fidessa employees over recent years and the period under review to take account of potential sensitivity of salary increases to executive directors.
Fidessa group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Benefits Benefits are very limited as the Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Current benefits include life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
The benefits offered may vary during the policy period but they shall not exceed those benefits generally offered to employees.
Any reasonable business expenses and any tax thereon that are deemed to be taxable benefits by HMRC may also be reimbursed by the Company.
For any international recruitment and or overseas assignment benefits may be tailored to comply with local market legislation, regulation or cultural norms.
Annual The purpose of the annual variable pay award is to reward the performance of the executive directors variable based on an annual business target s. It is currently based on financial performance measures pay which are reviewed annually and will be aligned to the Groups strategic objectives at that time.
The Committee may revise the performance criteria in the event of an acquisition or disposal.
The applicable sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration set out details of the performance measures and the operation of the annual variable pay award.
Should the Committee impose nonfinancial performance measures the annual variable pay award will still be primarily based on financial performance measures.
To be consistent with other tiers of management, annual variable pay award is currently paid in two instalments, interim and final payments being paid after the half year and final results are announced, respectively.
The proportion of the variable pay award payable as an interim award is around one third of the anticipated final award.
In the unlikely event that the overall annual variable pay award is less than that already paid as an interim award, the excess will be clawed back.
This directly aligns the annual variable pay award with financial performance, whilst at the same time avoids rewarding for poor performance.
A component of the annual variable pay award may be deferred in shares for three years, subject to continued employment, through the use of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP : thus encouraging a longer term focus.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on deferred annual variable pay awards at the time at which the award vests.
The Committee will take into consideration the executive directors shareholdings and existing long-term share-based incentives when determining whether deferral of a proportion of an annual variable payment is appropriate or not.
The maximum annual variable pay award is capped at 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for any other executive director.
The minimum percentage of salary payable at threshold is 0%.
Up to 50% of the annual variable pay award will normally be deferred under the DABP.
Annual variable pay is subject to clawback and withholding provisions.
Long-term Long-term incentives are an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined with incentives other forms of remuneration.
Such incentives are also key to aligning long-term remuneration with the long-term interests of shareholders.
These incentives also encourage employee retention and sustainable performance when measured over multiple years.
The current primary long-term incentive plan the executive directors can receive awards from is the PSP which was approved by shareholders in May 2011.
Fidessa group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Long-term Subject to approval by shareholders, PSP awards granted from 2017 onwards will have a vesting incentives and performance period of at least three years.
Awards with a three year vesting period will also be continued subject to an additional holding period of at least two years during which the executive directors are normally unable to sell vested awards, other than to settle any tax or NICs due on vesting of awards.
The maximum annual award under the PSP to an executive director is 500,000 based on the market value of the shares at the time of the award.
When determining the value of the grants to the executive directors, the Committee takes into account, and ensures consistency with, the awards granted to other employees.
No more than 25% of the total award may vest at threshold.
Awards will be subject to performance conditions which are aligned to the Groups longer term strategy.
The performance measures for awards in the current financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee has discretion to introduce more measures or change the weighting of measures for each years awards so that they are directly aligned with Fidessas strategic objectives for each performance period.
The Committee will normally consult with its major shareholders before implementing any major changes to the measures used.
The PSP is subject to clawback and withholding provisions.
Pension The pr o vision of pension benefits ma y be important in helping Fidessa attr act and r ecruit high performing individuals.
Directors are eligible to participate in a money purchase pension scheme or receive a cash alternative allowance: the executive directors do not currently participate in the scheme.
The maximum contribution or allowance that Fidessa may make to a directors money purchase pension scheme shall be consistent with other employees in the same location.
Fidessa currently matches the contributions of employees participating in the UK money purchase pension scheme up to a maximum of 3% of salary consistent with other UK employees.
Any such pension benefits will be taken into consideration when agreeing a directors salary so that it does not result in an inappropriate proportion of fixed remuneration.
All-employee The executive directors are also eligible to participate in all-employee share plans approved by share shareholders on the same terms as other employees.
These plans have standard terms and, where scheme applicable, are subject to timing set by HMRC from time to time.
Share Executive directors are encouraged to build a material holding in the Group to align interests ownership with shareholders.
guidelines As such and with effect from approval of this policy, executive directors are expected to retain at least 50% of shares from vested awards other than sales to settle any tax or NICs due until they hold at least 200% of salary in the case of the Chief Executive Officer and 150% in the case of the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee has discretion to allow flexibility regarding achieving the share ownership guideline in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee will review progress against the guideline on an annual basis.
Fidessa group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued When considering annual variable pay targets the Committee takes into account the directors on target earnings i. e. salary and variable pay for the year and sets a target level that is appropriately demanding taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time and the expected financial performance for the year.
The Committee chooses financial performance measures which are simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
The financial performance measures consist of a threshold and a sliding scale of payment once that threshold has been achieved up to the relevant cap, as described in the table above.
In relation to the PSP, growth in EPS was chosen as the performance measure for the 2016 awards which the Committee considers appropriate, as the vesting of an award requires an improvement in Fidessas financial performance.
Additionally, in the event that total shareholder return is below that of the FTSE techMARK Index over the performance period, the Committee reserves the right to scale back the awards if it feels the level of vesting based on EPS performance is, in the opinion of the Committee, inappropriate.
Such measures are simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
When setting performance measures for the variable incentive plans in future years the Committee will consider the strategic priorities at the start of each financial year award cycle.
Targets will be set on a sliding scale where possible with a minority of the maximum potential payable for achieving threshold performance.
The target range will be set after considering a number of reference points, which may include internal financial forecasts, market consensus and a view of broader macroeconomic conditions.
The Committee will operate all incentive plans in accordance with their respective plan rules, the Listing Rules and relevant legislation where required.
Committee discretions The Committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans and executive director remuneration, the Committee will apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: if an event occurs which results in the annual variable pay award or PSP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, departure of a director etc the Committee will have the ability in limited circumstances to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings: determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment: and undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the annual variable pay award and PSP from year to year.
Fidessa group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The chart below illustrates the levels of remuneration that would be received by each executive director at different levels of performance for 2018. s s PSP PSP Chris Aspinwall Andy Skelton  Variable Variable Base Base   Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum The illustration above, which excludes benefits and awards under the SIP as they represent a very small amount, was calculated based on the following assumptions: minimum remuneration is solely fixed remuneration comprising salary and, in the case of Andy Skelton, a pension contribution equal to 9,000 Chris Aspinwall does not participate in the Fidessa pension plan : on target remuneration comprises fixed remuneration, annual variable pay including any deferred amount for the year calculated on principles similar to those applied in 2017 with an on target variable pay value of 90% and 50% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively and the maximum allowed PSP award, valued at the time of the award with a face value of 500,000 and a vesting of 25% during the year valued at the grant price: and maximum remuneration comprises fixed remuneration, the annual bonus including any deferred amount based on the maximum multiple of salary achievable with a maximum value of 125% and 100% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer respectively and a PSP award, valued at the time of the award with a face value of 500,000 and 100% vesting during the year valued at the grant price.
The assumptions for on target performance in the graph above are provided for illustrative purposes only and, in accordance with the regulations, do not make any assumptions as to future share price growth.
Fidessa group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Non-executive directors remuneration policy Fees The fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors are paid monthly and reviewed annually taking into account time commitment, responsibilities and fees paid by listed companies with a similar market capitalisation.
The Committee sets the Chairmans fee and the Board, excluding the non-executive directors, sets the non-executive directors fees.
The fee increases will take into account the outcome of the annual review and other factors, such as inflation.
Additional fees for non-executive directors for duties outside the ordinary course of their service or for taking on additional responsibilities may be payable to reflect the time and responsibility involved.
Benefits The Chairman is entitled to life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
Those benefits shall be provided on terms that are no better than those available to other employees.
Other non-executives do not normally receive benefits but may be provided with travel and or hospitality r ela t ed benefits as part of the perf ormanc e of their r oles.
In addition, all r easonable business related expenses including any tax thereon will be reimbursed.
Other The Chairman participates in the SIP on terms that are no better than those available to other employees.
Fidessa provides a matching share for each share purchased in the SIP.
The Chairmans participation in the SIP may not be greater than the maximum allowed in the plan rules and or relevant legislation which may change from time to time.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to any annual variable pay and are not eligible to participate in the long-term incentive or pension schemes offered by the Company.
Payments for loss of office future directors In the event of termination, the directors will receive payments for loss of office in accordance with the termination provisions of their service contracts, letters of appointment as applicable and any discretions available to the Committee.
No executive director is entitled to receive any annual variable pay award in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
Termination provisions for new directors will be no more favourable than those set out in the current Chief Financial Officers service contract.
The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
The Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interest of the Company.
Fidessa group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration policy for new directors In the event that a new executive director is appointed or a new service contract is entered into, the service contract would be subject to a notice period of not greater than 12 months with the director entitled to receive salary, benefits as well as participate in the annual variable pay scheme and share plans.
The remuneration package for the new director would be set in accordance with the terms of Fidessas approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment whilst at the same time reflecting the experience and skill of the individual.
The new directors total remuneration would be set taking account of comparative packages as advised by the Committees remuneration advisers and the proportions of the various elements of the remuneration package would be broadly similar to those relating to the current executive directors, taking into account local market legislation, regulatory constraints and cultural norms.
The salary for a new executive will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys target pay positioning and the market rate for the role in the relevant location, subject to the overall goal of attaining the right candidate.
Where it is appropriate to do so, salaries may be set below the market rate, with phased increases over the first few years as the individual gains experience in the role.
Different measures and targets under the annual variable pay plan or the PSP may be set initially, taking account of the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they join.
A new employee may be granted a normal annual PSP award in the first year of employment in addition to any awards made with respect to prior employment being forfeited.
Where the Committee has considered it to be in the best interest of Fidessa and its shareholders it may offer additional cash and or share-based elements on a one-time basis: such payments would be limited to the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer to take up a position with Fidessa and would reflect the delivery mechanism e. g. cash, shares, options, time horizons and whether performance requirements are attached to that remuneration.
If it is not possible, or not considered appropriate, to match the delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirements of such payment for lost remuneration then the Committee has the discretion to recommend that a payment be made on terms that it considers to be no more favourable than the payment terms for the lost remuneration.
Existing arrangements will be used to the extent possible subject to the limits set out in the policy : however, the Committee retains discretion to use the flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make such awards.
Shareholders will be informed of such payments at the time of appointment.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
Other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue as appropriate, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that Fidessa will meet reasonable legal expenses, and or relocation expenses in line with market practice.
The appointment of non-executive directors shall be on terms substantially similar to those of the existing nonexecutive directors and in accordance with the remuneration policy for non-executive directors applicable at the time.
Fidessa group plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Employees and shareholders Fidessa expects the total remuneration for employees to be at a level appropriate to attract, recruit, motivate and retain the most suitable individuals.
Employees receive a bonus, which in many cases will be a percentage of salary with an element determined by personal performance and an element determined by Fidessas financial performance.
For more senior employees, a higher proportion of remuneration is payable as a bonus.
The benefits available are dependent on market practice in each country.
The pension scheme available to an employee varies according to location with contributions at a competitive level for each country: Fidessa only offers defined contribution pension schemes.
There is no formal mechanism through which Fidessa consults with employees when determining executive directors remuneration but the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration policy for employees when reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors.
Fidessas shareholders have historically been very supportive of the remuneration philosophy and policy.
On the occasions that dialogue has been required, this has been constructive and positive.
The Committee has consulted with its major shareholders and representative shareholder bodies, the majority of whom were supportive of the changes being introduced for 2017.
In the interests of maintaining an open and transparent approach to remuneration, the Committee will consult with major shareholders before making any material changes to the remuneration policy.
As has been the case in the past, the Committee will consider shareholder feedback provided for the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and throughout the year when setting the overall policy.
Annual report on remuneration Membership, meetings and evaluation During the year the Committee comprised Ken Archer Committee Chairman, Elizabeth Lake, John Worby, Richard Longdon and Ishbel Macpherson.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, to the extent disclosed in this report, conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman and executive directors may attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
As announced by the Company on 2nd January 2018, Elizabeth Lake retired from the Board and all committees on 31st December 2017.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and, if necessary, updated annually and are available at www.
The Committee is responsible for determining the policy and application for remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share plans, for executive directors, senior management and the Chairman.
Remuneration consultants During the year, the Committee took independent advice from its retained remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, part of Aon plc.
Aon is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
Aon provided advice on general remuneration matters.
Aon does not provide other services to Fidessa.
The Aon group provides other services to Fidessa, namely insurance broking and pensions provision, but the Committee is comfortable that this additional relationship does not create a conflict of interest.
Fidessa group plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Aon was appointed in 2008 following a selection process involving other remuneration advisors.
The Committee regularly monitors the effectiveness of the advice received from Aon and is comfortable that the advice given during the year under review is objective and independent.
For the year under review, Aon received fees of 59,000 in connection with its work for the Committee.
Single figure of director total remuneration The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive and non-executive director for the financial year ended 31st December 2017.
Benefits: Taxable value of benefits received in the year by directors includes private health insurance, death in service cover, ill health income protection and mobile phone stipend.
Other: This figure includes awards of SIP shares.
Richard Longdon and Ishbel Macpherson were appointed to the Board on 1st March 2017 and 1st May 2017 respectively.
Fidessa group plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Annual variable pay Fidessas approach to variable pay for 2017 was consistent with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders and the approach used since 2013 and the table below sets out the annual variable pay thresholds and percentages for the directors.
Annual variable pay as Operating Percentage Annual a percentage Operating profit payable above variable pay of maximum 000 profit threshold the threshold amount opportunity Chris Aspinwall 2017 42,394 22,000 1.94% 396 66% 2016 44,603 20,000 2.15% 529 88% Andy Skelton 2017 42,394 22,000 0.70% 143 46% 2016 44,603 20,000 0.70% 172 57% Operating profit as monitored by the Operating Board disclosed in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The executive directors annual variable pay is calculated as a flat percentage above a threshold of the operating profit as monitored by the Operating Board disclosed in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee can, if it deems appropriate, exclude items that it considers to be exceptional or inappropriate.
No such items were excluded during the year.
When setting both the threshold and the flat percentage the Committee takes into account Fidessas approved plan for the year and the directors on target earnings i. e. salary and variable pay for the year.
The annual plan is approved at the beginning of each financial year following consideration by the Board.
2014 PSP On 27th March 2014, awards were granted under the Fidessa PSP to Chris Aspinwall.
The performance measurement period ended on 31st December 2017, with the following outcome: Performance % of award Award Measure Weighting Vesting scale achieved vesting 2014 EPS 100% No vesting if EPS growth below 8% p. a.
2.2% EPS 0% 25% vests if EPS growth equal 8% p. a.
100% vests if EPS growth exceeds 15%.
Straight-line pro rata basis from 25% to 100% if EPS growth exceeds 8% p. a. but is less than 15%.
Share price Number Number Number at end of of shares of shares of shares performance Value at granted % vested vested lapsed period vesting Chris Aspinwall 15,000 0 0 15,000 2382p 0p Value estimated as not fully vested until 27th March 2018 and is based on the three month average share price to 31 December 2017 of 2382p per share.
Fidessa group plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Awards under current share plans During the year the following grants were made to the directors under the current share plans.
Andy Skelton received an award on 21st March 2017 under Part A of the DABP, representing the deferred element of annual variable pay for the year ended 31st December 2016, details of which were disclosed in Fidessas 2016 Annual Report.
The specific details of each component are set out over the following sections of the report.
In addition, in line with other employees, certain directors received matching shares under the SIP throughout the year.
The tables below set out the details of those awards.
No awards were made under the PSP during the year.
DABP awards Face value of DABP DABP award awards Basis of at date Threshold Date of Number DABP of grant Vesting vesting grant of shares award 000 period % of award Andy Skelton 21st March 3,427 50% of 87 3 years from 100% 2017 annual the date bonus of grant Based on the share price of 2534p on the day before grant.
SIP awards SIP awards Threshold Number Basis of Face value Vesting vesting % of shares SIP award 000 period of award Chris Aspinwall 63 1:1 match for 2 3 years from 100% Andy Skelton 63 partnership 2 the date John Hamer 63 shares acquired 2 of grant Details of the current and previous share plans together with the total permitted dilution in relation to those share plans are set out in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
No director received any pension benefit or entitlement from Fidessa.
Fidessa group plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Directors shareholdings Following approval by shareholders of the new Directors Remuneration Policy, the shareholding guidelines from 2017 onwards changed to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% for the Chief Financial Officer, with progress towards the new guidelines being met by the retention of at least 50% of vesting long-term incentive awards currently the PSP net of tax and exercise costs.
In addition, the guidelines also permit executive directors discretion to nominate such other of their reportable holdings to count towards the minimum shareholding requirement.
The interests of the directors and their connected persons in Fidessas ordinary shares as at 31st December 2017 were as follows: Shareholding to count Performance towards against Vested Unvested Reportable shareholding shareholding Deferred performance performance Shareholding guideline guideline shares shares shares Chris Aspinwall 124,979 20,969 106% 430 15,000 Andy Skelton 1,642 1,642 13% 15,054 15,000 John Hamer 90,386 430 Richard Longdon Ron Mackintosh 5,000 Elizabeth Lake John Worby 2,000 Ken Archer 1,500 Ishbel Macpherson Chris Aspinwall elected for a shareholding equivalent to 100% of his base salary as at 1st January 2017 to count towards his progress in meeting the shareholding guidelines.
For the purposes of calculating compliance with the guidelines, these pledged shares are valued based on the closing price of 2289p on 31st December 2016. based on a closing share price of 2531p on 31st December 2017.
Between 31st December 2017 and the date of this report following the regular monthly purchase by the SIP, John Hamers and Chris Aspinwalls interests increased by five shares and Andy Skeltons interests increased by six shares.
Total shareholder return performance The graph below illustrates, for statutory purposes, the total shareholder return TSR of Fidessas shares against the techMARK All-Share Index and the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts for the period from 1st January 2009 to 31st December 2017.
TSR is derived from the movements in the share price plus dividends reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
TSR provides a useful, widely used benchmark to illustrate Fidessas performance over the last nine years.
Specifically, it illustrates the value of 100 invested in Fidessas shares and in techMARK All-Share Index and FTSE 250 Index over that period.
Fidessa group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Total shareholder return Fidessa plc FTSE 250 techMARK All-Share 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters The techMARK All-Share Index was previously chosen as the comparator because Fidessa was, and continues to be, a constituent of that index and it was the index used for the purposes of measuring relative performance in the underpin of PSP awards previously granted.
From 2018 the Committee considers it to be more appropriate to use the FTSE 250 Index, due to Fidessas closer correlation with that index, for the purpose of comparing TSR performance and accordingly this will be used as the criteria applied to 33% of the PSP awards to be granted in March 2018.
Further details of the proposed performance conditions for the 2018 PSP awards are set in the table titled Directors remuneration for the year commencing 1st January 2018.
Total remuneration for the Chief Executive The table below shows the total remuneration and amounts received by the Chief Executive under Fidessas variable pay and long-term incentive plans, both expressed as a percentage of the maximum of the amount receivable for a period of nine years.
Chief Chief Variable pay Vested longExecutives Executives Chief received as a term incentives salary, variable vested long-term Executives total percentage of as a percentage pay and benefits incentives remuneration the maximum of the maximum 000 000 000 receivable receivable 2009 841 841 80% 0% 2010 853 51 904 82% 88% 2011 920 1,065 1,985 82% 99% 2012 885 30 915 60% 6% 2013 846 576 1,422 61% 98% 2014 922 922 74% 0% 2015 859 859 63% 0% 2016 1,012 1,012 88% 0% 2017 879 879 66% 0% Fidessa group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the sum of salary, benefits and variable pay of the Chief Executive and all UK employees for recent years.
Fidessa considers the comparator group of all UK employees excluding the Chief Executive to be representative of Fidessa as a whole and a global comparator group would not result in a material variance.
Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage Percentage annual annual annual annual annual annual annual annual change for change for for Chief change for change for change for change for change for Chief UK Executives UK employees Chief UK Chief UK Executives employees annual annual Executives employees Executives employees salary salary variable pay variable pay benefits benefits total total 2016 0.0% 2.8% 40.3% 7.2% 0.0% 0.0% 17.8% 3.4% 2017 0.0% 3.5% -25.3% 4.0% 0.0% 0.0% -13.0% 3.7% Relative importance of spend on pay Fidessas employees are vital to the growth and success of the business.
As a software business with a strategy focused on organic development, its primary costs are related to its employees.
The strategy also delivers a stable margin and strong cash flows.
The cash generation has allowed Fidessa to distribute the majority of profit after tax to shareholders in the form of annual and special dividends.
The profit and corporation tax figures have been included to provide greater context to employee remuneration and the total distributions to shareholders.
Profit Staff Profit Corporation after tax remuneration before tax tax Corporation Dividends distributed to 000 000 000 tax rate 000 shareholders 2016 142,113 48,820 13,066 26.8% 32,493 91% 2017 150,813 49,965 14,282 28.5% 35,994 101% Fidessa group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Unexpired term of contract table Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are set out below.
All directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Approximate Date of original Date of reunexpired term as at Notice period Director appointment appointment 31st December 2017 under contract Chris Aspinwall 2nd June 1997 12 months 12 months Andy Skelton 26th October 2015 12 months 12 months John Hamer 2nd June 1997 6 months 6 months Richard Longdon 1st March 2017 2 years 3 months 1 month Ron Mackintosh 1st June 2004 1st June 2017 5 months 1 month John Worby 1st May 2014 1st May 2017 2 years 4 months 1 month Ken Archer 25th November 2014 25th November 2017 2 years 11 months 1 month Ishbel Macpherson 1st May 2017 2 years 5 months 1 month Gender Pay Gap Reporting During the first quarter of 2018 Fidessa will publish its 2017 gender pay gap data for its UK subsidiary, Fidessa plc.
That data will be prepared in accordance with the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017.
The Committee and the Board will review and consider the data at that time and will report more fully in the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report.
Annual General Meeting of 26th April 2017 directors remuneration report voting results Ordinary Resolution For Against Withheld Total Votes Cast To approve the Directors Remuneration 30,827,763 61,117 750,000 31,638,880 Report for the year ended 97.4% 0.2% 2.4% 31st December 2016 Directors remuneration for the year commencing 1st January 2018 Executive directors Salary The Committee will continue to monitor the remuneration of executive directors of other companies in the IT sector and other listed companies with similar market capitalisation with a view to ensuring that the executive directors remain sufficiently rewarded to promote the long-term success of Fidessa.
The Committee also takes into account sensitivities in relation to the salary increases across the wider workforce.
Salary increases may lead to an element of annual variable pay being deferred under DABP.
However, the precise level of increases has not yet been decided and therefore any increase will be set out in the 2018 Annual Report.
Benefits The benefits received by the directors will remain substantially unchanged from 2016, being life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
Fidessa group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Annual variable pay Variable pay will be paid to the executive directors in accordance with the directors remuneration policy and the operation method followed in 2017.
The threshold operating profit and the percentage payable on operating profit greater than the threshold will be set to provide a similar overall outcome for on target earnings and material adjustments to these parameters are unlikely and will be disclosed to shareholders in the 2018 Annual Report.
An interim payment will be made after the half year results are announced.
The performance measure for, and the operation of, the annual variable pay for 2018 is not being disclosed in this report as that information is deemed to be a forecast and therefore commercially sensitive.
That information will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report.
Long-term incentives It is proposed that the Committee may approve the granting of awards to the executive directors under the PSP in accordance with the Policy.
Following a consultation with major shareholders during 2017, the 2018 awards will be subject to two performance measures: two thirds of the award will continue to be subject to EPS growth targets and the remaining one third will be subject to TSR targets against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Vesting will be as follows: Compound annual growth in Adjusted EPS1 % of award subject to EPS vesting Less than 4% 0% 4% 25% Between 4% and 10% Between 25% and 100% Greater than 10% 100% TSR rank % of award subject to TSR vesting Below median 0% Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% Above upper quartile 100% 1 The Committee considers these targets to be stretching in light of current analysts forecasts.
Pension The executive directors have not participated in the pension scheme in the past.
Andy Skelton is intending to commence participation in the pension scheme during 2018 on the same terms as those available to UK employees.
Currently Fidessa matches the contributions of employees participating in the UK money purchase scheme up to a maximum of 3% of salary.
Other The directors will continue to be awarded matching shares as a result of their participation in the SIP.
In relation to the Chairman and non-executive directors, it is proposed that their fees will be reviewed to take into account fees paid by listed companies with a similar market capitalisation and also their time commitment and responsibilities.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Ken Archer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16th February 2018
