58 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors' Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This report is split into two sections: Annual Report on Remuneration this sets out in detail how the remuneration policy has been applied in 2017, the remuneration received by Directors for the year and how the policy will be applied in 2018.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM in May 2018.
Directors' Remuneration Policy this sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Chairman and non-executive directors.
The Directors' Remuneration Policy is subject to approval by shareholders every three years.
The policy was approved by shareholders at our 2016 AGM and therefore was not subject to a shareholder vote in 2017.
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE How the remuneration policy supports our business strategy Our remuneration policy is designed to support the Group's strategy as summarised below: Strategy To create value for shareholders through originating, investing in and managing infrastructure assets internationally Remuneration Policy Focus on performance-related Use of share-based incentives Performance targets which pay, with the emphasis on and share ownership guidelines support sustainable long-term long-term performance for executives value creation In addition to setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee also has oversight of remuneration for all members of the senior management team, ensuring a cohesive approach to reward is operated throughout the Group.
SUMMARY OF THE CURRENT REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Element Description Opportunity Base pay Salaries are set taking into account the experience of the Current salaries are 465,000 for the Chief Executive Director, his her role and responsibilities.
Officer and 346,300 for the Group Finance Director.
Benefits Private medical insurance, life insurance, permanent health Market competitive.
insurance and, for Patrick O'D Bourke, a car allowance.
Pension Cash allowance in lieu of pension.
Bonus Annual bonus is determined by reference to corporate and Up to 100% of salary 60% of salary at target.
Any bonus above target 60% of salary is deferred into shares vesting in equal tranches over one, two and three years subject to continued employment.
LTIP Shares vest after three years subject to continued employment Current award levels are 175% of salary per annum and the achievement of NAV per share and Total Shareholder for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary per Return TSR targets with 50% of the award on each measure.
annum for the Group Finance Director within a policy Executive Directors are required to retain the net of tax maximum of 200% of salary per annum.
number of any shares vesting under the LTIP for a further two years post-vesting.
The performance measures for the 2017 Bonus are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 62.
Variable Fixed John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 REMUNERATION RECEIVED BY THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2017 Long-Term 1 2 3 000 Salary Benefits Pension Bonus Incentives Total Olivier Brousse 434 2 56 342 774 1,608 Patrick O'D Bourke 336 12 43 251 514 1,156 1 Cash allowance in lieu of pension is paid net of employers national insurance.
2 Bonuses were based on an assessment of corporate and individual performance objectives see page 62 for further details.
3 This relates to the estimated value of the 2015 LTIP which will vest in April 2018, see page 63.
2017 has been a busy year for John Laing, as we continue to scale up the business and strengthen the pipeline of investment opportunities for future growth across our three regions.
New investment commitments of 383 million were signicantly ahead of the targets set at the start of the year and total realisations increased to 289 million compared to 147 million for 2016, providing additional funding for new investments and enabling us to declare a special dividend for 2017 of 4.88p.
The investment portfolio as a whole is performing well and we are pleased to report NAV as at 31 December 2017 of 1,124 million up 10.5% on prior year and value enhancements of 66 million.
The Executive Directors are eligible for an annual bonus of up to 100% of salary.
The majority of the bonus up to 80% of salary is based on a scorecard of corporate financial targets to provide a rounded assessment of the financial performance of the business.
Detail of the scorecard targets set and performance against them is disclosed in full on page 62.
Based on performance against the targets and the overall strong performance of the business over the year, a bonus of 60.8% of salary 76% of the maximum was awarded for the corporate element of the bonus.
The remainder of the bonus up to 20% of salary is based on specic individual targets for each Executive Director, the weighting of the bonus on personal objectives being reduced from 40% in 2016.
Details of the Committees assessment against the personal objectives are set out on page 62.
The Executive Directors performed strongly against their personal objectives set resulting in overall bonuses for 2017 of 78.8% of salary for the Chief Executive officer and 74.8% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
Part of the bonus is deferred into shares.
The first awards granted under the John Laing Group plc Long Term Incentive plan are due to vest in April 2018.
The awards were based on half on compound annual growth in NAV per share and half on relative TSR.
NAV per share was measured over three financial years to 31 December 2017.
NAV per share grew by 15.5% per annum over this period, resulting in 69% of shares for this part of the award becoming eligible to vest.
The performance period for the relative TSR condition runs until 15 April 2018.
Based on performance as at 15 February 2018, the estimated level of vesting for this part of the award is 81%.
The awards will vest once the final outcome of the TSR performance condition is known.
Any shares vesting to the Executive Directors are subject to a two year post-vesting retention period.
REMUNERATION FOR 2018 In terms of application of the policy for 2018: The Groups results demonstrate continued strong financial and operational performance and our employees, including the senior management team, have been critical to this success.
The Remuneration Committee is conscious of the need to ensure that the remuneration of our top talent reflects their experience, performance and contribution to our success and remains market competitive.
The Remuneration Committee recently undertook salary reviews for the Executive Directors and wider senior leadership team, including employees in John Laing Capital Management Limited.
The review took into consideration the performance of the Group as a whole, individual performance, roles and responsibilities, individual relativities and industry benchmark data.
Following this review, the Committee approved an average salary increase of 4% across the workforce.
The increase for the Group Finance Director, Patrick OD Bourke, was 3.0%, bringing his salary to 346,300 from 1 January 2018.
The Chief Executive Officer, Olivier Brousse, received a 7.1% increase, increasing his salary from 434,300 to 465,000 effective from 1 January 2018.
The increase for the Chief Executive Officer reflects his strong performance in the role since IPO and bringing his salary closer to, but still below, the market level following limited salary increases since his appointment in March 2014 on a salary of 420,000.
The Committee continues to monitor salary levels across the Group to ensure that they remain appropriate and reflect the competitive nature of the industry in which we operate.
The structure and operation of the bonus scheme remain unchanged.
The bonus maximum remains 100% of salary.
Bonuses will continue to be based on corporate and individual performance.
The measures used to assess corporate performance for 2018 will be: NAV Distributions excluding from non-portfolio assets Divestments New investments Value enhancements Profit before tax.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 60 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION FOR 2018 CONTINUED The detailed targets and how the Group has performed against them will be set out retrospectively in next year's Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual LTIP awards will be granted at 175% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director as in 2017.
The awards will continue to be based 50% on relative TSR and 50% on growth in NAV per share.
Details of the relative TSR targets to be applied to the 2018 awards, which are consistent with those applying to the 2017 awards, are shown on page 63.
The NAV per share targets for the 2018 awards will require 10% to 16% p. a. compound annual growth rate over three years for 25% to 100% vesting of this part of the award.
These targets are the same as for 2017.
The annual fee for the Chairman will increase to 200,000 when Will Samuel becomes Chairman immediately following the Companys AGM on 10 May 2018.
Base annual fees for other non-executive directors will increase by 5,000 to 50,000 with effect from 1 May 2018.
In addition, the fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee will increase by 5,000 to 15,000 to match the fee for chairing the Audit & Risk Committee.
SUMMARY The aim of this report is to communicate details of Executive Director compensation and how this is clearly linked to performance.
We are committed to maintaining an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and I welcome any comments you may have.
During the course of 2018, the Committee intends to undertake a review of the Remuneration Policy, ahead of the shareholder vote to renew the policy required at the 2019 AGM.
If any significant changes to the policy are proposed following this review, we will consult with the Company's major shareholders in advance.
I very much hope that you will support the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration at the forthcoming AGM.
We rmly believe that our remuneration policy is right for the Company and that it will continue to motivate and incentivise our senior team to deliver the Companys strategy.
Anne Wade CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 7 March 2018 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration Committee members Anne Wade Chairman Jeremy Beeton Toby Hiscock David Rough All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Further details on the members of the Committee can be found on pages 46 and 47 of this Annual Report.
Responsibilities The Committee recommends the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determines the levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other senior executives and prepares an Annual Report on Remuneration for approval by shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee's terms of reference can be viewed on our website at www.
Details of the number of meetings held during the year are shown in the Corporate Governance Report on page 51.
Advisors The Committee receives information and takes advice from inside and outside the Group.
Internal support is provided by the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and Chief Executive officer are invited to attend meetings where appropriate.
No individual is present when matters relating to his her own remuneration are discussed.
New Bridge Street NBS was appointed in early 2015 to act as the independent adviser to the Committee.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, which is a subsidiary of Aon plc.
Fees are normally charged on a time spent basis, with estimates provided in advance for particular projects.
The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee during the year were 53,842 plus VAT 2016 38,986 plus VAT.
The increase is largely due to an exercise on international benchmarking carried out during the year.
NBS also provided advice to the Company in relation to the implementation of the Companys share plans.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants' Code of Conduct and reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives from NBS is objective and independent.
Directors' single total figure of remuneration for 2017 audited The table below provides a breakdown of the various elements of Director pay for the year ended 31 December 2017 and for the prior year.
This comprises the total remuneration earned in respect of the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, and the prior period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.
This relates to private health insurance.
The figure for Patrick O'D Bourke also includes a car allowance of 10,200.
Paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension.
In accordance with the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP, any amount over 60% of salary awarded in bonus is deferred in shares.
Awards under the DSBP vest in equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment.
The 2015 LTIP award is due to vest in April 2018.
50% of the award is based on NAV per share performance over a three year period to 31 December 2017.
The remaining 50% is based on relative TSR performance which is measured to 15 April 2018, for which an estimated outcome has been used in calculating the above figures.
The estimated value of the shares is based on the share price for the last three months of 2017.
See page 63 for further details.
Appointed to the Board on 7 December 2017.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 62 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Details of variable pay earned in the year audited Annual Bonus The bonus payable for 2017 excluding JLCM employees was assessed by the Committee taking into account performance against the following scorecard of metrics: million Threshold Target Stretch Actual Narrative NAV 1,083 1,140 1,198 1,124 Between threshold and target Value enhancements 36 38 41 66 Above stretch Distributions excluding from non-portfolio assets 37 39 43 40 Between target and stretch Disposals 257 271 298 289 Between target and stretch New investments 214 225 247 383 Above stretch Profit before tax 142 150 165 126 Below threshold Based on the achievement of the above scorecard of metrics, the Committee determined that the overall bonus payable for corporate performance was 76% of the maximum, equivalent to 60.8% of salary for the Executive Directors.
In addition to the overall Company targets, the Executive Directors were given specific individual objectives which accounted for 20% of their maximum bonus entitlement.
The individual objectives for 2017 and a summary of the Committee's assessment of the Executive Directors' performance against these objectives are set out below: Chief Executive Officer, Olivier Brousse In addition to oversight of all Group objectives, the Chief Executive Officer was individually tasked with: Completing a comprehensive review of the senior management structure at John Laing to best align the Group for future growth opportunities.
The Chief Executive Officer recently initiated an internal reorganisation under which the Primary Investment and Asset Management teams in each of our three geographical regions will in future report to a single regional head, complemented by a Group Chief Risk Officer, each of whom reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
Making a significant step-change in the size and profile of the North American business.
We have seen a marked increase in the pipeline, in our shortlisted positions and an increase in committed investments.
Review and reform of the Investment Committee.
This has been done with success.
The Board is pleased with the progress to date, including the sizeable step-change in the Groups total investment commitments, and accordingly awarded the Chief Executive Officer 90% of the maximum potential for performance against his individual objectives.
Group Finance Director, Patrick O'D Bourke In addition to oversight of all Group objectives, the Group Finance Director was individually tasked with: Developing and agreeing with the Board a future funding strategy with options for financial flexibility to meet the increasing investment opportunities as well as dividend expectations.
This was a continued process begun in 2016 and supported the Groups increase in investments in 2017.
Establishing a new Divestment Committee with the goal of improving visibility of the Group disposal pipeline over the next three years and efficiency on disposal costs.
While we achieved a good outcome on realisations in 2017 this process remains a work in progress.
The Board has awarded the Group Finance Director 70% of the maximum potential for performance against his individual objectives.
Overall, bonuses for 2017 for the Executive Directors were as follows: % salary Olivier Brousse Patrick OD Bourke Corporate maximum 80% of salary 60.8% 60.8% Individual maximum 20% of salary 18% 14% Total maximum 100% of salary 78.8% 74.8% Total 000 342 251 Bonuses up to 60% of salary are paid in cash with any bonus above this level awarded in the form of deferred shares, vesting in equal tranches over one, two and three years, normally subject to continued employment.
Any deferred shares due will normally be awarded as soon as practicable following the results announcement in March.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Vesting of the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan award audited The first awards granted under the John Laing Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP are due to vest Performance Threshold target Stretch target Performance 1 Measure Weighting period 25% vesting 100% vesting outcome 3 Compound annual growth 50% 1 January 2015 to 12% p. a.
15.5% p. a. growth resulting in 68.75% 2 in NAV per Share 31 December 2017 of this element vesting.
TSR relative to the 50% 16 April 2015 to Median Upper quartile The performance period for the TSR constituents of the 15 April 2018 ranking ranking or condition has not yet ended, but as at FTSE 250 Index above 15 February 2018, John Laing was ranked between the median and upper quartile of the comparator group resulting in an estimated 81.43% of this vesting element.
1 For performance between threshold and stretch, awards vest on a straight line basis.
2 The base year for the measurement of the growth in value of NAV per share was the 2014 financial year, and at 31 December 2014 the NAV per share value was 210p which was adjusted to include the funds raised in the Company's IPO in February 2015.
3 NAV is based on the figures reported in the Companys annual financial statements but adjusted to include the value of any dividends paid to or approved by shareholders during the three year performance period.
NAV per share for 2017, the final year of the performance period, adjusted to include the value of dividends, was 323p.
The performance period for the relative TSR condition has not yet ended, but based on performance to-date, 81.43% of this element would vest.
Taking the NAV per share growth element of 68.75%, this would give rise to an overall expected level of vesting of 75.09%.
The final vesting position will be disclosed in next years report.
Number of Anticipated number Estimated value 1 Type of award shares granted of shares vesting of shares vesting Olivier Brousse LTIP nil cost option 342,820 257,423 774,482 Patrick O'D Bourke LTIP nil cost option 227,560 170,874 514,091 1 Value based on the average share price over the period 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017 283.9p, including the value of dividend equivalents 16.96p per share to be rolled-up and paid out based on the number of shares estimated to vest.
As a result of the rights issue announced on 8 March 2018, the Company will make appropriate adjustments to awards held under its share plan arrangements, to ensure award holders will not be disadvantaged compared to shareholders.
The awards were structured as nil cost options and, on vesting, will ordinarily be capable of exercise up to the day before the tenth anniversary of grant.
The awards are subject to a post-vesting holding period and the Executive Directors must retain the net number of shares vesting under the LTIP after tax for two years post vesting.
Details of share awards granted in the year audited The following LTIP awards were granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year: Type of Award Face Number Grant Performance Performance 1 award size value of shares date period targets Olivier Brousse LTIP nil 175% 757,044 262,680 cost option salary 1 January 2017 to 50% based on relative TSR and 19 April 2017 31 December 2019 50% based on NAV per share Patrick LTIP nil 150% 504,436 175,030 OD Bourke cost option salary 1 Calculated using the closing middle market share price on the day preceding the date of grant which was 288.2 pence.
The performance conditions attached to the awards are: 50% is based on TSR performance against a comparator group comprising the members of the FTSE 250 index.
25% of the shares in this tranche will vest for median performance with full vesting for upper quartile performance or above straight line vesting between these points.
50% is based on the compound annual growth in the Group's NAV per share.
NAV per share growth will be based on the NAV per share reported in the Group's annual financial statements but adjusted to include the value of any dividends paid to or approved by shareholders during the three year performance period.
The NAV per share figures may also be adjusted at the discretion of the Committee to reflect any regulatory or accounting changes or any changes to the Company's share capital.
25% of the shares in this tranche will vest for 10% per annum compound growth, with full vesting for 16% per annum compound growth or above straight line vesting between these points.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 64 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The awards are structured as nil cost options and will normally vest on the later of the third anniversary of grant and the determination of the performance conditions, and will then normally remain exercisable until the day before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant provided the individual remains an employee or officer of the Group.
The Executive Directors may not sell shares vesting under the LTIP other than to settle related tax liabilities within two years of vesting.
The following were granted to the Executive Directors under the DSBP during the financial year.
These related to the deferred element of the 2016 bonus.
Type of Award Face Number Grant 1 award size value of shares date Olivier Brousse DSBP Bonus 12,900 4,808 nil cost option earned over 17 March 2017 Patrick OD Bourke DSBP 60% 9,989 3,723 nil cost option of salary 1 Calculated using the closing middle market share price on the day preceding the date of grant which was 268.3p.
The awards will vest in three equal tranches on each of the first three anniversaries of the date of grant and will then remain exercisable until the day before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant provided the individual remains an employee or officer of the Group.
The first tranche of shares granted under the deferred element of the 2015 bonus vested during the year.
The value of the shares on vesting was 16,788 for Olivier Brousse, and 13,278 for Patrick O'D Bourke calculated using the closing middle market share price on the date of vesting, 15 March 2017, which was 260.2p.
Chairman and non-executive director fees The current fees for the Chairman and the non-executive directors are set out below: Fee Chairman 180,000 Non-executive directors: Base fee 45,000 Additional fees for: Chairing the Audit & Risk Committee 15,000 Chairing the Remuneration Committee 10,000 Senior Independent Director 10,000 In addition, the Chairman and the non-executive directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Will Samuel is entitled to an annual fee of 45,000 for his role as non-executive director and Chairman Designate, which will increase to 200,000 when he becomes Chairman immediately following the Companys AGM on 10 May 2018.
The base fee for non-executive directors will increase to 50,000 per annum as from 1 May 2018.
The additional fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee will increase to 15,000.
Directors' shareholdings audited The following table sets out a summary of the Directors' interests in shares including any interests held by connected persons.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Between 31 December 2017 and the date of this report there have been no changes in the Directors shareholdings.
The guideline shareholding for Executive Directors is 100% of salary.
At 31 December 2017, Olivier Brousse and Patrick O'D Bourke held shares worth 114% and 123% of salary respectively.
Payments to past Directors audited There were no payments to past Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office audited No payments have been made for loss of ofce in the year.
Relative importance of the expenditure on pay The table below shows the Group's expenditure on pay compared with distributions to shareholders.
million 2017 2016 Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees 33.6 34.6 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends 30.1 26.2 Distributions to shareholders by way of share buy-backs Nil Nil Percentage change in the remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer compared to the average for other employees The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and bonus earned between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017 for the Chief Executive Officer compared to the average for other UK-based employees.
This comparator group was used because the Committee believe it gives the best understanding of underlying increases, while avoiding distortions from currency fluctuation and different economic conditions in other countries.
Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 1.0% 6.4% 26.3% Average for other UK employees 4.4% 1.3% 25.0% Performance graph and total remuneration history for Chief Executive Officer The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index for the period from the Companys IPO in February 2015 to 31 December 2017.
This comparator has been chosen as it is a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent and it is also the one used in assessing relative TSR performance under the LTIP.
180 161.42 160 140 120 132.87 100 80 60 40 20 0 Feb-15 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 John Laing Group plc FTSE 250 Index The graph shows the value as at 31 December 2017 of 100 invested in John Laing Group plc on the date of Admission 17 February 2015 compared to 100 invested in the FTSE 250.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive Officer for 2015, 2016 and 2017 are shown in the table below.
The annual bonus and long-term incentive award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also disclosed.
Value rebased Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 66 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED 2015 2016 2017 Total remuneration '000 1,535 759 1,608 Annual bonus % of maximum 70% 63% 79% 1 LTIP % of maximum Nil Nil 75% 1 Estimated Voting outcome on Remuneration The following votes were received at the 2016 and 2017 AGMs: Date Approved Votes For Votes Against Votes Withheld Resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration 11 May 2017 292,599,856 36,853 1,947,354 99.99% 0.01% Resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 12 May 2016 258,873,852 11,182,710 5,337 95.86% 4.14% Percentage of votes cast.
Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 A summary of how the remuneration policy will be applied during the forthcoming year is set out below: Salaries for Executive Directors Olivier Brousse 465,000 Patrick O'D Bourke 346,300 Benefits and Pension No change 2018 Bonus The 2018 bonus will be based on 80% corporate and 20% individual objectives.
Bonuses will be awarded based on a mix of corporate and individual performance.
Corporate performance will be assessed taking into account NAV, distributions excluding from non-portfolio assets, disposals, new investments, value enhancements and profit before tax.
The performance targets for 2018 are deemed to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in next year's Annual Report on Remuneration.
2018 LTIP LTIP awards granted to the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director in 2018 will be over shares worth 175% and 150% of salary respectively the same as 2017.
Performance will be measured over three years subject to the following conditions with an equal weighting on each measure : Performance condition Threshold 25% vesting Maximum 100% vesting Compound annual growth in NAV per share 10% p. a.
16% p. a. TSR relative to the constituents Median performance Upper quartile of the FTSE 250 Index performance There will be straight-line vesting between these points.
Chairman and non-executive The fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors were reviewed during the year, the current fee director fees policy having been in place since IPO.
The fees to apply for 2018 onwards are as follows: 1 Chairman 200,000 Non-executive directors: 2 Base fee 50,000 Additional fees for: Chairing the Audit & Risk Committee 15,000 3 Chairing the Remuneration Committee 15,000 Senior Independent Director 10,000 1 To apply from 10 May 2018 increased from 180,000 2 To apply from 1 May 2018 increased from 45,000 3 To apply from 1 May 2018 increased from 10,000 By order of the Board Anne Wade CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 7 March 2018 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors.
The report was subject to a binding vote by shareholders at our AGM in 11 May 2016 and is intended to remain in place for three years.
Shown below is the Policy in full, as approved by shareholders, updated where appropriate to reference how the Policy will be applied in 2018.
Remuneration Policy Table The table below sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Link to performance Maximum opportunity Base To provide a Reviewed annually by the Committee with Base salary levels are While there is no maximum salary core reward effect from 1 January or, if appropriate, set at a level to reflect salary, increases will normally for the role at following a change in an individuals the experience, skills be in line with the typical level a sufficient position or responsibilities.
and responsibilities of of increase awarded to other level to the individual as well employees of the Group.
Benchmarked periodically against relevant recruit and as the scope and scale market comparators, including companies However, increases above this retain of their role.
of a similar size and complexity and other level may be offered in certain individuals of broadly comparable companies.
Increases to base salary circumstances such as where the necessary will reflect individual an Executive Director has been calibre to performance and promoted, has had a change execute the contribution as well as in responsibilities, to reflect Companys the pay and conditions increased experience in the business for other employees of role, or where there has been strategy.
a significant change in the size and or scope of the business.
For details of salary levels from 1 January 2018 see the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 66.
Benefits To operate a Provision of benefits such as private Not applicable The cost of the benefit provision competitive medical insurance, life insurance, varies from year-to-year and benefits permanent health insurance, company there is no prescribed maximum structure for sick pay and a car allowance.
The Committee monitors Executive annually the overall cost of the Executive Directors are also eligible to Directors that benefits provided to ensure that participate in any all-employee share aids in their it remains appropriate.
plans operated by the Company, in line recruitment with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing, and retention.
on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Additional benefits may be provided from time to time if the Committee decides payment of such benefits is appropriate, for example, if this is in line with emerging market practice or to facilitate the relocation of an Executive Director.
Each Executive Director is entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties including any tax payable thereon.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 68 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Link to performance Maximum opportunity Pension To offer The Company may provide Not applicable 15% of salary market a cash allowance in lieu of competitive a contribution to a pension levels of scheme, contribute an amount pension and to a money purchase pension to recognise scheme or provide for a long-term combination of the two commitment depending on the circumstances to the Group.
Annual To recognise The Executive Directors The size of the bonus is assessed by the 100% of salary 60% of bonus and reward participate in the same overall Committee taking into account performance salary for target the delivery bonus structure as other Group against a scorecard of corporate metrics.
of short-term employees except for those choice of metrics is reviewed by the Committee No more than 25% of strategic and employees within John Laing at the start of each financial year, with a target salary will be payable financial Capital Management JLCM.
range set for each measure.
Details of the for threshold objectives The size of the overall Group metrics used to determine the 2017 bonus are performance.
which bonus is determined based on set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration contribute performance against a range of on page 62 and the metrics to be used for the towards metrics linked to the Groups 2018 bonus are set out in the Annual Report on long-term strategy.
The overall bonus is Remuneration on page 66. sustainable then allocated partly based on There is no pre-determined weighting between growth.
Company performance with the metrics.
The Committee uses the scorecard as a remainder based on individual guide to help it consider the overall performance performance.
of the business and the appropriate size of the To the extent any bonus exceeds overall bonus.
The Committee will, in its the target amount 60% of absolute discretion, take into account all salary, the full amount of any relevant circumstances when determining the excess will be deferred in shares size of the overall Group bonus, recognising under the Deferred Share Bonus that, given the long-term nature of the business, Plan DSBP.
Awards under the timescales on particular projects may be outside DSBP vest in equal tranches management's control.
The Committee also has on the first, second and third the discretion to reduce the size of the overall anniversary of grant, normally Group bonus if it feels that the level of bonus is subject to continued not supported by the underlying financial and employment.
Dividends that operational performance of the business.
accrue on the DSBP shares Once performance against the corporate metrics during the vesting period may has been determined, the calculation of an be paid in cash and or shares individuals allocation will be subject to an at the time of vesting.
assessment by the Committee of both Group Clawback and, in the case of performance and individual performance.
deferred share awards, malus The amount allocated based on individual provisions will apply.
performance cannot exceed 40% of salary.
For 2018, this will be 20% of salary.
The Committee may reduce a participant's bonus including to zero to reflect adverse events, e. g. health and safety breaches or poor individual performance.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Link to performance Maximum opportunity Long To incentivise At the discretion of the Committee, Awards are subject to the achievement of Up to 200% of salary.
Term and reward Executive Directors will receive performance targets linked to the long-term It is intended that Incentive the creation annual awards of shares in the success of the Company.
awards for 2018 will Plan of long-term form of nil or nominal cost These are currently based 50% on growth in NAV be limited to 175% and LTIP shareholder options or conditional awards per share and 50% on TSR.
However, different 150% of salary for the value.
which will usually vest on the third performance metrics weightings may be set for Chief Executive Officer anniversary of grant or, if later, future awards to ensure that the LTIP remains and Group Finance when the Committee determines aligned to the Companys strategy.
that the performance conditions A sliding scale of targets is applied for each have been satisfied.
performance metric, with no more than 25% of The awards are subject to the that part of the award vesting for achievement achievement of performance and of the threshold target.
Executive Directors are required to retain the net of tax number of any shares vesting under an LTIP award for a further two years postvesting.
Dividends that accrue on the shares during the vesting period may be paid in cash and or shares at the time of vesting.
Clawback and malus provisions apply.
Shareholding guidelines The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 100% of their salary and are expected to retain all shares vesting under the DSBP and LTIP net of tax until such time as the guideline shareholding has been achieved.
Annual bonus performance metrics The size of the overall Group bonus is assessed by the Committee taking into account performance against a scorecard of metrics which reect the growth of the business.
The choice of metrics may change for future award cycles, but was based on the following for 2017: Metric Link to strategy NAV This measures growth in the value of the Group's net assets.
Distributions This reflects the Group's ability to realise cash distributions from its investments.
Disposals Disposals of existing investments provide additional funding for new investments.
Special dividends payable to shareholders are based on disposal proceeds.
New investments New investments are designed to contribute to future NAV growth.
Value enhancements Value enhancements increase the investment portfolio valuation and therefore contribute to future NAV growth.
Profit before tax This is linked to growth in NAV in any given year and in addition provides an appropriate focus on cost control.
LTIP metrics Awards under the LTIP vest subject to delivering against metrics which are aligned to long-term shareholder value creation.
The choice of metric may change for future award cycles, but is currently based on the following: Metric Link to strategy TSR This measures the total return to shareholders provided through share price appreciation and dividends.
TSR is measured relative to performance against a comparative group comprising the members of the FTSE 250 index.
TSR provides a clear alignment between the value created for shareholders and the reward earned by executives.
NAV per share This measures the overall value of the Group's net assets adjusted for dividends paid or approved divided by the number of shares in issue and provides an assessment of the growth of the business over time.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 70 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Incentive plan operation The Committee operates the Companys incentive plans according to their respective rules and consistent with normal market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant, including exibility in a number of regards.
This includes dealing with leavers and making adjustments to awards following acquisitions, disposals, changes in share capital and other merger and acquisition activity.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different metrics for the annual bonus plan and outstanding LTIP awards if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Clawback and malus The Company has the right to reduce the number of shares over which an award was granted under the DSBP or LTIP where it is discovered that the award was granted over too many shares as a result of a material misstatement in the Companys accounts, when there has been an error or reliance on misleading information when assessing the size of the award that was granted, and or it is discovered that the participant could reasonably have been dismissed as a result of his her misconduct.
The Company may also clawback cash bonus awards or previously vested DSBP and LTIP awards in accordance with the principles set out above to ensure that the full value of any overpayment is recouped.
In these circumstances the Committee may apply clawback within three years of the payment of the cash bonus, date of grant of a DSBP award or the vesting of an LTIP award.
Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee values the views of the Companys shareholders and guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM, as well as any additional feedback received during the year, is considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration review.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders in advance of making any significant changes to remuneration arrangements.
Link to the remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is similar to the policy for employees across the Group, although the Committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the Directors remuneration policy.
A consistent approach to remuneration is applied across the Group with the same overarching principle that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain high calibre talent and that reward should support the delivery of the business strategy.
The same approach to salary reviews is applied to all employees and the Executive Directors participate in the same overall bonus structure as other Group employees except those employees within JLCM.
However only the most senior employees are subject to deferral arrangements and some other employees may have a higher weighting on individual performance.
The Executive Directors also participate in the same LTIP as other senior executives.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors compared to other senior employees, which the Committee believes are necessary to reect the different levels of responsibility.
The two main differences are the increased emphasis on performance-related pay for Executive Directors through a higher variable pay opportunity and a greater focus on long-term alignment through bonus deferral, additional holding periods for LTIP awards and minimum shareholding guidelines.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Remuneration reward scenarios The total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors that could result from the remuneration policy in 2018 is shown below: 100% 537 Minimum 1,223 Target 44% 23% 33% Maximum 30% 26% 44% 1,816 Minimum 100% 410 Target 47% 24% 29% 878 Maximum 32% 27% 41% 1,276 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 2,000 000 Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP Notes: 1.
Fixed pay consists of salary, benefits and pension.
Salary is the amount to be paid in 2018 and benefits are based on the value shown in the single total figure of remuneration for 2017 on page 59.
Pension is shown as 15% of salary.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of salary with 60% of salary earned at target performance.
Any bonus earned for above target performance is deferred in shares, which vest subject to continued employment over one, two and three years.
The maximum LTIP award for 2018 is 175% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
An award of 50% of the maximum is assumed for target performance.
LTIP awards are subject to a three year performance period and the net of tax number of any shares received must be held for a further two years post vesting.
No assumptions are made as to future share price movements which will impact on the actual values to be received under the DSBP and LTIP.
Executive Director Recruitment and Promotions Remuneration arrangements for a new appointment will be set in accordance with the policy for the existing Executive Directors, except as noted below: If it is considered appropriate to set the salary for a new Executive Director at a level which is below market, his or her salary may be increased in future periods to achieve the desired market positioning by way of a series of phased above inflation increases, subject to his or her continued development in the role.
Any bonus payment for the year of joining will normally be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the period worked and the Committee may set different performance measures and targets, depending on the timing and nature of the appointment.
In the case of an Executive Director being recruited overseas, being recruited by the Company to relocate overseas or an existing Executive Director being asked to relocate overseas, expatriate benefits may be provided on an ongoing basis.
The Committee may also approve the payment of one-off relocation-related expenses and legal fees.
The Committee may offer cash and or share-based elements to compensate an individual for remuneration forfeited on leaving a former employer, if it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore its shareholders.
Such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished and would mirror as far as possible the delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirement attached to that remuneration.
Where possible any such payments would be facilitated through the Companys existing share plans, but, if not, the awards may be granted outside these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according to its original terms or adjusted as considered appropriate to reflect the new role.
Patrick OD Bourke Olivier Brousse Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 72 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Executive Directors' service agreements and payments for loss of office The Executive Directors entered into new service agreements with the Company on 16 January 2015.
There is no xed term and the contracts continue until terminated by either party giving 12 months notice.
The Company is also entitled to terminate the Executive Directors employment by payment of a cash sum in lieu of notice equal to salary and the cost to the Company of providing contractual benets including pension but excluding bonus during what would otherwise have been the notice period.
A payment in lieu of notice can, at the Companys discretion, be paid as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over the notice period.
There is a mechanism in the agreement to reduce the instalments where the Executive Director commences alternative employment during the notice period.
Outplacement services and reimbursement of legal costs may also be provided.
The Company may also terminate the Executive Directors' employment with immediate effect and with no liability to make any further payments in certain prescribed circumstances e. g. in the case of a serious or repeated breach of the Executive Directors' obligations.
The Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interest of the Company.
The table below sets out the general position in respect of incentive arrangements for departing Executive Directors.
In accordance with the terms of the relevant incentive plan rules, and based on the circumstances of any departure, the Committee has discretion to determine how an Executive Director should be categorised for each element and determine the relevant vesting levels: Bad Leaver Good Leaver Annual Bonus No entitlement.
Bonus may be payable subject to performance.
Awards normally pro-rated based on the period worked during the financial year.
DSBP Unvested awards will lapse.
Unvested awards will vest on the date of cessation with no pro-rata reduction.
LTIP Unvested awards will lapse.
Awards will vest on the normal vesting date, subject to performance and a time pro-rata reduction based on the number of complete months served from the date of grant to cessation of employment.
The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, determine that awards can vest, subject to performance, earlier than the normal vesting date and, if a participant dies, the award will ordinarily vest, subject to performance, on the date of death unless the Committee decides it should vest on the normal vesting date.
In any of the circumstances described above, the Committee may determine that the pro-rata reduction should not apply at all or should apply to a lesser extent if it considers that exceptional circumstances justify such treatment.
1 e. g. termination for cause etc.
2 e. g. death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the participants employer, the sale of the participants employer or the business in which he or she is employed out of the Group or any other reason at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Other In the event of a change of control or voluntary winding-up, unvested LTIP awards will vest at the time of the relevant event subject to performance and a time-based pro-rata reduction although the Committee may determine that the pro-rata reduction should not apply at all or should apply to a lesser extent if it considers that exceptional circumstances justify such a treatment.
Unvested DSBP awards will vest early and in full.
The Committee may require LTIP and DSBP awards to be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in a new holding company if the change of control is part of an internal reorganisation.
In the event that a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the price of a share to a material extent, the Committee may decide that unvested LTIP and DSBP awards will vest on the same basis as described above.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED External Board appointments The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors in other companies and that these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
It is the Companys policy that Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Olivier Brousse is a non-executive director of 1001 Fontaines and of Brive Rugby Club.
He does not receive any fees for these appointments.
Patrick O'D Bourke is a non-executive director of Afnity Water Limited and received fees of 47,587.50 in 2017 47,000 in 2016.
Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors Operation Fee policy The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The other non-executive directors receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary fees payable for additional Board responsibilities e. g. for Chairmanship of the Audit & Risk or Remuneration Committee or the role of Senior Independent Director.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
The maximum aggregate fee is set at 750,000 in the Company's Articles of Association.
Current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 64.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity and other broadly comparable companies.
Expenses The Chairman and the non-executive directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses and any tax payable thereon.
Letters of The letter of appointment for the Chairman states that his appointment is expected to last for at least three years but appointment will be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The appointment is terminable by either party giving to the other six and policy on months written notice or at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company without prejudice termination to the Chairmans right to receive six months payment in lieu of notice unless the removal is as a result of a serious default on his part.
The appointments of the other non-executive directors are for initial terms of three years.
The non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by the Companys shareholders.
Their appointments may be terminated at any time upon written notice or in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company or upon their resignation.
The non-executive directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on termination of their appointment.
Director Date of letter of appointment Unexpired term at 31 December 2017 Dr Phil Nolan 16 January 2015 6 weeks Jeremy Beeton 18 December 2014 6 weeks Toby Hiscock 16 January 2015 6 weeks David Rough 17 December 2014 6 weeks Will Samuel 7 December 2017 Two years and 11 months Anne Wade 17 December 2014 6 weeks The agreements were conditional on and did not become effective until the Company's admission to the Official List on 17 February 2015.
Amendments to the letters of appointment were signed in January 2018 extending the terms by a further three years to 16 February 2021.
Recruitment For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance policy with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
