REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Making considered and responsible decisions for the business Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Vecturas Remuneration Committee report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Remuneration Committee is grateful for the level of shareholder support for the new remuneration policy, which was put to a The Remuneration Committee binding vote at the last AGM and received 96.56% support.
is grateful for the level of 2017 represents our first full year since the closing of the all-share shareholder support for the merger with Skyepharma and is the first year of operation of the policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
new Remuneration Policy During the year, Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards of 185% which was put to a binding of base salary were granted to the Executive Directors, with vesting vote at the last AGM and subject to achievement oftwo performance measures, each of which is measured over a three-year period and subject to a two-year received 96.56% support.
Half of the award is subject to relative TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index excluding Susan Foden financial services and real estate sector companies.
The remainder is subject to stretching growth in cumulative adjusted EBITDA target.
Given the lack of clarity concerning the timing of regulatory approval of VR315, the Committee postponed the setting of the EBITDA targets and set a deadline in this regard of the final quarter 2017.
Accordingly the targets were agreed and set in December 2017.
Inorder to ensure that there was no benefit to participants based on any knowledge of the performance of the business in 2017, up to the point at which the targets were agreed, the targets were set based on the April 2017 management accounts and reviewed by the Board, updated only in respect of the Boards expectations for the approval of VR315.
The market was further updated of the regulatory status of VR315 at the start of 2018 and in line with our commitment to publish targets once this had occurred, we now disclose the relevant details in this report, which can be found on page 99.
As announced at last years AGM, Trevor Phillips stood down from the Board in May.
In accordance with the regulations, his termination package is shown on page 101.
These arrangements are in line with the remuneration policy.
GOVERNANCE Outturns for the period under review Remuneration for 2018 and beyond As reported in the Financial review set out on pages 56 to 63, the The salaries of the Executive Directors were reviewed early in Group has performed strongly in delivering on the synergies resulting December 2017 with effect from 1 January 2018.
The salaries from the merger and, given the delay in obtaining approval for ofJames Ward-Lilley and Andrew Derodra were increased inline VR315, has undertaken a number of initiatives to manage the with the general workforce increase in the UK of2.7%to 515,811 business more efficiently.
This has resulted in strong underlying and 357,211 respectively.
EBITDA figures for the business excluding VR315.
We have also AGM delivered significant milestone achievements, including Fox capacity Our Annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory development and VR475 and VR647 clinical trials progress.
vote at our forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I very much hope Against this backdrop the Committee considers that the remuneration that you will join me in supporting the resolution at the AGM.
paid to the Executive Directors, who have worked with determination Yours sincerely and commitment in the face of the challenges that the Group has had to address, fairly reflects their performance during the year.
The annual bonus payments to Executive Directors for the financial Dr Susan Foden period to 31 December 2017, of between 74% and 81% of base Chair of the Remuneration Committee salary, recognise a year of significant performance against 20 March 2018 achallenging backdrop.
A detailed breakdown of the targets set and the payments awarded under the annual bonus scheme and the LTIP are set out on pages 98 and 99.
LTIP awards granted in 2014 were eligible to vest during the year.
Half of the award was subject to relative TSR performance measured against the FTSE SmallCap Index and half was subject torelative TSR performance against selected constituents of the Euro Stoxx Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology Index over the three years to 30 June 2017.
TSR growth over the period did not achieve the median for either element and therefore none of the award vested.
The performance period of the first tranche of the 2015 LTIP award ended on 31 December 2017.
This tranche, which represents 40% of the award, was subject to three-year relative TSRperformance against FTSE 250 companies excluding financial services and real estate and selected European pharmaceutical peers.
TSR growth over the period did not achieve the median for either element and therefore none of this tranche will vest on the vesting date in September 2018.
The second and third tranches aresubject to a five-year performance period that will end on 31December 2019.
Vecturas TSR is currently below median against both comparator groups.
Further details of LTIP vesting against targets are set out on pages 98 and 99 of our report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 85
