REMUNERATION REPORT The following section sets out the remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders in a binding vote at the 2017 AGM held on 25May 2017.
Thetexthas been updated to reflect the passage of time and the fact that the policy has now been approved by shareholders.
This policy report can also be found in full on the Company website www.
com : it has been prepared in accordance with theprovisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Directors remuneration policy Vecturas remuneration policy is driven by the Companys strategy and business model and has been designed to reflect the Committees remuneration philosophy, as summarised below.
Philosophy Support value creation for shareholders over the longer term and create alignment with shareholders Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Share ownership guidelines Element Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus LTIP andholding periods How it is Broadly mid-market.
Set no higher than The most significant Significant personal influencedby the mid-market and is the least element of the package.
holdings must be acquired remuneration significant variable element.
and maintained and vested Has stretching targets that philosophy shares must be retained for Has stretching corporate and are clearly aligned with a period.
personal targets that support shareholder value.
Vecturas annual goals and its Performance measured over overall strategy.
three years and subsequent Deferral of a proportion in holding requirements for a shares increases alignment further two years align with with shareholders.
the long-term interests of the Company.
Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding its policy for Directors, the Committee has regard to the policy for remuneration of employees across the Group.
It does so in a number of respects: Employees are rewarded with a remuneration package that includes certain key benefits such as life assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, access to the pension scheme and participation in Vecturas all-employee share schemes and many employees are eligible to receive a bonus.
The bonus scheme for Directors and employees is designed to reward corporate andpersonal performance, and all individuals work towards challenging personal goals related to their roles.
When determining theannual salary increases and remuneration packages forthe Executive Directors, the Committee considers the general base salaryincrease for the broader employee population.
The remuneration of Senior Executives below Board level is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The remuneration packages ofthese Executives are broadly consistent with the policy outlined above, with the overall impact of the role and the individual being considered as well as relevant market comparative data, save that lower bonus percentages and lower long-term incentive opportunities areapplicable.
The following table and accompanying notes set out the main principles of reward for the Executive Directors of the Group asset out inthe current remuneration policy.
86 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Base salary increases are No formal metrics, although increases To recruit and retain Executives The Committee aims to set base awarded at the discretion willtake account of Group performance.
of the highest calibre who are salary at levels that are broadly of the Committee: however, capable of delivering the Groups aligned with the mid-points for salary increases will strategic objectives, reflecting the equivalent roles in comparable normally be considered individuals experience and role companies in the UK, adjusted to inrelation to the average within the Group.
reflect company size and complexity.
pay rises awarded to the Base salary is designed to provide Salaries are normally reviewed wider workforce.
an appropriate level of fixed income annually and changes are Where a higher level of to avoid an over-reliance on generally effective from 1 January.
increase is appropriate variable pay elements that could The annual salary review given the performance encourage excessive risk taking.
of Executive Directors takes and contribution of the a number of factors into incumbent, or where consideration, including: there has been a change in responsibilities, the business performance: Committee retains the salary increases awarded to the discretion to award overall employee population: moresignificant base salary increases.
skills and experience of the individual over time: scope of the individuals responsibilities: changes in the size and complexity of the Group: market competitiveness: and the underlying rate of inflation.
Benefits Benefits in kind offered to The Company aims to offer The value of each benefit Not performance related.
Executive Directors are provided benefits that are in line with is not predetermined and on a market-competitive basis, market practice.
is based upon the cost to to assist with the retention and the Group.
The main benefits currently provided recruitment of staff.
are life assurance, permanent health insurance and private medical and dental insurance.
Under certain circumstances the Group will offer relocation allowances to employees.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Executive Directors are eligible forother benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Pensions The Group aims to provide The Group operates a money Up to 20% of basic salary Not performance related.
market-competitive purchase scheme and all employees, contribution to the Group retirement benefits, to reward including Executive Directors, Personal Pension Plan or .
For Executives who are affected bythe HMRC lifetime or annual allowances, the Company may provide cash supplements in respect of benefits above the allowance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration policy continued Executive Directors continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual performance bonus awards made from 2017 An annual bonus rewards the Objectives are agreed with the Bonuses are limited to Corporate goals typically include revenue achievement of stretching Committee, and the Board as a amaximum of 135% of generation, development of pipeline progress, objectives that support the whole, at the start of each base salary for the CEO partnering successes and control of cash Groups corporate goals and financial year.
and 125% of base salary expenditure, although the Committee has the delivery of the business strategy forthe CFO.
discretion to set other targets.
Different performance measures together with goals in relation to and weightings may be used Goals set are specific, measurable and linked personal performance.
each year, as agreed with the tothe Groups longer-term strategy.
Delivery of a proportion in Committee, to take into account Up to 20% of the maximum is payable at shares provides alignment with changes in the business strategy.
threshold performance against each measure.
shareholders and facilitates the Bonuses are paid at the discretion operation of clawback.
The Committee takes into account overall corporate performance and individual performance when determining the final bonus amount to be awarded.
Bonuses are typically paid in March.
Bonuses up to 100% of base salary are payable in cash, with any bonus in excess of 100% of base salary normally compulsorily deferred into shares for two years.
Participants may also be entitled to receive dividend equivalents on vested shares.
Under the rules of the scheme, the Committee can claw back up to 100% of the bonus awarded in the event of material misstatement of the Companys financial results, an error in assessing theperformance conditions to which an award is subject or forany other matter which it deems relevant.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made from 2017 The Remuneration Committee Discretionary annual award of Annual awards of up Awards normally based on key measures linked believes that a key component of nil or nominal cost options that to 185% of salary may to achievement of Vecturas strategy such as the overall remuneration package vest according to performance begranted.
relative total shareholder return TSR and or is the provision of equity awards conditions normally measured financial metrics measured over three years.
to Senior Executives through over three financial years.
The Committee retains the discretion to vary the LTIP, which is designed to Participants may also be entitled the chosen relative TSR peer group or the incentivise growth in the longer to receive dividend equivalents on weighting between the metrics and or term and align them with vested shares.
introduce new metrics aligned to the Groups shareholders interests.
strategy for awards in future years, providing Awards granted from 2017 they are not materially less challenging in onwards are subject to an thecircumstances.
The Committee would additional two-year post-vesting normally consult with its major shareholders holding requirement on the net before making significant changes to the oftax value of shares vesting.
Awards will be subject to 15% of the maximum award vests at the clawback where there has been threshold median performance level, rising amisstatement of the Companys to 100% vesting at maximum upper quartile.
financial results, an error in assessing the performance Awards are also subject to an underpin based conditions to which an award on the Committees assessment of the Groups issubject or for any other underlying performance against a range of matterwhich the Committee factors, including the Companys underlying deems relevant.
financial performance, absolute shareholder returns and progress against milestones over Awards are subject to the the performance period.
Any exercise of discretions contained in the discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders.
The performance conditions for previous long-term incentive awards are described inthe Annual report on remuneration.
88 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Executive Directors continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics All-employee share schemes All employees, including Executive Both of the schemes offered are Participation limits are Not performance related and no performance Directors, are encouraged to HMRC-approved schemes and set by the relevant tax conditions apply.
become shareholders of Vectura operate on standard terms.
authorities from time Group plc through participation in to time.
The Group currently offers UK employees the opportunity to participate in the Vectura Sharesave SAYE scheme and the Vectura Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Where possible, similar plans will operate for overseas employees.
Share ownership guidelines Share ownership guidelines In accordance with best practice, Executive Directors are Not performance related.
for Executive Directors and Executive Directors are required required to build and senior employees are designed to retain at least half of any LTIP retain a holding of to strengthen the alignment awards vesting as shares after Vectura Group plc shares between the interests of senior paying any tax due until they equivalent to at least 200% management with those of have reached the required level of their base salary.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fees Set at a level that is sufficient The Chairman and the When reviewing fee levels, Not performance related.
to attract and retain highNon-Executive Directors receive account is taken of market calibre Non-Executives who fees paid in cash, with additional movements in the fees of have a broad range of skills fees received for chairing Non-Executive Directors, and experience to oversee Committees of the Board, for Board Committee the implementation of the fulfilling the role of Senior responsibilities and Companys strategy.
Independent Director or for ongoing time commitments.
Additional fees may also be paid in the event that a Directors normal annual time commitment is significantly exceeded in any year.
Fees are normally paid monthly and reviewed annually.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performancerelated incentive schemes, nor dothey receive any benefits, other than limited travel and hospitality-related benefits, in connection with their roles.
Notes to the policy table overall strategy and they are the key metrics used by the Executive For the avoidance of doubt, any commitments entered into by the Directors to oversee the operations of the business.
The Committee Company prior to the approval and implementation of the policy considers that the performance targets for the LTIP and the bonus outlined above may be honoured, even if they are not consistent represent an appropriate balance between the long-term and with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled.
short-term performance of the Group, as well as an appropriate balance between external and internal assessments of performance.
In operating its policy, the Committee may exercise discretion set out below and in accordance with the relevant sections of the The targets for the bonus scheme for the forthcoming year will various plan rules: beset out in general terms, subject to limitations with regards to commercial sensitivity.
The full details of the targets will be disclosed Performance conditions when they are in the public domain, usually following the end of The Committee selected the performance conditions outlined in the the relevant financial year, in the Directors remuneration report.
remuneration policy because they are aligned with the Groups Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 89 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or LTIP Directors remuneration policy continued performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer Notes to the policy table continued appropriate e. g. material acquisition or divestment, the Committee Performance conditions continued will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and or Relative TSR has been chosen as a performance metric for 50% of targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions the 2017 and 2018 LTIP awards as it is aligned with our shareholders are not materially less challenging than the original conditions.
expectations and it reflects the returns that we generate for our shareholders relative to the returns of the general market.
The Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors FTSE250 Index excluding financial services and real estate companies The charts below show hypothetical values of the 2018 remuneration has been chosen as it is a published index, is transparent for package for each Executive Director under three assumed performance shareholders, and provides a robust comparator group of similarly scenarios and these scenarios are based upon the remuneration sized companies.
The information presented below uses the level of salary, benefits and pension entitlements for each of the The Committee believes that the introduction of a financial metric Directors as at 1 January 2018. for the remaining 50% of the LTIP awards reflects our growth ambitions and the increasing maturity of our business.
Over the life of the policy, Base salaries for 2018: CEO 515,811 and CFO 357,211. the choice of financial metric and basis of measurement maybe Benefits of 24,000 and 9,000 respectively, and a pension varied to reflect the Companys development and strategic priorities.
allowance of 20% of salary have beenassumed.
For awards granted in 2017 and 2018, cumulative adjusted EBITDA Below target remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that has been selected as the financial metric: however, the Committee there is no annual bonus payment and no awards under the LTIP vest.
intends to keep the choice of metric under review for future awards.
On-target performance remuneration receivable this scenario The proposed performance conditions for the LTIP awards to be assumes that the Directors receive a bonus payout of 67.5% CEO granted in 2018 are outlined on page 104 of the Directors annual or 62.5% CFO of salary and that LTIP awards worth 27.75% of remuneration report.
salary at grant would ultimately vest.
Committee discretion Stretch remuneration receivable this scenario assumes that The Committee operates under the powers it has been delegated theDirectors receive a maximum bonus payout of 135% 125% by the Board.
In addition, it complies with rules that have either CEO CFO of their salary and that a maximum LTIP award of been approved by shareholders Long-Term Incentive Plan and 185%of salary would ultimately vest.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan or by the Board annual performance bonus scheme.
These rules provide the Committee with certain The actual amounts earned by Executive Directors under these discretions which serve to ensure that the implementation of the three scenarios will depend on share price performance over the remuneration policy is fair, both to the individual Directors and vesting period.
For the purpose of these illustrations, any share tothe shareholders.
The Committee also has discretion to set price appreciation has been ignored.
For simplicity, the value of components of remuneration within a range, from time to time.
participating in the Companys all-employee share schemes has The extent of such discretions is set out in the relevant rules and also been ignored.
the maximum opportunity or the performance metrics sections of the policy table above.
To ensure the efficient administration of the James Ward-Lilley variable incentive plans outlined above, the Committee will apply Minimum 100% 642,973 certain operational discretions.
These include the following: On-target 57% 31% 13% 1,134,283 selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: determining the timing of grants of awards and or payments: Maximum 28% 30% 42% 2,293,568 determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : Andrew Derodra reviewing performance against LTI performance metric: Minimum 100% 437,653 determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment ofperformance: 13% On-target 58% 29% 760,036 making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances, for instance for changes in capital structure: Maximum 28% 29% 43% 1,545,007 determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes andapplying the appropriate treatment: and Fixed pay Bonus LTIP undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and other incentive schemes, where applicable, from year to year.
90 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Other remuneration policies In circumstances in which a leaving Director may be entitled to Termination and loss of office payments pursue a legal claim, the Company may negotiate settlement terms The Groups policy on remuneration for Executive Directors who if it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and, leave the Group is consistent with general market practice and with the approval of the Committee on the remuneration elements isset out below.
The Committee will exercise its discretion when therein, enter into a settlement agreement.
determining amounts that should be paid to leavers, taking into Executive Directors service contracts account the facts and circumstances of each case.
When calculating It is the Groups policy that Executive Directors should have contracts termination payments, the Committee will take into account a with an indefinite term and which provide for a maximum period of variety of factors, including individual and Company performance, twelve-months notice.
The Executive Directors may accept outside the length of service of the Executive Director in question and, appointments, with prior Board approval, provided that these where appropriate, the obligation for the Executive Director to opportunities do not negatively impact on their ability to fulfil their mitigate loss.
Whether any related fees are retained by the In the case of a good leaver, the following policy will normally apply: individual or are remitted to the Group will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Neither of the Executive Directors currently notice period of twelve-months and pension and contractual holdany outside directorships.
benefits, or payment in lieu of notice: Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement statutory redundancy payments will be made, as appropriate: All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement which are terminable on not less than three-months notice by either party Executives have no entitlement to a bonus payment in the event and not less than six-months notice in the case of the Chairman.
that they cease to be employed by the Group: however, they The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the may be considered for a pro-rated cash award by the Committee Board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based in good leaver circumstances: on a review of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar the rules of the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP contain companies.
In accordance with the Code, as applicable to a FTSE 250 provisions setting out the treatment of awards where a participant company, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election ceases to be employed by the Vectura Group.
Other than in good at each AGM.
leaver circumstances, awards will normally lapse.
In the event The dates of appointment of each of the Directors serving at ofa participants death, retirement, ill health, injury, disability 31December 2017 are summarised in the table below.
orredundancy, the sale of hisemploying company or business Date of contract or out of the Vectura Group orfor any other reason, at the discretion date of appointment of the Remuneration Committee, awards will not be forfeited Executive Directors butwill instead normally vest on the original vesting date.
J Ward-Lilley 24 September 2015 Vesting in these circumstances will be subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions measured at that time A Derodra 10 June 2016 and time pro-rating in the case of LTIP awards.
DSBP awards will Non-Executive Directors normally vest in full at the original vesting date.
In exceptional S E Foden 18 January 2007 circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may allow the awards to vest on cessation of the participants employment, subject to N W Warner 1 February 2011 the satisfaction of the performance conditions measured at that B F J Angelici 1 December 2013 time and time pro-rating in the case of LTIP awards.
In either case, P-O Andersson 1 April 2015 the Remuneration Committee can decide to disapply time pro-rating, F Condella 10 June 2016 if it thinks itisappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances: T Werner 10 June 2016 any other share-based entitlements granted to an Executive J Thompson 1 December 2017 Director under the Companys share and share option plans willbe determined based upon the relevant plan rules: and An external independent Board evaluation was performed in January February 2017 and the Board confirmed that all Non-Executive Directors the Committee may also provide for the leaver to be reimbursed were regarded as independent, including Susan Foden, who has service for a reasonable level of legal fees in connection with a greater than nine years, and Frank Condella, who was previously settlement agreement and may make a contribution towards anexecutive director then non-executive director of Skyepharma.
Notwithstanding her length of service Susan is considered by the Board to be independent in both character and judgement and there has been significant Board refreshment during her tenure.
Further details of theevaluation are contained in the Corporate governance report on page 70.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 91 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Directors remuneration policy continued Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees Other remuneration policies continued regarding the policy, the Committee considers the general base Remuneration for new appointments salary increase for the broader employee population when Where it is necessary to recruit or replace an Executive Director, determining the annual salary increases and remuneration theCommittee has determined that the new Executive Director packages for the Executive Directors.
Accordingly, the Committee willreceive a compensation package in accordance with the confirms that the remuneration policy outlined above has been provisions of the policy.
designed with due regard to the policy for remuneration of employees across the Group.
In setting base salaries for new Executive Directors, the Committee will consider the existing salary package of the new Director and the The remuneration of Senior Executives below Board level is reviewed individuals level of experience.
In setting the annual performance by the Committee on an annual basis.
The remuneration packages bonus, the Committee may wish to set different performance metrics of these Executives are consistent with the policy outlined above, to those of other Executive Directors in the first year of appointment.
save that lower bonus percentages and lower LTIP opportunities Where it is appropriate to offer a below-median salary on initial are applicable.
Variable pay elements for Senior Executives are appointment, the Committee will have the discretion to allow driven principally by market comparatives and the overall impact phased salary increases over a period of time for a newly appointed ofthe role the individual holds at Vectura.
Long-term incentives Director, even though this may involve increases in excess of areprovided to those individuals identified as having significant inflation and the increases awarded to the wider workforce.
potential to influence Group performance.
The Committee wishes to retain the ability to make buyout awards All employees are rewarded with a market-competitive remuneration to a new Executive Director to facilitate the recruitment process.
package that includes certain key benefits such as life assurance, The amount of any such award would not exceed the expected permanent health insurance, private medical insurance, access to value being forfeited and, to the extent possible, would mirror the the pension scheme and participation in Vecturas all-employee form of payment, timing and degree of conditionality, etc.
Where share schemes and many have eligibility to receive a bonus.
The awards are granted subject to performance conditions, these would bonus scheme for Directors and employees is designed to reward be relevant to Vectura Group plc.
Any such award would only be performance, and all individuals are required to achieve challenging made in exceptional circumstances and shareholders would be personal goals.
informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
How shareholders views are taken into account Share-based awards would be made using the existing share plans, The Committee takes an active interest in shareholders views where possible, although the Committee may also use the flexibility andvoting on the Remuneration report.
In developing the current provided under the Listing Rules to make awards without prior policy, the Committee engaged directly with major shareholders shareholder approval.
and their representative bodies regarding the changes to salaries In respect of internal appointments, any commitments entered into awarded following completion of the merger and also to the policy in respect of a prior role, including variable pay elements, may be going forward.
allowed to pay out according to its prior terms.
This has informed a number of the key revisions to the proposed policy: For external and internal appointments, the Committee may consider the scaling back of the proposed salary increases post-merger: it appropriate to pay reasonable relocation or incidental expenses, including payment of reasonable legal expenses.
Tax equalisation the introduction of a two-year post-vesting holding period for may be considered if an Executive Director is adversely affected awards made in 2017 and subsequently under the LTIP: bytaxation due to their employment with the Company.
the introduction of a financial performance metric for awards The terms of appointment for a Non-Executive Director will be in made in 2017 and subsequently under the LTIP: and accordance with the remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors as set out in the policy table.
This was the case with the appointment bonus deferral into shares under the annual bonus for awards of Juliet Thompson in December 2017. inexcess of 100% of salary.
The Committee will continue to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any material changes to the policy be proposed.
92 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Advice to the Committee Annual report on remuneration The Committee takes account of information from both internal and Remuneration Committee the Committee independent sources, including New Bridge Street NBS Aon plcs Governance executive remuneration consultancy, which acts as the Committees The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive principal, and only material, advisor.
NBS advises on all aspects of Directors.
The Committee is chaired by Susan Foden and, duringthe Vecturas remuneration policy and reviews Vecturas remuneration year ended 31 December 2017, its members were BrunoAngelici, structures against corporate governance best practice.
Thomas Werner, Neil Warner, and with effect from 20 December 2017, NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group Juliet Thompson.
and complies with its Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance toensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
Code, the Board has confirmed that Bruno Angelici was independent The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its upon his appointment to the Board.
No conflicts of interest have advisors on an annual basis.
During the period, Vectura incurred arisen during the period and none of the members of the Committee fees of 223,596 from NBS.
have any personal financial interest in the matters discussed, other The Groups Executive Vice President Human Resources provides than as shareholders.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are updates to the Committee, as required, to ensure that the Committee determined by the Board on the joint recommendation of the is fully informed about pay and performance issues throughout Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee takes these factors into account when The Committees principal function is to support Vecturas strategy determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and by ensuring that those individuals responsible for delivering the SeniorExecutives.
The CEO and CFO also attend at the Committees strategy are appropriately incentivised and rewarded through the request but are not present in discussions directly regarding their operation of Vecturas remuneration policy.
In determining the own remuneration.
Groups policy, and in constructing the remuneration arrangements During 2017, we reviewed our reward strategy below Board level for Executive Directors and senior employees, the Board, advised to harmonise our terms and conditions to the fullest extent possible by the Committee, aims to provide remuneration packages that are within local legislative parameters.
Harmonisation took place in competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate Executive 2017 and the Committee ensured it is aligned to our newly defined Directors and senior employees of the highest calibre.
values and behaviours to ensure that our reward practices will both The Committee is responsible for and considered during the period: reinforce and embed our target culture.
No Executive Director or employee is allowed to participate in any discussion directly relating setting a remuneration policy that is designed to promote the to their own personal conditions of service or remuneration.
long-term success of the Company: ensuring that the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Key decisions during the period other Senior Executives reflects both their individual performance The Committee met seven times during the year ended 31December2017.
and their contribution to the overall Group results: The key decisions made by the Committee during the period are determining the terms of employment and remuneration of the summarised below: Executive Directors and Senior Executives, including recruitment and retention terms: determination of the leaver arrangements for Trevor Phillips: approving the design and performance targets of any annual approval of 2018 base salary increases for Executive Directors incentive schemes that include the Executive Directors and and other members of the Executive Leadership Team, ensuring SeniorExecutives: that, where appropriate, these are aligned both internally andexternally: agreeing the design and performance targets, where applicable, of all share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval: review of achievement against the 2017 corporate goals and approval of the percentage of the bonus pool to be paid out rigorously assessing the appropriateness and subsequent across the Group, and a review of achievement against personal achievement of the performance targets related to any share goals for Executive Directors: incentive plans: determination of performance against the TSR conditions for recommending to the Board the fees to be paid to the Chairman.
awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, resulting in The Chairman is excluded from this process: and theapproval of zero vesting of the awards granted in 2014: the selection and appointment of the external advisors to approval of the grant of the 2017 LTIP awards and theCommittee to provide independent remuneration advice : where necessary.
review of the Companys gender pay gap data: and The Committee is formally constituted and operates on written terms of reference, which are modelled on the Code and are review of remuneration packages for the appointment of new available on Vecturas website, www.
Senior Executives and, where appropriate, confirming approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 93 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Audited information Directors remuneration twelve-months ended 31 December 2017 The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the period is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments plus Company pension contributions, and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the twelve-months to 31 December 2017, being nil.
Basic Pension SIP SAYE Total a b c d e f g salary Benefits Bonus LTIP entitlements Other awards remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors J Ward-Lilley 502 28 407 100 4 1,041 A Derodra 348 4 257 70 4 683 1 T M Phillips 127 15 74 51 225 492 Non-Executive Directors B F J Angelici 150 150 2 F Condella 75 14 89 S E Foden 60 60 N W Warner 58 58 2 P-O Andersson 50 10 60 T Werner 50 50 3 J Thompson 4 4 1,424 47 738 221 249 8 2,687 1 T M Phillips stepped down fr om the Board on 25 May 2017.
He received payment in lieu of notice of 150,528 in the period and 65,824 by way of compensation and settlement.
Prior to stepping down he received annual benefits of approximately 8,750 relating to US medical and dental insurance.
T M Phillips also made employee contributions towards this plan.
Benefits include a payment of 13,582 for outstanding holiday accrued prior to stepping down from the Board.
2 PO Andersson and F Condella receive a 2,000 allowance for each Board meeting that requires transatlantic travel and these amounts are shown as Other in the table above.
P-O Andersson received 22,000 for travel allowance in 2017, of which 2,000 relates to travel in the year ended 31 March 2016, 6,000 to travel in nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 and 4,000 to travel in January 2018.
3 J Thompson joined the Boar d on 1 December 2017.
Directors remuneration nine-months ended 31 December 2016 The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the period is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments plus Company pension contributions, and the value of long-term incentive awards vesting by reference to performance in the nine-months to 31 December 2016.
2 2 to J Ward-Lilley vesting on 24 September 2016 and 7 June 2016 are shown in the table under Other.
2 A Derodra was appointed as Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the merger with Skyepharma on 10 June 2016.
3 T M Phillips received annual benefits of approximately 15,000 relating to US medical and dental insurance.
4 A J Oakley stepped down as Chief Financial Officer upon completion of the mer ger with Skyepharma on 10 June 2016.
He received payment in lieu of notice of 141,882 in the period and96,376 by way of compensation and settlement and up to 30,000 towards outplacement fees.
A further payment of 141,882 in lieu of notice was made six-months later ashehadnot materially breached any of the terms of the settlement agreement or commenced employment which is equivalent to his twelve-month notice entitlement.
5 J Brown retired from the Board on 11 July 2016.
6 P-O Andersson and F Condella receive a 2,000 allowance for each Board meeting that requires transatlantic travel and these amounts are shown as Other in the table above.
94 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Notes to the remuneration tables a This is the amount earned in respect of the financial period.
b This is the taxable value of benefits paid or payable in respect of the financial period.
These benefits typically relate to death, disability and medical insurance.
T M Phillips also received benefits in relation to US medical and dental insurance and A J Oakley received worldwide medical and dental insurance and was provided with a relocation allowance.
c This is the total bonus earned under the annual bonus scheme in respect of the financial year.
d The amount shown relates to the market value of LTIP awards whose performance period ended during the year.
Refer to page 99 fordetails of LTIP awards.
e UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded.
TheCommittee has previously determined that impacted Executive Directors would receive pension benefits limited by the prescribed maximum amounts and an additional taxable supplementary cash payment equal to the cost to the Company of the pension benefit foregone.
The amount of the allowance awarded to any Executive Director so impacted has been set by the Committee so that there isno additional cost to the Company resulting from this arrangement.
f Other payments in 2017 relate to travel allowances for F Condella and P-O Andersson and payments made under agreement with TMPhillips: amounts paid to T M Phillips are described later in this report on page 101. g This relates to matching and free share SIP awards granted during the year and SAYE awards which have vested during the year.
Thebenefit of the SIP awards is calculated as the number of shares awarded multiplied by the share price on the date of the award.
The benefit of the SAYE award is calculated as the number of options awarded multiplied by the discount to the market share price onthe date the option was awarded.
Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration audited information Performance-related pay earned in the year to 31 December 2017 Annual performance bonus Employees are eligible for an annual discretionary cash bonus, whereby performance objectives are established at the beginning of the financial period by reference to suitably challenging corporate goals.
The scheme is offered to many staff below Board level and maximum bonus opportunities range from 10% to 75% of salary, depending on grade.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
The Committee has consistently set stretching corporate goals, including goals around revenue generation, development pipeline progress, partnering successes and control of cash expenditure, which are weighted towards goals with the highest corporate significance.
In addition, a significant percentage of the bonus potential is set against challenging personal objectives which are linked to the overall business strategy.
Bonuses were limited to a maximum of 135% of basic salary for the CEO and 125% for the CFO.
The performance objectives against which bonus payments were calculated are set out in the table below.
Full disclosure of some objectives has been restricted due to commercial sensitivity: however, full disclosure will be provided as and when the objectives cease to be commercially sensitive.
It is anticipated that disclosure will be made in the following year, in line with best practice.
The Committee assessed that a bonus of 74%81% 2016: 77%99.5% of salary was appropriate for the Executive Directors when judged by the achievement of the metrics set out in the tables below.
Threshold Maximum Actual Revenue Target 172.7m 172.8m 183.0m 193.1m 203.3m 213.5m 223.6m 233.8m 148.0m % of bonus 0% 5% 7.5% 10.0% 12.5% 15.0% 17.5% 20% 0% Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA EBITDA 49.0m or 25.8m synergies Synergies Target 10m 49.1m 52.0m 54.9m 57.8m 60.7m 63.6m 66.47m of 12m % of bonus 05% 5% 7.5% 10.0% 12.5% 15.0% 17.5% 20% 4% Total 0% 10.0% 15.0% 20.0% 25.0% 30.0% 35.0% 40.0% 4% Given the importance of delivering the synergies announced to the market as part of the merger, threshold for the Adjusted EBITDA performance target required synergies of at least 10m, for which up to 5% of this element could be paid or Adjusted EBITDA of at least 49.1m, for which 5% would be paid.
The Committee determined that 4% for this element would be paid for expected Synergies of 12m expected to be delivered by the end of 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 95 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration audited information continued Performance-related pay earned in the year to 31 December 2017 continued Annual performance bonus continued Level of bonus awarded as a % ofmetric % of Performance measure Weighting Targets fullbonus Commentary Pipeline and technology 20% VR475 and VR647 Phase III and Phase II 18% VR475 Phase III recruitment completed ahead of progression study progression to key milestones.
VR647 US P2 study first patient dosed.
VR942 Phase I completion, Positive Phase I study presented at American communication and clear Phase II Thoracic Society meeting.
Aligned with UCB on development strategy.
out-licensing of asset for future development.
Key new generic partner programme Licensing of VR2081 with Sandoz and inprogression.
licensing of advanced tiotropium formulation from Pulmatrix VR410.
Key supply chain improvements for flutiform and nebulizer manufacturing VR2076 Triple programme development and industrialisation.
Good flutiform supply chain progress and roadmap for AKITA and FOX nebulizer capacity development in place alongside short-term yield increases achieved.
Execution of valuable new 20% Completion of new deals with NPV in line 20% Target fully met with valuable new deals being business development with corporate strategy.
completed with Sandoz, Dynavax and Pulmatrix.
Efficient, effective working 10% Implementation of new culture, values 10% Fully implemented across all sites and environment and behaviours programme.
alignedwithin all management frameworks, e. g. performance management and Integration systems and simplification .
Systematic delivery including in HR, Finance, Implementation of workspace and site Legal, Quality and IT in 2017 and completing development plans.
Significant workspace improvements made inChippenham and Cambridge.
Initial site roadmap reviewed with Board Q4.
Individual objectives 10% Corporate and functional and 68% teamtarget.
Total 60% 5456% 96 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE The personal objectives set in respect of the 2017 bonus plan are set out below: Personal objectives Key aspects of performance against individual objectives Performance J Ward-Lilley Corporate strategy reviewed Full market, competition, capabilities and financial outlook review Met and endorsed bythe Board.
completed with strategy and refocused investment plan endorsed byBoard and communicated to market.
Enhanced investor Significant improvement in clarity of messaging and focus on Partially met communication including increasingUS holding of Vectura stock but work still ongoing to effective Capital simplifyand clarify communication.
Successful completion of Capital Markets Day with explanation of product opportunity and development plans for VR475 and VR647.
Enhanced efficiency and Improved preparations for governance and Board interactions Met effectiveness of corporate reflectedin2017 Board evaluation including updates provided governance and Board .
A Derodra Proactively support delivery Tight financial control including cash management.
Proactive management of VR315 risk mitigation including R&Dcostandproject prioritisation.
Effective finance support for BD licensing, supply chain andcapitalprojects.
Effective tracking of synergy delivery ahead and above plan.
Met Integrated Group finance reporting tools and systems harmonization ongoing as planned for full implementation in 2018.
Significant progress made in simplification of Group structure, freeing oftrapped cash and ensuring distributable reserves in Vectura Group plc.
Enhanced investor Significant effort made to improve breadth and quality Partially met communication including ofanalystcoverage.
effective investor Ongoing focus on clarifying and simplifying Vecturas investor relationsactivities.
Corporate strategy fully Fully supported review of market, competition, capabilities and Met reviewed and endorsed financialoutlook with strategy and refocused investment plan bythe Board.
endorsedby Board and communicated to market.
T M Phillips Delivery of integration targets.
Leadership of integration programme office.
Met Synergy targets on track to be delivered earlier and above goal.
Full implementation of New team structures delivering synergies, enhancing accountability, Partially met post-merger organisation andeffective cross-functional working developed.
structure and systems Full systems integration delivery ongoing.
Effective supply chain Sustained delivery and maintenance of supply chain for flutiform Met delivery for flutiform and anddelivery of commercial Breelib stocks and Ablynx Phase II supplies.
Enhanced leverage of Improved contracting reflecting Vectura investment in productivity Partially met flutiform supply chain improvements ongoing.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 97 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration audited information continued Performance-related pay earned in the year to 31 December 2017 continued Annual performance bonus continued The resulting annual bonus awards were as follows: Maximum Total Actual % opportunity Actual % of awarded of maximum % salary salary 000 J Ward-Lilley 60% 135% 81.00% 406,823 A Derodra 59% 125% 73.75% 256,517 T M Phillips 58% 100% 58.00% 73,677 Bonus award pro-rated for the period worked from 1 January 2017 to 31 May 2017.
Under the policy approved in 2017, any bonus up to 100% of salary is payable in cash, with the remainder deferred into shares for two years.
As a result of the above outcomes, bonuses are paid entirely in cash.
LTIP scheme Scheme interests vested during the period On 1 July 2014, an award of LTIP options was made to the Executive Directors who were in office at this time.
As disclosed in the 2016 report, James Ward-Lilley also has an award subject to the same conditions granted as part of his buyout arrangements.
Vesting of these awards was calculated in the period by our consultants, New Bridge Street, as follows: Measure Performance target Actual performance The vesting outcome for each comparator group is calculated as follows: TSR against Vecturas TSR of -3.0% was below constituents of the Level of comparative performance during the constituents of the FTSE SmallCap theperformance period Percentage of LTIP award released FTSE SmallCap Index Index over the measurement period.
50% of award Consequently, none of this element of Below median the awards was eligible to vest.
1 TSR against Euro Stoxx At or above median 25 Vecturas TSR of -3.0% was below the 1 comparator group median of the peer group over the Upper quartile 100 2 50% of award measurement period.
Consequently, noneof this element of the awards waseligible to vest.
2 The full Eur opean pharmaceutical comparator group used for these awards is Ablynx, Active Biotech, ALK-Abell, BB Biotech, BTG, Faes Farma, Galapagos, Genmab, Hikma, Ipsen, Medivir, Pharma Mar, Recordati, Stada Arzneimittel, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum, ThromboGenics, Tubize and Virbac.
On 24 September 2015, an award of LTIP options was made to the Executive Directors who were in office at this time.
The awards are subject to relative TSR, measured over three tranches over three or five years against two comparator groups each representing 50% of the total award.
40% of the award vests on 24 September 2018 with performance measured up to 31 December 2017 and the remaining 60% of the award 40% for the standard five-year award and 20% for the kicker award vests on 24 September 2020.
Vesting of the first tranche of these awards was calculated in the period by New Bridge Street, as follows: Measure Performance target Actual performance The vesting outcome for each comparator group is calculated as follows: TSR against constituents Vecturas TSR of -31.6% was below the Level of comparative performance during of the FTSE 250 constituents of the FTSE 250 companies theperformance period Percentage of LTIP award released companies excluding excluding real estate and financial real estate and services over the measurement period.
Below median financialservices Consequently, none of this element of 50%of award the awards was eligible to vest.
1 TSR against selected At or above median 15 Vecturas TSR of -31.6% was below European pharmaceutical 1 the median of the peer group over the Upper quartile 100 companies 50% of measurement period.
Consequently, 2 award noneof this element of the awards wereeligible to vest.
2 The full Eur opean pharmaceutical comparator group used for these awards is AB Science, Ablynx, Actelion, ALK-Abell, Almirall, Basilea, Bavarian Nordic, Biotest, Boiron, BTG, Celyad, CHRHansen, Circassia, Consort Medical, Cosmo, Dechra, Evotec, Faes Farma, Galapagos, Genfit, Genmab, Genus, Grifols, Guerbet, Hikma, Innate Pharma, Ipsen, KRKA, Lonza, Lundbeck, Meda, Medivir, Merck KGaA, MorphoSys, Novozymes, Orion, Pharma Mar, Qiagen, Recordati, Richter Gedeon, ROVI, Shire, Siegfried, SOBI, Sopharma, Stada Arzneimittel, Stallergenes, ThromboGenics, Transgene, UCB, Valneva, Vtoquinol, Virbac and Zealand Pharma.
98 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE As a result, the LTIP options awarded to current Executive Directors have lapsed as follows: Number Percentage of Exercise Value of LTIP of options award price awards vesting Director Type of award Vesting date awarded vested p J Ward-Lilley Buyout of AZ 2014 LTIP 1 July 2017 273,635 0% nil J Ward-Lilley 2015 LTIP tranche one 24 September 2018 252,100 0% nil Total 525,735 In accordance with the rules of Vecturas LTIP scheme, the Committee determined that Chris Blackwell, who retired as CEO on 30 June 2015, Andrew Oakley, who retired as CFO on 10 June 2016, and Trevor Phillips, who stepped down from the Board on 25 May 2017, should be treated as good leavers.
During the period 300,751 awards made to Chris Blackwell, 165,413 awards made to Andrew Oakley and 206,766 awards made to Trevor Phillips were due to vest in respect of their 2014 awards.
Vesting of awards was subject to pro-rating to their dates of departure.
However, as a result of the outcome of the performance conditions, all awards lapsed.
In respect of their 2015 awards, 157,913 awards made to both Trevor Phillips and Andrew Oakley respectively will lapse on 24 September 2018, based on the outcome of the above performance conditions.
Scheme interests awarded during the period audited Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The following awards of nominal cost options were granted to the Executive Directors under the 2015 LTIP scheme on 25 May 2017: Share price used to Number determine % that End of 2 of options Value of level of award Face value Exercise price vests at performance 1 Director Date of grant awarded award p p threshold period J Ward-Lilley 25 May 2017 776,242 185% 119.7 929,162 0.025 15% 31 December 2019 A Derodra 25 May 2017 537,566 185% 119.7 643,467 0.025 15% 31 December 2019 Total 1,313,808 1,572,629 1 Details of the relevant performance conditions are set out overleaf.
2 The share price used for awards made on 25 May was the closing mid-market price on the date prior to the award.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP audited The awards granted under the 2015 LTIP scheme on 25 May 2017 are subject to relative TSR and cumulative growth in adjusted EBITDA, measured over three years each representing 50% of the total award, as set out in the following table: Proportion of total award Performance period Measure Performance required for vesting 50% Three years Relative TSR against FTSE 250 companies Median 15% to upper quartile 100% excluding real estate and financial services 50% Three years Cumulative adjusted growth in adjusted EBITDA Threshold 15% : 86.7m Maximum 100% : 120.6m Given the lack of clarity concerning the timing of regulatory approval of VR315, the Committee postponed the setting of the EBITDA targets and set a deadline in this regard of the final quarter 2017.
Accordingly the targets were agreed and set in December 2017.
The market was further updated of the regulatory status of VR315 at the start of 2018 and in line with our commitment to publish targets once this had occurred, we now disclose the relevant details in this report.
As a business with a significant annual investment in research and development the Committee is highly conscious of the need to ensure that the performance against the EBITDA targets is consistent with a disciplined approach to research and development expenditure.
Thetargets have therefore been set on the basis of planned levels of research and development spend.
In order to ensure that participants are not inappropriately rewarded for changes in research and development expenditure, the Committee will have discretion to take account of changes in planned levels of research and development spend when determining performance against the performance conditions.
Any such adjustments will be fully disclosed to shareholders at the point of vesting, Performance against the TSR condition will be measured by the Committees independent advisors.
Irrespective of the extent to which the conditions have been met, the Committee may decrease the percentage vesting based on a range of factors, including the Groups performance, absolute shareholder returns and progress against milestones.
Any exercise of this discretion by the Committee will be fully disclosed to shareholders with an explanation of the Committees reasoning in the Remuneration report for the relevant year.
To the extent that performance conditions are not met in full at the end of the three-year performance period, awards lapse.
The Committee has the power to claw back and or apply a malus mechanism in respect of all or part of the awards payments for one year following vesting in the event of a material misstatement, error in the calculation of performance against the performance conditions of the plan or any other matter which it deems relevant to this provision.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 99 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table of remuneration audited information continued Scheme interests awarded during the period audited continued SIP free share awards An award of free shares was made to all employees on 28 December 2017 under Vecturas Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The awards are subject to a three-year holding period and no performance conditions are attached, except for continued employment.
The awards made to Directors who held office on 28 December 2017 are shown in the table below: Closing share Number of price on day Face shares before grant value % that vests Director awarded p at threshold Vesting date J Ward-Lilley 3,157 114 3,598 100 29 December 2020 A Derodra 3,157 114 3,598 100 29 December 2020 Total 6,314 7,196 Sharesave Vectura Group plc also operates a Sharesave SAYE Share Option Scheme for employees and Executive Directors.
Under this scheme all eligible employees and Executive Directors are invited to subscribe for options, which may be granted at a discount of up to20% of market value and which vest after three or five years.
The SAYE is an HMRC-approved all-employee plan to which performance conditions do not apply.
No Sharesave options vestedfor Executive Directors during the year.
Total pension entitlements As stated in the notes to the single figure remuneration table, UK tax legislation imposes penalty taxes on annual pension contributions where prescribed maximum amounts are exceeded.
Impacted Executive Directors receive an additional taxable supplementary cash payment in lieu of pension contributions in excess of any limits.
Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information As a direct link between Executive remuneration and the interests of shareholders, the Committee has shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and key senior employees.
The guidelines require that Executive Directors build up and maintain an interest in theordinary shares of the Company that is 200% of their annual base salary.
In assessing compliance with this requirement, the value ofthe shareholding shown below is assessed using the share price on 29 December 2017, being 118p.
The value as a percentage of salaryhas been calculated using the base salary as at 29 December 2017, as shown in the single figure remuneration table.
Until this level of shareholding has been attained, Executive Directors are required to retain at least half of any share awards vesting asshares after paying any tax due until they have a holding equivalent to at least 200% of their base salary.
LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions Shares owned Unvested Vested Unvested Vested 31 December Value of Awards 2017 owned Awards granted under ordinary shares shares as 2015 2016 granted under 2017 LR 9.4.
2 2 Unapproved Approved Unapproved Approved 1 1 3 2 4 of 0.025p each a % of salary award award LR 9.4.
2 2 award and LTIP schemes scheme scheme Sharesave scheme scheme Sharesave Executive Directors J Ward-Lilley 461,860 109 378,152 780,838 776,242 3,157 A Derodra 415,146 141 532,147 537,566 3,157 T M Phillips 484,917 186 236,869 489,108 Non-Executive Directors B F J Angelici 162,903 F Condella 169,946 S E Foden 17,500 P-O Andersson N W Warner 30,477 T Werner 124,341 J Thompson As at date of stepping down from the Board, being 25 May 2017.
100 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Received in cash 000 Executive Directors J Ward-Lilley 100 A Derodra 70 1 T M Phillips 17 Total 187 1 Trevor Phillips stood down from the Board on 25 May 2017.
Payments made for loss of office and payments to past Directors audited information Trevor Phillips stepped down from the Board as Chief Operations Officer and President of US Operations at the AGM last year on 25May 2017 and left the Company on 31 May 2017.
He received normal pay and benefits up to this date and received his bonus inrespect of 2016.
Under the terms of his settlement agreement, Trevor Phillips received a sum of 216,352, which was comprised of 65,824 in lieu of any statutory or redundancy entitlements and 150,528 equivalent to approximately six-months salary by way of payment in lieu of notice.
The Company paid the sum of 8,750 in lieu of healthcare benefits for the balance ofthe contractual notice period.
He received a monthly cash payment in lieu of pension contributions up to 31 December 2017.
TheCompany also agreed to provide 2,500 plus VAT towards reasonable legal fees inconnection with the termination of employment.
As disclosed on page 98 he also received a pro-rata bonus payment of 73,677 for the period worked from 1 January 2017 to 31 May 2017 based on the Company and individual performance.
He was treated as a good leaver under the LTIP.
Outstanding awards will vest on their normal vesting dates, subject to the satisfaction ofany relevant performance conditions, pro-rated based on the period from the date of grant of the awards to 31May 2017.
He was automatically treated as a good leaverunder the Share Incentive Plan and, as a result, all free shares, partnership shares and matching shares held by him underthe SIP on the date of cessation were released.
1 The 2015 and 2016 awar ds consist of a The Directors who have held office during the period ended 31 December 2017 and their interests three-year tranche, a five-year tranche inrespect of which transactions arenotifiable to the Company under the Financial Conduct Authoritys and a five-year kicker.
In accordance Transparency Rules in the share capital of Vectura Group plc at 31December 2017 are shown in the with the outcome of the performance conditions for the three-year tranche, following table below.
Theabove unvested awards reflect There was no change in the Directors interests between 31 December 2017 and 20 March 2018, the theremaining five-year tranche and date of this report.
2 In accordance with the outcome of the performance conditions as outlined on LTIP awards subject to performance conditions Share option awards not subject to performance conditions page 99, 273,635 of unvested options have lapsed.
Shares owned Unvested Vested Unvested Vested 3 The 2017 awards are subject to 31 December Value of Awards performance conditions measures over 2017 owned Awards granted under three years from 1 January 2017.
Vesting ordinary shares shares as 2015 2016 granted under 2017 LR 9.4.
2 2 Unapproved Approved Unapproved Approved 1 1 3 2 4 of 50% of the awards is dependent on of 0.025p each a % of salary award award LR 9.4.
2 2 award and LTIP schemes scheme scheme Sharesave scheme scheme Sharesave relative TSR performance against FTSE 250 excluding financial services and real Executive Directors estate sector companies and the J Ward-Lilley 461,860 109 378,152 780,838 776,242 3,157 remaining 50% based on cumulative three-year growth in EBITDA.
The awards are subject to a three-year holding period Non-Executive Directors with no performance conditions.
B F J Angelici 162,903 F Condella 169,946 S E Foden 17,500 P-O Andersson N W Warner 30,477 T Werner 124,341 J Thompson As at date of stepping down from the Board, being 25 May 2017.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 101 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Unaudited information Performance graph and table The following graph shows Vectura Group plcs cumulative total shareholder return TSR over the last nine financial years relative to theFTSE 250 Index.
This index was chosen as Vectura is one of the constituent companies and the Committee feels that it is the most appropriate against which to measure performance.
TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and any other payments made to or by shareholders within the period.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 March March March March March March March March December December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 Vectura Group PLC FTSE 250 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2017, of 100 invested in Vectura Group PLC on 31 March 2009, compared with the value of100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
3 Upon appointment, James W ard-Lilley received nil-cost options, certain of which vested immediately and certain vested on the first anniversary of appointment subject to performance conditions.
Refer to page 98 for further details.
102 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Value rebased GOVERNANCE Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Set out below is the change over the prior period in base salary, benefits, pension and annual performance bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and the Groups employees.
To aid comparison the percentage change has been calculated using a full year equivalent number forthe nine-month 2016 financial period: James Ward-Lilley 1 Chief Executive Officer All employees 2017 000 Percentage change 12 months 2016 vs. FY 2017 Percentage change Salary 502 4.5% 2.1% Benefits 28 8.7% Bonus 407 14.1% 34.7% 1 % figures based on annualised change.
Relative importance of Executive Director remuneration Total revenue, research and development expenditure and adjusted EBITDA have been selected as comparators for the employee costs as these three financial measures are strong indicators of the activity within the Group and of its performance.
To aid comparison with 2017, 2016 twelve-month proforma figures have been used.
12 months FY 2016 2017 Change m m m Total employee remuneration 42.1 42.1 Employee headcount as at 31 December 453 478 25 Revenue 183.6 148.0 35.6 Research and development expenditure 65.1 60.3 4.8 Adjusted EBITDA 54.7 25.8 28.9 Distributions to shareholders Twelve-month proforma figures used, as per the Financial review on page 56.
Statement of shareholder voting at 2017 AGM At last years AGM held on 25 May 2017, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were asfollows: For including Total votes cast Total votes discretionary excluding Votes cast including 1 votes Against votes withheld withheld votes withheld To approve the Directors remuneration policy 518,828,772 18,505,659 537,334,431 16,469,480 553,803,911 % of votes cast 96.56% 3.44% To approve the Remuneration report 522,296,809 23,001,558 545,298,367 8,505,545 553,803,912 % of votes cast 95.78% 4.22% 1 A vote that is withheld does not constitute a vote in law and has not therefore been included in the totals above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 103 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Unaudited information continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Base salaries Salary from 1 January 2018 or date of appointment Increase J Ward-Lilley 515,811 2.7% A Derodra 357,211 2.7% Bonus The annual bonus maximum is 135% of salary for the CEO and 125% of salary for the CFO.
Up to 100% of salary is payable in cash, withany excess compulsorily deferred into shares for two years.
Performance measures for Executive Directors will include targets relating to creating strategic growth opportunities, securing existing pipeline value and achieving financial growth, with the following weightings: financial goals, revenue and EBITDA: 40%: corporate objectives, including strategy, partnering deals, pipeline and organisation development: 50%: and personal objectives: 10%.
The performance targets set for the above measures will be disclosed in Vecturas 2018 Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with the policy set out on pages 86 to 89 of this report.
LTIP Awards granted in 2018 will consist of: A grant of performance shares with a face value of 185% of salary.
Performance will be measured over three financial years, commencing with 2018, based against the two following performance conditions: 50% against relative TSR ranking vs. FTSE 250 Index companies excluding financial services and real estate sector companies : and 50% against growth in cumulative adjusted EBITDA.
Threshold will be set at 120m and stretch maximum at 155m, with linear vesting between these points.
15% of the total award vesting at threshold median performance, increasing to 100% vesting at stretch upper quartile performance.
Following vesting, a further two-year holding period will apply.
Recovery and withholding conditions continue to apply.
Non-Executive Directors fees Non-Executive Director and Chairman fees will be unchanged from the current fees which were effective from 1 July 2016: Fee Chairman 150,000 Vice Chairman 75,000 1 Committee Chairs SID 58,000 Other NEDs 50,000 1 In the event that an individual holds a Committee chairmanship and holds the position of Senior Independent Dir ector they will receive an additional fee of 2,000 bringing the total maximum fee level to 60,000.
In addition, where a Non-Executive Director is required to undertake transatlantic travel to attend a Board meeting, an allowance of2,000 is provided per trip.
On behalf of the Board Dr Susan Foden Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 March 2018 104 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
