130 131 Remuneration Policy report Derwent Londons Remuneration Policy remains unchanged from that approved by shareholders at the AGM on 19 May 2017 Summary of remuneration elements for executive Directors which was approved by 98.40% of those shareholders who voted.
For convenience, extracts from the policy are included Fixed pay below with numbers and dates appropriately updated to provide context for how decisions were made during the year.
Base salary Benefits Pension Our full Remuneration Policy can be found on our website at: www.
com investors governance board-committees Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy To help recruit, retain and motivate high calibre To provide a market-competitive benefits package To help recruit and retain high-calibre Remuneration for executive Directors comprises the following elements: executives.
Reflects experience and importance to to help recruit and retain high-calibre executives.
executives and reward continued the business.
Medical benefits to help minimise disruption to business.
Fixed pay Variable pay Operation Operation Operation Normally reviewed annually.
Any increase is normally Benefits include, but are not limited to, private medical The Company operates a defined effective from 1 January.
Factors taken into account in insurance, car and fuel allowance and life assurance.
the review include: Where contributions would exceed In certain circumstances, the Committee may also either the lifetime or annual The role, experience and performance of the individual approve additional allowances relating to relocation contribution limits, cash payments and the Company: of an executive Director or other expatriate benefits Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Long-term incentive Total remuneration in lieu are made.
Economic conditions: required to perform the role.
Increases throughout the rest of the business: and The Committee may provide other employee benefits to Levels in companies with similar business executive Directors on broadly similar terms to the wider characteristics.
Salaries are set after having due regard to the salary The Committee has the ability to reimburse reasonable levels operating in companies of a broadly similar size and Performance-based business related expenses and any tax thereon.
complexity, the responsibilities of each individual role, individual performance and an individuals experience.
Maximum Maximum Maximum A summary of our policy on fixed pay is on page 131 A summary of our policy on variable pay is on page 132 Details on the total remuneration paid to our Fixed pay in 2017 is on page 121 Variable pay in 2017 is on pages 122 and 123 Directors in 2017 is on page 120 The current salary levels are detailed in the Annual The maximum cost of providing benefits is not Directors receive a contribution or Report on Remuneration on page 125 and will be eligible pre-determined and may vary from year-to-year based cash supplement or a mix of both for increases during the period that the Directors on the overall cost to the Company in securing these of up to 20% of salary.
benefits for a population of employees particularly Legacy arrangements for some health insurance and death-in-service cover.
During this time, to the extent that salaries are Directors mean that a fixed Our aims increased, increases will normally be consistent with The only benefit which is considered to be significant amount is paid in addition to The key aims of the Committees Remuneration Policy for senior executives are: the policy applied to the workforce generally in a in value terms is the provision of a company car or the the 20% contribution.
provision of cash in lieu of providing a company car.
The continuation of these To ensure that the Company attracts, retains and motivates executives who have the skills and experience necessary to make a The value of the benefit will be either the taxable value Increases beyond those linked to the workforce arrangements for existing assessed according to HMRC rules when a company car significant contribution to the delivery of the Groups objectives: generally in a percentage of salary terms may be employees means that their is provided or the cash amount in the case of cash in lieu awarded in certain circumstances such as where there maximum pension will be up To incentivise key executives through a remuneration package that is appropriately competitive with other real estate companies of a company car.
In either case, the provision of this is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant to 21% of salary.
taking into account the experience and importance to the business of the individuals involved, while also having broad regard to benefit is limited to a cost of 50,000 per annum.
increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or the level of remuneration in FTSE 350 companies of a similar size.
The Committee also takes account of the pay and conditions complexity of the Group.
The Committee has discretion to approve a higher throughout the Company: cost in exceptional circumstances such as relocation, The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary or where factors outside of the Committees control To align, as far as possible, the interests of the senior executives with those of shareholders by providing a significant proportion of a new hire at a discount to the market level initially, have changed materially such as increases in and to implement a series of planned increases over of the Directors total remuneration potential through a balanced mix of shortand long-term performance-related elements that insurance premiums.
the subsequent few years, potentially higher than for are consistent with the Groups business strategy: the wider workforce, in order to bring the salary to the To enable executive Directors to accumulate shareholdings in the Company over time that are personally meaningful to them: desired position, subject to individual performance.
To ensure that performance measures under incentive schemes support the Companys strategy, have appropriately stretching Performance framework Performance framework Performance framework performance conditions attached and are designed so as to be consistent with best practice: and A broad assessment of personal and corporate None.
To ensure that the Groups remuneration structure does not encourage management to adopt an unacceptable risk profile for performance is considered as part of the salary review.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 132 133 Remuneration Policyreport continued Variable pay Variable pay continued Annual bonus Long-term incentives Share ownership guidelines Annual bonus Long-term incentives Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Performance framework Performance framework Performance framework To incentivise the annual delivery of stretching financial To align the long-term interests of the Directors with To provide alignment between At least 75% of the annual bonus will be based Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year None.
Financial performance those of the Groups shareholders, to incentivise value executives and shareholders.
on financial measures with up to 25% based on performance against a challenging range of performance measures reflect KPIs of the business.
creation over the long term and to aid retention.
targets, with at least one third of an award based on TSR.
Metrics may include but are not limited to: Other metrics may include, but are not limited to, Operation Operation Operation total property return relative to an appropriate IPD or Total return against other comparable real estate Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after The Committee makes an award of performance shares Executive Directors are required equivalent index, total return and NAV or earnings growth.
companies: the year end, based on performance against the targets each year.
to retain at least half of any Up to 22.5% of each part of an award vests for achieving set at the start of the year.
deferred bonus share awards or Total property return versus an appropriate IPD Vesting is determined by the Groups achievements the threshold performance level with full vesting for performance shares vesting net index: and Bonuses up to 100% of salary are paid as cash.
Amounts against stretching performance targets over three years achieving challenging stretch performance targets.
of tax until the guideline is met.
in excess of 100% are deferred into shares of which 50% and continued employment.
The Groups performance Performance objectives tailored to the delivery of the No awards vest for below threshold performance levels.
are released after 12 months and the balance after 24 against the targets is independently verified on behalf Only wholly-owned shares will Groups shortand medium-term strategy.
The performance criteria will be reviewed annually by months.
These deferred shares are potentially forfeitable of the Committee.
Up to 22.5% of the relevant bonus element will be the Committee prior to each grant and the Committee if the executive leaves prior to the share release date.
A further holding period of two years is required on the payable for threshold performance against the financial has discretion to vary measures and weightings as Dividend equivalents accrue on vested deferred shares.
measures, with full pay-out for achieving challenging appropriate to ensure they continue to be linked to the The bonus is not pensionable.
The cash and deferred stretch performance targets.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on performance shares delivery of Company strategy subject to the minimum elements of bonuses are subject to provisions that to the extent that performance conditions have been weighting on TSR as set out above.
The performance measures will be reviewed annually by enable the Committee to recover the cash paid met, payable at the end of the vesting or, if applicable, the Committee and the Committee retains discretion to The Committee has discretion to adjust the vesting clawback or to lapse the associated deferred shares the end of the holding period.
vary measures and weightings as appropriate subject outcome in exceptional circumstances to ensure that withhold payments in the event of a misstatement to the minimum financial measures weighting set out Clawback and malus provisions apply in the event of vesting outcomes are a true reflection of the overall of results, error in calculation or for gross misconduct.
above to ensure they continue to be linked to the misstatement, an error in calculation or as a result of performance of the Company over the performance period.
misconduct which results in the individual ceasing to Any use of discretion will be fully explained in the be a Director or employee of the Group within two The Committee has discretion to adjust the payment following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
outcome if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the overall business performance of the Company Awards will be satisfied by either newly-issued shares or over the performance period.
Any exercise of shares purchased in the market.
Any use of newly-issued discretion will be detailed in the following years shares will be limited to corporate governance compliant Annual Report on Remuneration.
dilution limits contained in the scheme rules.
Details of the bonus targets will be disclosed Maximum Maximum Maximum retrospectively in the following years Annual Report Maximum bonus potential, for the achievement of Annual award limit: up to 200% of salary in any All executive Directors on Remuneration when they are no longer deemed stretching performance conditions is 150% of salary financial year.
commercially sensitive by the Board.
Summary of remuneration elements for non-executive Directors and the Chairman Performance framework Maximum To help recruit and retain high-calibre non-executive Directors with relevant skills and Non-executives Directors fees and benefits where experience.
Reflects time commitments and scope of responsibility.
applicable may be increased at higher rates than the wider workforce given that fees may only be reviewed Operation periodically and to ensure that any changes in time The remuneration for the Chairman is set by the full Board excluding the Chairman.
commitment are appropriately recognised in the fee levels set.
The remuneration for non-executive Directors is set by the executive Directors.
The Chairman receives benefits limited to a company car and driver, secretarial provision and Performance framework office costs.
Periodic fee reviews will set a base fee and, where relevant, fees for additional None.
services such as serving on a Board Committee, chairing a Board Committee or holding the position of Senior Independent Director.
The review will consider the expected time commitments and scope of responsibilities for each role as well as market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Neither the Chairman nor non-executive Directors are eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in the Companys bonus or equity-based incentive schemes.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 134 135 Service contracts and compensation for loss of office The non-executive Directors listed below do not have service Remuneration As part of the major review of the Directors remuneration contracts but are appointed for three-year terms which expire structure undertaken in 2013 2014, all the executive Directors as follows: Policyreport entered into new service contracts dated 16 May 2014.
Executive Date of latest Directors service contracts are terminable either by the Company Non-executive Director appointment letter Expiry date providing 12 months notice or by the executive providing six continued Claudia Arney 17 April 2015 31 May 2018 months notice.
Contracts include a payment in lieu of notice Simon Fraser 27 July 2016 31 August 2018 clause which provides for monthly-phased payments throughout Cilla Snowball 26 May 2015 31 August 2018 the notice period which include pro-rated salary, benefits and Robert Rayne 25 March 2016 25 March 2019 Illustrating the application of the Remuneration Policy pension only and are subject to mitigation.
In addition, the Stephen Young 2 February 2017 31 July 2019 The Committee aims to provide a significant part of the Directors total remuneration through variable pay and the following diagram Company may also make payments in relation to any statutory Richard Dakin 2 February 2017 31 July 2019 illustrates the remuneration opportunity provided to the Directors by the remuneration structure at minimum, target and maximum claim against the Company or make a modest provision in respect Helen Gordon 8 November 2017 1 January 2021 levels of performance.
of legal costs or outplacement fees.
The new service contracts Note: Helen Gordons appointment commenced on 1 January 2018. have no change of control provisions and all other elements were Remuneration scenarios for executive Directors brought up-to-date in line with best practice.
Robert Rayne has a letter of appointment, which runs for 000s With regard to annual bonus for a departing executive Director, three years, expiring on 25 March 2019.
In addition to his fee 3,500 if employment ends by reason of death, retirement, injury, as Chairman, it provides for a car and fuel allowance, driver 3,159 ill-health, disability, redundancy or transfer of employment outside and secretary, together with a contribution to his office running 42% 3,000 2,704 the Group, or any other reason as determined by the Committee, costs.
His letter of appointment also contains provisions relating 42% i. e. the individual is a good leaver, the executive Director may to payment in lieu of notice.
2,500 be considered for a bonus payment.
If the termination is for any 2,040 other reason, any entitlement to bonus would normally lapse.
Recruitment and promotion policy 2,000 42% 1,647 Under any circumstance, it is the Committees policy to ensure The complete policy on recruitment and promotion is contained 31% 1,407 18% that any bonus payment reflects the departing executive in the Policy Report on our corporate website and in the 2016 1,500 31% 18% 1,054 30% Directors performance.
Any bonus payment will normally be Annual Report and Accounts.
Below is an abbreviated version 31% 859 30% 18% 1,000 delayed until the performance conditions have been determined of our policy.
730 52% 30% 100% 27% 539 for the relevant period and be subject to a pro-rata reduction for 100% 52% 27% 500 100% 52% 27% the portion of the relevant bonus year that the individual was When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion employed.
Deferred bonus share awards will normally lapse on the Committee will apply the same principles as contained in the 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum cessation of employment, however, in the case of good leavers, Executive Director policy table on pages 131 to 133 of this report.
John Burns Simon Silver Other Directors awards typically vest on the normal vesting date or on cessation In addition to these elements, the Committee may pay relevant Annual variable element Fixed elements Long-term variable element in the event of death.
relocation and legal expenses in order to facilitate a recruitment.
Annual bonus payments will be pro-rated for the period of With regards to PSP awards, if a participant resigns voluntarily, employment and, depending on the nature and timing of an The potential reward opportunities illustrated above were calculated using base salaries effective from 1 January 2018 full details the award lapses.
The 2014 PSP rules provide standard good appointment, the Committee reserves the right to set different of remuneration for 2018 can be found on pages 125 to 126.
The assumptions set out below have been made in compiling the leaver definitions for death, retirement, injury, ill-health, disability, performance measures, targets and weightings for the first bonus above charts: redundancy or transfer of employment outside the Group, or any plan year if considered appropriate.
In respect to an internal hire, other reason at the Committees discretion, whereby awards will existing long-term incentive awards would continue over their Assumptions Minimum Target Maximum vest at their original vesting date subject to performance criteria original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at Fixed pay Base salary effective 1 January Base salary effective 1 January Base salary effective 1 January being achieved and time pro-rating to reduce vested awards for the date of grant.
The value of benefits relates 2018.
The value of benefits relates time served in the relevant period.
The Committee can decide to taxable benefits and is based on to taxable benefits and is based on to taxable benefits and is based on not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so Should it be the case that the Remuneration Committee considers the cost of supplying those benefits the cost of supplying those benefits the cost of supplying those benefits in the particular circumstances.
Alternatively, for a good leaver, it necessary to buy out remuneration which an individual would in the year ended 31 December 2017, in the year ended 31 December 2017, in the year ended 31 December 2017, the Committee can decide that the award will vest on cessation forfeit on leaving their current employer, such compensation as a proxy.
Pension value set at 20% as a proxy.
Pension value set at 20% of salary.
subject to the performance conditions measured at that time and would be structured so that the terms of the buy-out would the same pro-rating described above.
Such treatment will apply have a fair value no higher than that of what is being forfeited Annual bonus No annual bonus payable.
50% of annual bonus payable Maximum annual bonus 100% of in the case of death.
and would generally be determined on a comparable basis taking equivalent to 75% of base salary.
bonus potential equivalent to 150% into account the form, structure and vesting schedule of the of base salary.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment detailed remuneration being replaced as well as the probability of vesting.
22.5% vesting of the LTIP awards.
Full vesting 100% of award above for good leavers would apply albeit with performance The Committee has the discretion to determine the type of equivalent to 200% of base salary.
tested over the shortened performance period, and early replacement award cash, shares, the vesting period and whether Notes: vesting if appropriate.
or not performance conditions apply.
Where possible this will be accommodated under the Companys existing incentive plans, Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000. but it may be necessary to utilise the exemption under rule 9.4.
2 Share price growth on vesting and any dividends payable on vesting shares have been ignored.
Shareholders will be informed of any such Non-taxable benefits life assurance are excluded.
payments in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Other Directors are: Damian Wisniewski, Paul Williams, Nigel George and David Silverman, whose salary, annual bonus and LTIP arrangements for 2018 are identical.
The benefit value for the other Directors is based on the highest benefit received in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
