Directors Remuneration Report Our proposed remuneration policy provides alignment to our strategy to be famous for quality, and provide mediumand long-term strategy for shareholders.
Dear Shareholder, For 2018, we have decided that certain quality performance targets will I am pleased to present the Directors constitute a hurdle underpin for the Remuneration Report for 2017.
This years payment of any bonuses.
This applies report also includes a slightly updated across the entire management of the Remuneration Policy.
The previous Company from Chief Executive Officer to Remuneration Policy received strong senior leadership teams in hospitals and support when last approved at the 2015 demonstrates our commitment to quality.
Shareholder approval for a new policy will need to Board changes during the year be sought at this years annual general In October 2017, Justin Ash joined the meeting under the three-year renewal business as our new Chief Executive cycle set out under the UK voting regime.
Justin has a proven track record in Further detail regarding the policy healthcare and the Board was delighted to renewal is set out below.
Justin did not participate in any of the Companys Alignment between pay and performance Tony Bourne, incentive arrangements in respect of 2017.
While the Company has made positive Committee Chair For 2018, the structure of his incentive progress in a number of strategic areas, arrangements and the maximum trading conditions for Spire Healthcare opportunity will be aligned with the remained challenging during 2017. existing package for Executive Directors, The Companys performance showed save that the level of bonus deferral into further growth in our key private patient shares will be increased from one-third income and reasonable progress on to one-half of any bonus earned.
The our three new major capital investment Committee has made this change in order projects.
Operating profit was significantly to increase alignment with our shareholders.
impacted by exceptional and other material In addition, shareholders will note items totalling 49.2 million for the year that no buy-out awards were made and was lower than the range targeted to Justin on his appointment to the role.
Prior to Justins appointment, the Board Taking into account the Groups had to respond to certain unplanned and performance, the Committee has unfortunate circumstances.
Firstly, it was determined that no bonus will be paid with great sadness that we reported that to any of our Executive Directors for 2017.
Andrew White passed away following In addition the LTIP award that was based a period of illness.
In his time with the on performance over the three years Company, Andrew made a significant to 31 December 2017 will lapse in full as contribution to the business and it was threshold performance was not achieved.
our plan for Andrew to play a pivotal role While these incentive outcomes are in the future direction of Spire.
Andrew disappointing, they demonstrate the rigour is deeply missed by all of us.
of our approach to pay and our desire to Secondly, during the year Garry Watts align remuneration with both business stepped down from the role of Executive performance and shareholder returns.
Chairman, to resume his previous nonAs we look ahead, the Board is excited executive Chairman role while he by the new strategy put forward by the underwent medical treatment.
We are optimistic that of this, Simon Gordon agreed to undertake successful execution of this strategy will the role of interim Chief Executive Officer lead to long-term value for our shareholders until Justin joined the business.
and that this will be positively reflected in future incentive outcomes.
78 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Further details regarding the remuneration Remuneration Committee at a glance decisions taken in respect of each of the above are set out in the main body of 2017 highlights the report.
The Committee began the process to review the Companys Remuneration Policy which will be presented to shareholders for approval in 2018.
Annual evaluation of the Committee The annual evaluation of the Committees Agreed new and revised remuneration arrangements for the Companys performance was carried out in November Executive Directors.
2017 which confirmed that it continued Committee membership and meeting attendance to perform effectively.
The Remuneration Committee members at the end of 2017 and the number of Committee meetings they each attended during the year are as follows the maximum AGM and Remuneration Policy renewal number of meetings that the member could have attended is shown in brackets : The current remuneration policy was Committee Committee meetings approved by shareholders at the 2015 Member member since Position in Company attended in 2017 annual general meeting, and at the time Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent 6 6 of adoption this policy received support Committee Chair Non-Executive Director from more than 99% of shareholders.
Adle Anderson August 2016 Independent 6 6 This policy was relatively simple and Non-Executive Director straightforward in nature with Executive Peter Bamford May 2017 Deputy Chairman and 3 3 Directors participating in an annual bonus Senior Independent Director which was partly deferred into shares and a share-based long-term incentive Committee members biographies are shown on pages 56 and 57.
John Gildersleeve plan subject to performance targets also served as a member of the Remuneration Committee until 26 May 2017 when he assessed over three years.
resigned as a Director of the Company.
Shareholders will note that the key terms The Remuneration Committee must have at least three members, all of whom must of the previous policy have been largely be independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Board appoints the Committees Chair.
If a member is unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to retained and that maximum incentive discuss any agenda items with the Committees Chair.
The only structural change proposed is The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, acts as secretary for future LTIP awards to be subject to to the Committee.
Role and responsibilities This change will increase alignment with The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority from the Board to determine the long-term shareholder experience the framework and total remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and, and more closely conforms with recent in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, senior management.
It also oversees developments in best practice.
the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
In practice, the Committee agrees the: While the overall structure of remuneration policy for cash remuneration, executive share plans, service contracts and for 2018 will remain substantially termination arrangements: reward packages of Executive Directors: unchanged from prior years, during the termination arrangements for Executive Directors: year the Remuneration Committee intends recommendations to the Board concerning any new executive share plans to undertake an in-depth, holistic review or changes to existing schemes which require shareholders approval: of our arrangements to ensure that they basis on which awards are granted and their amount to Executive Directors remain aligned with our long-term strategy and senior management under the LTIP: and and shareholders interests.
As in prior ensures a consistency of remuneration arrangements across all levels within years we would seek to engage with Spire Healthcare.
shareholders regarding the outcomes of this review.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com We remain committed to having an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on remuneration.
If you have any questions about the content of this years Directors Remuneration Report you may contact me via companysecretary@spirehealthcare.
The Remuneration Committee looks forward to your continued support at the 2018 annual general meeting.
Tony Bourne Chair, Remuneration Committee 1 March 2018 79 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration Policy Report The following section sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy that will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the annual general meeting in May 2018.
If approved, it will be effective from this date.
The current policy was approved by shareholders in 2015, and therefore a new policy is being presented to shareholders under the standard three-year renewal cycle.
The key features of the current policy have been retained and remain unchanged under the new policy.
The current policy received strong shareholder support and the Remuneration Committee is of the view that the structure continues to be aligned with prevailing market and best practice.
As part of the renewal process the Committee has taken the opportunity to make minor updates to certain detailed aspects of the policy e. g. remove references to legacy arrangements and to reflect developments in market and best practice over the last three years, in particular, the addition of a holding period for future LTIP awards.
Remuneration Policy table Fixed remuneration Purpose and link Performance Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity measures Salary To provide fixed The Committee takes into account a While there is no defined maximum None remuneration that number of factors when setting salaries, opportunity, salary increases normally take is appropriate for including: into account increases for full-time employees the role and to scope and responsibility of the role: across the Group.
secure and retain the skills and experience of the individual: The Committee retains discretion to make the talent required salary levels for similar roles within higher increases in certain circumstances, by the Group.
appropriate comparators: for example, following an increase in the overall structure of the remuneration scope and or responsibility of the role, or a package: and significant change in market practice or the pay and conditions elsewhere in development of the individual in the role.
Current salary: Salaries are normally reviewed annually.
Justin Ash: 615,000 from 30 October 2017 Benefits Fixed element of A range of role-appropriate benefits Whilst no maximum limit exists, individual None remuneration may be provided to Executive Directors, benefit arrangements take into account providing market including such items as private medical a number of factors, including market competitive cover for the Executive Director and practice for comparable roles within benefits to both their family, participation in an income appropriate pay comparators.
support retention protection scheme, life assurance, Participation in any HMRC-approved and recruit people an annual health assessment for the all-employee share plan is subject to of the necessary Executive Director and their spouse the maximum permitted by the relevant calibre.
Additional benefits may also be provided where the Committee considers this appropriate e. g. on relocation.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company from time-to-time on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
The Committee keeps the benefits package offered to existing and new Executive Directors under review.
Retirement Fixed element Executive Directors can opt to join the The maximum level of retirement benefits is None benefits of remuneration Companys defined contribution scheme, 25% of base salary, and the current provision to assist with receive a contribution into a personal for the Executive Directors is 18% of base salary.
retirement pension scheme, take a cash supplement They are set by taking into account a number of planning.
or any combination of the three.
factors, including market practice for comparable Retirement benefits The employer defined contribution level, roles at appropriate pay comparators.
are provided to the contribution into a personal pension For new Executive Directors, the nature and both support scheme and or cash supplement are value of any retirement benefits provided retention and kept under review by the Committee.
will be, in the Committees view, reasonable in recruit people of The retirement benefits are not included the context of market practice for comparable the necessary in calculating bonus and long-term roles and take account of both the individuals calibre.
circumstances and the cost to the Group.
80 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Variable remuneration Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual To incentivise Objectives are set annually Maximum award Awards are based on a combination bonus and reward the to ensure that they remain targeted opportunity for of financial, operational and achievement of and focused on the delivery of Executive Directors individual goals measured over annual financial, strategic goals.
is 150% of base salary one financial year.
operational and for each financial year, The Committee sets targets that At least 50% of the award will individual objectives a portion of which is require appropriate levels of be assessed against the Groups that are key to the normally deferred into performance, taking into account financial metrics.
The remainder delivery of the an award of shares internal and external expectations of the award will be based on Groups strategy.
performance against strategic objectives and or individual As soon as practicable after the year objectives.
end, the Committee meets to review performance against objectives A sliding scale between 0% and and determines payout levels.
The 100% of the maximum award Committee may adjust payments pays out for achievement between to ensure they are reflective of the minimum and maximum overall performance.
A portion of any bonus as determined For annual bonuses in respect of by the Committee is normally 2018, the targets will be based on deferred into an award of shares profit and certain strategic metrics.
under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
Further details are set out in the Currently at least one-third of any Annual Report on Remuneration.
bonus is deferred for a period of three The details of measures, targets years with the Chief Executive Officer and weightings may be varied by deferring one-half of any bonus.
the Committee year-on-year based DBP awards may be in the form of on the Groups strategic priorities.
conditional share awards or nil-cost options or any other form allowed by the Plan rules.
This deferred bonus element is not normally subject to any further performance conditions, although it is subject to continued employment.
Further details of the malus and clawback provisions applicable are set out on page 82.
Long Term To incentivise and Awards granted under the LTIP The maximum award Vesting of awards will be dependent Incentive reward the delivery vest subject to achievement opportunity at grant on a range of financial, operational Plan LTIP of long-term of performance conditions measured for Executive Directors or share price measures, as set by the strategic objectives.
over a period of at least three years, in respect of a Committee, which are aligned with unless the Committee determines financial year is 200% the long-term strategic objectives To align the interests otherwise.
of the Group and shareholder of the Executive value creation.
Directors with those The Committee will review of shareholders.
performance against the targets Not less than 30% of an award will set to determine the level of vesting.
be based on share price measures.
To assist recruitment The Committee may adjust vesting The remainder will be based on either and retention of outcomes to ensure that they are financial and or operational measures.
At the threshold performance, Awards may be in the form of no more than 25% of the award conditional share awards or nil-cost will vest, rising to 100% for options or any other form allowed maximum performance.
For awards granted in 2018, Further details of the malus and vesting will be based on EPS 35%, clawback provisions applicable relative TSR 35% and Operational are set out on page 82.
Awards granted in 2018 and future The details of measures, targets years will normally be subject to and weightings may be varied by a two-year holding period.
the Committee prior to grant based on the Groups strategic objectives.
81 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Notes to the policy table performance Recovery provisions Salary and benefits including any measures and targets malus and clawback retirement benefits will be determined Annual bonus Prior to vesting, the Committee may in accordance with the policy table above.
The annual bonus performance measures cancel or reduce the number of shares In certain instances, the Committee may are designed to provide an appropriate subject to, or impose additional conditions decide to appoint an Executive Director balance between incentivising Executive on LTIP and DBP awards in circumstances to the Board on a lower-than-typical Directors to meet financial targets for where the Committee considers it to be salary, with the intention of gradually the year and to deliver specific strategic, appropriate malus.
Such circumstances increasing the salary to move closer to operational and personal goals.
This may include: a serious misstatement the market level as they build experience balance allows the Committee to review of the Groups audited financial results: in the role.
Normally, benefits will be the Groups performance in the round a serious miscalculation of any relevant limited to those outlined in the policy against the key elements of our strategy, performance measure: a serious failure table above, including a relocation and appropriately incentivise and reward of risk management or regulatory allowance in certain circumstances.
compliance by a relevant entity: serious The maximum level of variable pay reputational damage to the Group: or Bonus targets are set by the Committee excluding any buyouts that may be the participants material misconduct.
each year to ensure that Executive awarded to a new Executive Director will Directors are focused on the key financial In addition, for cash bonus and LTIP be limited to 350% of base salary, which and strategic objectives for the financial awards the Committee may also apply is consistent with the policy table above.
In doing so, the Committee usually malus and or claw back in certain extreme Incentives will normally be granted takes into account a number of internal circumstances including those listed under the existing plans: however, where and external reference points, including above for up to two years following appropriate, the Committee may tailor the the Groups business plan.
the determination of the relevant award e. g. time frame, form, performance performance outcome.
criteria based on the commercial Long Term Incentive Plan circumstances.
The Committee believes it is important Prior to applying malus or clawback, that the performance conditions applying the Committee will take into account The Committee may buy out to LTIP awards support the long-term all relevant factors including, where remuneration terms a new hire has had ambitions of the Group and the creation a serious failure of risk management to forfeit on joining the Group.
The Committee or regulatory compliance or serious awards are intended to be of comparable continues to consider that EPS and relative reputational damage has occurred, the commercial value, and capped accordingly.
TSR metrics remain appropriate measures degree of involvement of the employee The Committee will take into account of long-term performance.
Since 2017 in that failure or damage in question all relevant factors when determining awards have included Operational and the employees level of responsibility the quantum and form structure of Excellence metrics to provide qualitative in deciding whether, and to what extent, any buyout, including any performance measures which are strategically it is reasonable to operate malus and or conditions attached to any forfeited important given the highly regulated clawback.
The Committee is satisfied awards, the likelihood of those conditions and quality sensitive nature of the that the above provisions provide robust being met, and the proportion of the healthcare sector.
safeguards against inappropriate payment vesting performance period remaining.
The Committee will keep the measures The service contracts for new and weightings under review to ensure appointments will be consistent with Recruitment policy that the most appropriate measures to the policy described below.
Where an In determining remuneration for new incentivise the long-term success of the Executive Director is appointed from Executive Directors, the Committee will Group are used.
within the organisation, the policy of the consider all relevant factors, including the Group is that any legacy arrangements calibre of the individual and the external would be honoured in line with the market, while aiming not to pay more original terms and conditions.
Similarly, than is necessary to secure the required if an executive is appointed following talent.
The Committee would seek to an acquisition of, or merger with, another act in what it considers to be the best company, legacy terms and conditions interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Normally, the Committee will seek to align the new Executive Directors remuneration package to the Remuneration Policy, as set out above.
82 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Illustration of the remuneration policy The remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets aligned with the Groups objectives, and on delivering shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The chart below provides illustrative values of the annual remuneration package for the Chief Executive Officer in 2018 under three assumed performance scenarios.
This chart is for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
In accordance with the disclosure regulations, share awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumptions.
Assumed Chief Executive Officer Justin Ash performance Assumptions 3,000k 2,899k Fixed All Consists of total fixed pay, Pay Performance including base salary, benefits Scenarios and retirement benefits.
2,500k 26% Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2018.
Benefits based on 2017 2,000k 1,822k values annualised.
21% Retirement benefits 18% 1,500k of 2018 salary 41% 11% Variable Minimum No pay-out under the 1,000k Pay Performance annual bonus.
17% 746k No vesting under the LTIP.
8% 42% 500k Mid-point 50% of the maximum pay-out 100% 34% under the annual bonus.
This represents 75% of base salary.
0k A portion of the bonus is deferred Minimum Mid-point Maximum Performance Performance into shares under the DBP.
This Salary benefits Cash bonus Deferred shares LTIP represents 100% of base salary.
Maximum 100% of the maximum pay-out Performance under the annual bonus.
This represents 150% of base salary for both Executive Directors.
A portion of the bonus is deferred into shares under the DBP.
This represents 200% of base salary.
83 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Executive Director service contracts and payments for loss of office The key employment terms and other conditions of the current Executive Directors are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by either the Group or the Executive Director.
This is also the policy for new recruits.
Benefits The Group may agree that certain benefits will be specified within the Executive Directors service contracts.
The current Executive Directors are contractually entitled to private medical cover for the Executive Director and his family, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment for the Executive Director and their spouse and a car allowance.
Termination The Group may terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice PILON equivalent to i 12 months payment base salary, and ii the cost of specific benefits including retirement benefits.
Upon termination by the Group, the Group can determine whether a PILON is made as a single lump sum or paid in instalments, subject to mitigation.
Where the sum is paid in instalments, the Executive Director has a duty to use reasonable endeavours to secure alternative employment as soon as reasonably practicable.
In the event the Executive Director commences alternative employment with a salary above a fide minimus level, there will be a pro rata reduction in the PILON payments.
Immediate The service contract of an Executive Director may also be terminated immediately and with no liability to make payment termination in certain circumstances, such as the Executive Director bringing the Group into disrepute or committing a fundamental breach of their employment obligations.
External Executive Directors may accept one position as a non-executive director of another publicly listed company that is appointments not a competitor of the Group, subject to prior approval of the Board.
External appointments to any other company and treatment of any fees are also subject to the prior approval of the Board.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Group and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans in which they participate.
Where appropriate, the Company may also make a payment in respect of outplacement costs, legal fees and the cost of settling any potential claims.
Where an Executive Directors employment with the Group ceases prior to the payment of the annual bonus in respect of a financial year, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine whether any bonus should be paid and the extent to which deferral into shares should be applied.
Any awards would normally be prorated.
Malus and clawback provisions will also apply.
For the avoidance of doubt, in the event the Executive Director is dismissed for misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
The treatment of share awards made by the Company is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which Executive Directors may currently hold awards.
Leaver reasons where awards Plan may continue to vest Vesting arrangements Deferred Bonus Plan Death LTIP awards will vest to the extent determined by the Committee, which, unless DBP and LTIP the Committee determines otherwise, will be calculated on the basis of the Injury, ill health or achievement of any performance conditions at the relevant vesting date and, disability unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed Retirement between grant and cessation of employment directorship.
The transfer of the The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original vesting date, although individuals employing the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest upon cessation company or business of employment.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, LTIP awards will out of the Group normally continue to be subject to any holding period which applies to an award.
Any other scenario in DBP awards will normally vest in full on the original vesting date, although which the Committee the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest earlier.
determines good leaver DBP and LTIP awards will continue to be subject to the malus provisions outlined treatment is justified on page 82 until the vesting of the awards.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 onwards are subject to a clawback provision, as described above.
Any other reason Awards lapse in full.
Where Executive Directors participate in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plans, the leaver treatment will be consistent with the relevant legislation and on the same terms as all other employees.
84 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Group seeks to appoint Non-Executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge and or specific technical skills to support the current expertise of the Board and to match the healthcare sector within which the Group operates.
In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Chairman and or Non-Executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table below.
Remuneration of independent Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee.
Directors are not involved in any decisions in relation to their own remuneration.
The table below sets out the remuneration policy with respect to Non-Executive Directors.
Fees to Non-Executive Directors will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Groups bonus arrangements, share incentive schemes or retirement benefit plans.
Approach to setting remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Opportunity Fees are set at appropriate levels to ensure Non-Executive The total fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain within Directors are paid to reflect the individual responsibility the limit stated in the Articles of Association of the Company.
taken, as well as the skills and experience of the individual.
Individual fees reflect responsibility and time commitment, as well Fees are reviewed periodically.
as the skills and experience of the individual.
Additional fees may be When setting fee levels, consideration is given to a number paid for further responsibilities, such as chairmanship of committees.
of factors, including responsibilities and market positioning.
Any benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and Where appropriate, benefits to the role may be provided.
take account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided to Travel and other reasonable expenses including fees comparable roles.
Expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of incurred in obtaining professional advice in the furtherance the role may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Group, as appropriate, of their duties and any associated taxes incurred in the including any tax due on the benefits.
Non-Executive Directors will also course of performing their duties may be paid by the be covered by the Groups indemnity insurance.
Group or reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
The fees as at 31 December 2017 were: Non-Executive Chairman: 295,000: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director: 140,000: independent Non-Executive Director basic: 55,000: non-independent Non-Executive Director basic: 50,000: Chair of Audit and Risk Committee: 10,000: Chair of Remuneration Committee: 10,000: and Chair of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee: 15,000.
Under the terms of his appointment, Garry Watts is entitled to private medical cover for both himself and his spouse and any dependent children, life assurance, annual health assessment for both himself and his spouse and office facilities to perform his duties as Chairman.
Medical expenses insurance and life assurance will be provided under the Groups arrangements or, if he obtains equivalent benefits directly, the Group will meet his costs up to a specified cap.
Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Group or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below.
This is the policy for current and any new Non-Executive Directors.
Provision Policy Period In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all independent Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each annual general meeting.
After the initial three-year term, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Termination The appointment of the Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving 12 months notice.
The appointment of the Deputy Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving three months notice.
The appointment of any independent Non-Executive Director is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving two months notice.
The Non-Executive Director nominated by Mediclinic International PLC or any other shareholder representative is pursuant to the terms of any relationship agreement and is currently terminable without notice.
85 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Further detailed provisions The DBP and LTIP will be operated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the relevant plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off corporate events, such as a change in the Groups capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
The performance conditions applicable to incentive awards may be amended on an appropriate basis determined by the Committee, if an event occurs or circumstances arise that cause the Committee to consider the performance condition is no longer a fair measure of performance.
Under the DBP and LTIP, participants may receive an additional amount, in cash or shares, to take account of the value of dividends the participant would have received on the shares that vest.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, LTIP awards may vest to the extent that the Committee determines, taking into account the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied, and such other factors as the Committee considers relevant in the circumstances, provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, awards will be adjusted to reflect the period of time that has elapsed between grant and cessation of employment directorship: DBP awards will normally vest in full.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The Committee may make any remuneration payments including vesting of incentives and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were either agreed: i prior to the implementation of the policy approved in 2014: ii during the term of, and were consistent with, any previous policy approved by shareholders: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
The DBP and LTIP incorporate dilution limits.
These limits are 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling 10-year period for executive share plans.
Shares issued out of treasury will count towards these limits for so long as this is required under institutional shareholder guidelines.
Shares issued, or to be issued, pursuant to any awards granted on or before the date of Admission will not count towards these limits.
In addition, awards that lapse shall be disregarded for the purposes of these limits.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The Policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration across the Group.
When making decisions in respect of the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions for employees throughout the Group.
As stated in the policy table, salary increases are, in practice, normally aligned to the general employee population.
The Committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for all employees The remuneration of the wider employee population is based on the same reward philosophy, whilst the components of remuneration vary with seniority.
All employees, including Executive Directors, receive a salary and role-appropriate benefits.
Role-specific annual bonus arrangements are operated across the Group.
Only senior individuals who can have significant influence on the performance of the Group as a whole are invited to participate in the long-term incentive plans.
This provides those individuals with an incentive to help achieve the Groups mediumand long-term objectives and create shareholder value, whilst ensuring their remuneration varies to the extent these goals are achieved.
Consideration of shareholder views The structure of remuneration for Board members was first presented to shareholders in the Prospectus prior to Admission.
Since Admission, we have regularly engaged with shareholders regarding our approach to remuneration and we remain mindful of shareholders views and emerging market and best practice when evaluating and setting future remuneration strategy.
This Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
86 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors audited The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This comprises the total remuneration received over the full year from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
2 Simon Gordon stepped down from the Board on 1 March 2018.
3 Andrew White sadly passed away and ceased to be an Executive Director on 22 July 2017.
4 T he 2015 LTIP award is based on performance to 31 December 2017: as noted below this award will lapse in full and therefore no value is shown for 2017.
5 In line with the disclosure regulations, the LTIP value for 2016 has been restated to reflect the share price on 20 March 2017, being the date of vesting 333.5 pence.
The restated amount includes a cash dividend equivalent payment of 8,440.
On 30 March 2017, Simon Gordon exercised his 2014 LTIP award over 124,113 shares, selling 58,539 shares at an average price of 327.5 pence to cover tax and NIC due.
6 T hese awards were granted in 2014 and were granted in respect of performance prior to Admission.
There are no further outstanding awards under this plan.
Details of awards vesting in 2016 were set out in last years Remuneration Report.
Additional notes to the table Salary Justin Ashs salary on appointment was 615,000 per annum.
Simon Gordons salary was increased from 367,500 to 373,013 per annum on 1 April 2017.
In June 2017, Garry Watts stepped down from his role as Executive Chairman, and Simon Gordon was appointed Interim Chief Executive.
To reflect this role change and his expanded duties over the coming months, the Committee determined that Simon Gordon would be paid an interim salary supplement of 12,666 per month equivalent to a total salary of 525,000 per annum for a period of six months.
This arrangement came to an end on 12 December 2017.
Benefits The benefits consist of private medical cover for the Executive Directors and their families, life assurance and income protection cover.
Simon Gordon also receives a car allowance.
Retirement benefits The amount set out in the table represents the Group contribution to the Executive Directors retirement planning at a rate of 18% of base salary.
Simon Gordon is a member of the Spire Healthcare Pension Plan.
Amounts above the HMRC annual allowance are paid as taxable cash supplements.
Annual bonus For the 2017 financial year, the maximum bonus opportunity for Simon Gordon was 150% of base salary.
The annual bonus targets were set at the beginning of the financial year, with 70% of the award being assessed against EBITDA and 30% assessed against a balanced scorecard based on strategic targets including productivity, customer, quality and staff measures.
The threshold EBITDA target for 2017 was set at 160.0 million and no bonus would be payable if this threshold was not achieved.
Once again the Company made progress in a number of areas, however, a number of internal and external factors impacted the business.
This meant that it did not achieve the minimum EBITDA threshold of 160.0 million.
Although Simon Gordon largely met his individual objectives under the balanced scorecard, the Committee determined that no bonus will be paid in respect of 2017.
The Committee note the importance of enabling our shareholders to understand the basis of bonus outcomes and the Company will therefore seek to provide expanded disclosure in respect of any bonuses paid in future years.
Justin Ash was not eligible for a bonus in respect of 2017.
87 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The performance period for awards granted in 2015 ended on 31 December 2017.
This award was based on targets linked to EPS and relative TSR performance.
Half of the award was based on TSR performance measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Over the period to 31 December 2017, the Company delivered negative total shareholder return which was below the median position and therefore threshold vesting was not achieved.
This meant that none of this element of the award would vest.
The remaining half of the award was based on EPS targets.
The 2017 EPS was below the threshold of 23.8 pence.
Therefore this award will lapse in full.
Awards under the LTIP were granted on 30 March 2017.
These awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options over Spire Healthcare Group plc shares, with the number of shares that may vest conditional on performance over the three-year period to 31 December 2019.
The maximum award granted to Executive Directors was equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Justin Ash and Garry Watts did not receive LTIP awards in 2017.
The Committee determined that in addition to the value created for shareholders over the period, measured by EPS and relative TSR performance targets, 2017 awards should also include an element based on Operational Excellence.
Further details of the performance conditions applying to the 2017 awards are set out below.
LTIP Conditional award over shares were made in 2017 equivalent to 200% of base salary in the form of nil-cost options.
Performance will be measured over the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019.
25% vests 100% vests 1 TSR v FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 35% Median Upper quartile 0% vests 25% vests 50% vests 100% vests 1 Adjusted EPS outcome for 2020 35% 18.5p 20.5p 21.8p 23.2p Operational Excellence: 85% achieve 90% achieve 100% achieve Good or Good or Good or 2 1 Regulatory Rating 15% n a above above above 1 Net Promotor Score 15% 82 83 84 85 1 T here is no vesting for performance below these levels.
2 Vesting for this element would be scaled back including to nil if any site is rated as Inadequate.
3 There is straight line vesting between the points shown.
4 T he Committee may adjust targets or outcomes in certain circumstances e. g. for changes to accounting standards or material acquisitions.
In line with good practice, the Committee also retains the ability to exercise discretion so that the overall vesting level remains appropriate e. g to reflect underlying performance.
Outstanding share awards Under the DBP, awards are deferred for a period of three years and are conditional on continued employment.
There are no further performance conditions attaching to these shares although they remain subject to a malus provision.
No award was made under the DBP in 2016 or 2017.
The following award over shares was granted under the DBP in 2015 and relates to the 2014 bonus which was disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts: Type of award Date of award Shares awarded Shares exercisable 1 Simon Gordon Conditional Share Award 1 June 2015 10,922 1 June 2018 to 1 June 2025 in the form of nil-cost options 1 The share price used to determine the number of deferred shares subject to award was 3.606, the mid-market closing share price on 29 May 2015.
The following table provides details of all outstanding awards, as at 31 December 2017, made to Executive Directors under the LTIP: Number of Face value End of 1 Type of award Date of grant shares Share price at grant performance period Simon Gordon 1 April 2015 193,905 3.610 700,000 31 December 2017 Conditional Share Award in the form 30 March 2016 197,628 3.542 700,000 31 December 2018 of nil-cost options 30 March 2017 223,146 3.294 735,000 31 December 2019 1 T he share price used to determine the number of shares under each award is based on the average of the mid-market quotation at close of business over the last five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
The face values at grant are equivalent to 200% of base salary.
2015 and 2016 awards are subject to EPS and relative TSR performance conditions.
The 2017 award is subject to EPS, relative TSR performance and Operational Excellence conditions.
2 As noted above, the 2015 Award will lapse in full.
88 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Andrew Whites estate Andrew White sadly passed away and ceased to be an Executive Director on 22 July 2017.
Andrew received an LTIP award over 221,628 shares on 30 March 2017.
As announced to the market in August 2017, the Remuneration Committee agreed that Andrew Whites estate would receive: cash bonus award for 2017 of 136,875.
The bonus payment was pro-rated by 50% in respect of the first six months of the year before Andrew White commenced sick leave on 30 June 2017 and was further pro-rated by 50%, being the proportion of bonus maximum that would accrue for on-target AOP performance: and vesting of a total of 134,339 shares c. 32% of maximum in respect of the 2016 and 2017 LTIP awards to the date of Andrew Whites death as allowed for in the LTIP rules.
Each award was pro-rated for time worked by Andrew White during the performance periods, i. e. up to 22 July 2017 and all performance metrics associated with each award were waived.
Single total figure of remuneration Non-Executive Directors audited The basic fee for independent Non-Executive Directors was increased from 50,000 to 55,000 per annum from 1 April 2017.
This was the first increase in Non-Executive Directors fees since Admission.
The fee for the chair of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee was also increased from 10,000 to 15,000 per annum from 1 April 2017.
The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Total remuneration 5 000 Fees Benefits 2017 2016 Adle Anderson 63.8 1.3 65.1 25.6 1 Peter Bamford 89.9 4.6 94.5 Tony Bourne 63.8 1.3 65.1 60.0 2 John Gildersleeve 62.5 62.5 150.0 Dame Janet Husband 67.5 11.8 79.3 60.0 3 Robert Lerwill 30.0 4 Danie Meintjes 50.0 50.0 50.0 Simon Rowlands 50.0 50.0 50.0 Total 447.5 19.0 466.5 425.6 1 Peter Bamford was appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director and chair of the Companys Nomination Committee on 26 May 2017.
2 John Gildersleeve stepped down as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director on 26 May 2017.
3 Robert Lerwill stepped down as an independent Non-Executive Director on 27 June 2016.
4 As a Non-Executive Director nominated by the principal shareholder, Danie Meintjess fees are paid to a subsidiary company within the Mediclinic International PLC group.
5 R easonable expenses incurred by any Non-Executive Director will be reimbursed by the Company but they have no other contractual entitlement to benefits.
For Non-Executive Directors certain expenses relating to the performance of a Non-Executive Directors duties in carrying out activities, such as travel to and from Company meetings, are classified as taxable benefits by HMRC.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Non-Executive Director is not out of pocket by settling the related tax via the PAYE Settlement Agreement.
In line with current regulations these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the taxable benefits column in the Directors remuneration table above.
The figures shown include the cost of the expenses grossed up for tax and national insurance.
89 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Single total figure of remuneration Chairman audited 1 1 Garry Watts Garry Watts 1 1 as NonGarry Watts Garry Watts as NonExecutive as Executive as Executive Executive Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman 000 Jun 17 Dec 17 Jan 17 Jun 17 Mar 16 Dec 16 Jan 16 Mar 16 Salary fees 223.8 300.0 479.0 51.8 Benefits 3.0 2.7 2.4 0.5 Retirement benefits Annual bonus Long-term incentives Sub-total 226.8 302.7 481.4 52.3 2 Legacy arrangement Directors Share Bonus Plan Award 233.2 Total 226.8 302.7 714.6 52.3 1 G arry Watts resumed his previous role of Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2017.
He remained on a salary of 600,00 per annum until 30 September 2017 when it became 295,000 per annum.
Between 14 March 2016 and 30 June 2017 he acted in the capacity of Executive Chairman.
2 T hese awards were granted in 2014 and were granted in respect of performance prior to Admission.
Notes to the table On Admission, Garry Watts was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman and, in line with corporate governance guidelines, in that role he did not participate in any future incentive plans.
On 14 March 2016, Garry Watts resumed the role of Executive Chairman, following Rob Rogers notification to leave the Company.
Garry Watts received an annual salary of 600,000 for that role, but did not receive any pension allowance or LTIP awards.
Although Garry Watts was eligible for a bonus in respect of his executive role, no bonus will be paid for 2017, in line with other Executive Directors.
On 1 July 2017, Garry Watts resumed the role of Non-Executive Chairman.
Since 1 October 2017 he received a fee of 295,000 per annum for this role.
Garry Watts has a contractual entitlement to benefits, which include: private medical cover for himself and his family: life cover for himself only: annual health assessment for himself and his spouse: and office facilities to enable him to perform his duties as Executive Chairman.
Reasonable expenses incurred will be reimbursed by the Company.
90 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Implementation for 2018 The following table summarises how remuneration arrangements will be operated for 2018.
Shareholders will note that, for the fourth year, the maximum opportunity under the incentive plans will also remain unchanged.
Salary and Following the year end, the Committee reviewed the base salaries as part of the annual salary review process.
benefits Justin Ashs salary will remain unchanged for 2018 at 615,000.
No changes to benefits for 2018 benefits include private medical cover, permanent health assurance, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment and car allowance.
Company contributions retirement benefits remain at 18% of salary.
Annual bonus The maximum opportunity will remain at 150% of salary.
The performance targets in respect of the 2018 bonus will be based as to 75% on EBITDA and 25% on operational objectives.
No bonus will be paid unless a minimum quality trigger or Group earnings targets are met.
The detail of targets for the coming year is commercially sensitive: however, the Committee will look to provide disclosure regarding targets and bonus outcomes in next years report.
For the Chief Executive Officer, one half of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years.
LTIP Conditional award over shares will be made in 2018 equivalent to 200% of base salary in the form of nil-cost options.
Performance will be measured over the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020.
The 2018 award will continue to include an element based on Operational Excellence.
The Remuneration Committee have reviewed the targets for the performance period to ensure that they suitably reflect both internal and external expectations over the performance period.
The Committee are satisfied that the target ranges for the 2018 awards are suitably stretching in the context of current expectations and that the hurdles at the top-end of the range would suitably justify full vesting.
The Committee have made some minor refinements to the Operational Excellence measures, while maintaining the stretch of targets.
25% vests 100% vests 1 TSR v FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 35% Median Upper quartile 0% vests 25% vests 50% vests 100% vests 1 Adjusted EPS outcome for 2020 35% n a 16.5p 17.2p 18.3p Operational Excellence: 85% achieve 90% achieve 100% achieve Good or Good or Good or 2 1 Regulatory Rating 15% n a above above above 3 1 Friends and Family 15% n a 82% 85% 87% 1 There is no vesting for performance below these levels.
2 V esting for this element would be scaled back including to nil if any site is rated as Inadequate.
The target range has been adapted to reflect expected changes in the stringency of the external regulatory review process and the benchmarks required to achieve a Good rating.
The threshold hurdle would continue to require improvement from current levels.
3 The measure of customer satisfaction has been changed to better align with the key measure of performance used in the business.
4 There is straight line vesting between the points shown.
5 T he Committee may adjust targets or outcomes in certain circumstances e. g. for changes to accounting standards or material acquisitions.
Shareholding Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain, over a period of five years, a shareholding equivalent guideline to twice their respective base salaries.
Justin Ash has until 30 October 2022 in order to reach his shareholding requirement.
Non-Executive The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are shown in the following table.
Directors Role Fee per annum Non-Executive Chairman 295,000 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 140,000 Basic fee for independent Non-Executive Directors 55,000 Basic fee for non-independent Non-Executive Director 50,000 Chairs of the Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee 10,000 Chair of the Clinical Governance and Safety Committee 15,000 91 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited The table below sets out the Directors shareholdings in the Company.
As noted above, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a holding equivalent to twice their base salary.
There is no requirement for Non-Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company.
Shareholding Guidelines As at 31 December As at 31 December Proportion of shareholding 1 2017 2016 guideline achieved Non-Executive Chairman Garry Watts 503,577 503,577 Executive Directors 2 Justin Ash 173,600 n a 36% Simon Gordon 537,332 471,758 183% 3 Andrew White n a Non-Executive Directors Adle Anderson 4 Peter Bamford 5,000 Tony Bourne 11,904 11,904 5 John Gildersleeve 125,761 125,761 Dame Janet Husband 10,231 10,231 Danie Meintjes Simon Rowlands 214,516 214,516 1 Calculated based upon the closing share price on 31 December 2017 of 253.6 pence.
2 Justin Ash was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 30 October 2017 and he held 89,100 shares on this date.
3 Andrew White sadly passed away and ceased to be an Executive Director on 22 July 2017 and he did not hold any shares as at this date.
4 Peter Bamford was appointed as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director on 26 May 2017 and he did not hold any shares as at this date.
5 John Gildersleeve stepped down from the Board on 26 May 2017 and his share interests are shown as at this date.
There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2017 and the date of this report.
92 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information The table below sets out the Directors interests in shares of the Company which remain unvested or have vested but are unexercised as at 31 December 2017.
Unvested awards are structured as nil-cost options.
Shares Unvested and subject to Unvested and not subject Vested and not subject to 1 2 performance conditions to performance conditions performance conditions Non-Executive Chairman Garry Watts Executive Directors 3 Justin Ash 0 Simon Gordon 614,679 10,922 4 Andrew White n a n a Non-Executive Directors Adle Anderson Peter Bamford Tony Bourne Dame Janet Husband John Gildersleeve Danie Meintjes Simon Rowlands 1 Consists of awards granted under the LTIP.
2 Consists of shares held through the Deferred Bonus Plan awarded on 1 June 2015 in respect of the bonus paid for the 2014 financial year.
3 Justin Ash was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 30 October 2017.
4 Andrew White sadly passed away and ceased to be an Executive Director on 22 July 2017. Letters of appointment Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Date of expiry Adle Anderson 28 July 2016 2 months No later than 30 June 2019 Peter Bamford 26 May 2017 3 months No later than 30 June 2020 Tony Bourne 24 June 2014 2 months 26 May 2020 Dame Janet Husband 24 June 2014 2 months 26 May 2020 1 Danie Meintjes 20 August 2015 Not applicable 20 August 2018 2 Simon Rowlands 24 June 2014 2 months 23 July 2018 1 P ursuant to the relationship agreement dated 22 June 2015 between the Company and Mediclinic Jersey Limited, under which Mediclinic Jersey Limited is entitled to nominate for appointment to the Board one Non-Executive Director, Danie Meintjes was appointed to the Board on 20 August 2015.
Danie Meintjes is considered to be a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
Mediclinic Jersey Limited has given notice that Danie Meintjes will not stand for re-election at the 2018 annual general meeting.
2 S imon Rowlands appointment was renewed for a further one-year period and a letter of appointment dated 23 July 2017 was issued to him.
Due to the senior position Simon Rowlands previously held with Cinven Partners he is considered to be a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
Service contracts Justin Ash will put himself up for election at the annual general meeting to be held on 24 May 2018.
Executive Directors are employed under ongoing service contracts with the Group.
These contracts do not have a fixed term of appointment.
Copies of their service contracts are available to shareholders at the registered office for inspection.
Following Simon Gordons decision to step down as a Director of Spire Healthcare Group plc on 1 March 2018, he will be leaving the business on 31 March 2018.
His contract of employment is terminable on 12 months notice which the Company intends to pay to him when he leaves the business.
The Company does not intend to make any further cash payments for loss of office.
All arrangements will be consistent with the shareholder approved Remuneration Policy.
93 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Performance graph The graph below illustrates Spire Healthcare Group plcs TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts since Admission on 23 July 2014.
200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 23 July 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 Spire Healthcare Group plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts The table below shows the total remuneration paid in respect of the Chief Executive Officer role.
2017 2016 2015 2014 1,2 1 Chief Executives single figure remuneration 000s 128.2 320.5 1,095.8 6,223.1 Annual bonus payout % of maximum 0% 0% 0% 34% 3 LTIP vesting % of maximum n a n a n a n a 1 2017: Justin Ash was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 30 October 2017.
The value shown for 2017 therefore represents a part-year figure for his time in role.
During 2017: i Garry Watts fulfilled the role of Chief Executive Officer from 14 March 2016 to 12 June 2017 for which he was paid 714.6k: and ii Simon Gordon undertook the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer between 13 June 2017 and 29 October 2017 for which he was paid c. 243k.
2 2016: Rob Roger stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2016.
The value shown for 2016, therefore represents a part-year figure for his time in role.
During 2016, Garry Watts fulfilled the role of Chief Executive Officer from 14 March 2016 to 12 June 2017 for which he was paid 714.6k.
3 Rob Roger and Garry Watts did not have any LTIP awards vesting in respect of 2016: for other participants the LTIP based on performance to 31 December 2016 vested at 50% of maximum.
Similarly, Justin Ash and Garry Watts did not have any LTIP awards vesting in respect of 2017: for other participants including Simon Gordon the LTIP based on performance to 31 December 2017 lapsed in full.
Annual change in remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration based on salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus between 2016 and 2017.
Chief Executive Officer Executive Other Chairman employees 1 % change % change Base salary n a 1.5% Benefits n a -0.6% Annual bonus n a 0% 1 A s noted above, Justin Ash was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 30 October 2017.
Consequently, full year comparable data is not available.
94 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 TSR rebased to 100 on Admission Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in the total remuneration costs for all employees and shareholder distributions.
million 2017 2016 % change Total remuneration 281.7 268.0 5.11 Distributions to shareholders 15.2 14.8 2.70 Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee During the course of the year, Deloitte LLP provided external advice to the Committee and its total fees were 57,950 2016: 19,500.
During 2017, Deloitte LLP also provided other consulting services to the Group.
Deloitte LLP has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting during the year.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provides remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Human Resources Director and Simon Rowlands attended Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide the Committee with additional context.
No individual participates in decisions regarding their own remuneration.
Statement of voting at 2017 annual general meeting The following table sets out the voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Companys 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, put to shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting held on 26 May 2017: Resolution Votes for % of vote Votes against % of vote Votes withheld Approve the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report 323,221,140 99.58% 1,364,890 0.42% 1,088,678 The Directors were pleased with the response received from shareholders to the resolution proposed.
This report on Directors remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the annual general meeting on 24 May 2018.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and was approved at a meeting of the Directors held on 1 March 2018.
The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved at its annual general meeting in 2015 and received 99.56% of the vote in favour from shareholders.
It is next intended that the Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding vote at the annual general meeting on 24 May 2018.
Details of all resolutions passed at the annual general meeting held on 26 May 2017 can be found on page 69.
Share prices The market price of a Spire Healthcare Group plc ordinary share at 31 December 2017 was 253.6 pence and the range during the year was 221.5 pence to 361.0 pence.
Tony Bourne Chair, Remuneration Committee 1 March 2018 95 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
