Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2017, our first report following our admission to the Main Market.
In line with the applicable regulations, this report is presented in two sections: firstly our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy containing our forward looking policy in relation to Directors remuneration: and then our Annual Report on Remuneration which provides details of the amounts earned in respect of the 2017 financial year and how our Policy will be implemented in the 2018 financial year.
Our Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the Our aim is to create a remuneration 2018 AGM and, subject to approval by shareholders, will become framework that is appropriate whilst effective from that date.
Our Annual Report on Remuneration will be supporting our strategic goal to subject to an advisory vote at the develop and implement our world- 2018 AGM.
class North Yorkshire polyhalite How we link executive remuneration toour strategy Project within budget and schedule.
Given the unique nature of our business, we designed our Policy to LORD HUTTON.
CHAIR ensure that it will be appropriate for the UK Premium Listed company environment whilst continuing to support our strategic goal to develop and implement our world-class North Yorkshire polyhalite Project within budget and schedule.
We will emerge as a disruptive, world-leading fertilizer operation and the opportunity to create value for our shareholders is sizeable.
The nature of this opportunity and the focus required to deliver transformational milestones within a clear time frame during a loss-making period were the basis for the Policy for which we are seeking shareholder approval.
73 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT Reflecting the development stage of importance of our strong team Reflecting best practice, our Policy our Project and that the Company is culture and the contribution of the also includes a shareholding still some years from becoming a wider team, the principle of awarding guideline which requires Executive cash flow-generating company, the exceptional LTIP awards for the Directors to build up a shareholding fixed pay for our Managing Director delivery of transformational strategic with a value equal to 200% of salary.
and Chief Executive Officer CEO milestones significantly ahead of plan Alignment with shareholders is further and Finance Director and Chief will also apply to the wider team enhanced by the following which will Financial Officer CFO are positioned eligible to participate in the LTIP.
apply to bonus and long-term at the lower end of the market for FTSE Achieving our transformational incentive awards from 2018 : 250 companies.
Instead, our milestones significantly ahead of plan package is geared towards variable would require outstanding Company the deferral into shares, for two pay, based on the delivery of our performance through consistent years, of any bonus earned in strategic milestones towards first innovation, constant drive and excess of 100% of salary: and production.
This would also an additional holding period for result in significant increased value long-term incentive awards, such Our Policy provides for a maximum being delivered to shareholders.
that vested LTIP awards will only be annual bonus opportunity of up to released to an Executive Director The Remuneration Committee 175% of salary for our CEO and up to prior to the fifth anniversary of the recognises that this exceptionally 150% for our CFO.
In exceptional date of grant so they can dispose strong performance of the Company circumstances, linked to the of the shares acquired if the should also result in a substantial rise achievement of a transformational shareholding guideline has been in our share price as a consequence strategic milestone, the maximum achieved, although sales to cover of this performance.
Although this bonus awarded may be increased up tax would be permitted.
provides a strong alignment between to 200% of salary.
executive reward, Company As at 31 December 2017 Chris Frasers performance and shareholder value We have introduced individual limits shareholding equated to 50 times creation, the Remuneration in our Policy on the level of long-term salary and Thomas Staleys Committee is mindful that there may incentive awards that can be granted shareholding equated to 0.7 times be scenarios where the level of reward each year to our Executive Directors.
is materially greater than envisaged Ordinarily, LTIP awards of up to 200% at the time that the awards are of salary may be granted to our CEO Our performance and incentive granted.
Taking into account the and up to 175% of salary may be outturns in 2017 current executive remuneration granted to our CFO.
Vesting of LTIP As outlined in the Chairmans environment, to mitigate the risk that awards are linked to the delivery of statement on pages 4 to 6, 2017 has the overall maximum remuneration our strategic milestones.
We have been a year of significant progress payable may have the potential of included the ability to grant forour business.
We accomplished being simply too high irrespective of exceptional LTIP awards i. e. an anumber of significant Project outstanding Company performance, additional 300% of salary for the CEO milestones and successfully executed the Remuneration Committee has and CFO so the overall LTIP award a number of key activities that are decided to include an overall total could be up to 500% of salary for the pivotal to the success of this exciting annual remuneration cap of 20 CEO and up to 475% of salary for the Project.
It should be noted that this CFO.
Any exceptional LTIP awards will cap is intended to mitigate the risk of be subject to aspirational stretch Following a robust assessment of the the overall remuneration policy targets.
For the avoidance of doubt, Executive Directors contribution to having unintended consequences there is no intention to grant such the achievement of these strategic and is only likely to be in point due to exceptional awards on an ongoing goals, and measured against the preexceptional share price accretion basis.
set objectives for the Executives, the and if more than one LTIP award Remuneration Committee awarded vested in respect of a milestone being The ability to grant exceptional cash bonuses of 332,500 and achieved and the Companys market awards reflects that we are a unique 250,000 to Chris Fraser and Thomas capitalisation increased from circa business at a critical point in our Staley respectively.
Further detail in 1billion to over 7 billion.
Recognising the relation to the performance achieved 74 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 and the associated bonuses earned transformational impact of a Maximum vesting of the ordinary in respect of 2017 is set out on page 89 successful stage 2 financing.
Further award requires this milestone to to 90.
Shareholders will recognise that details in relation to the annual be achieved by 31 March 2022. the nature and stage of our business bonus performance measures for The exceptional element of the means that setting conventional 2018 are set out on page 96. awards is subject to the delivery financial targets is not appropriate: of this transformational milestone 2018 long-term incentive grants: our bonuses for 2017 and for 2018 significantly ahead of plan with Subject to shareholder approval of are based on the delivery of specific maximum vesting requiring this the Policy, we intend to grant LTIP elements of the Project and substantive milestone to be achieved by awards of up to 500% of salary to progress towards transformational 15 March 2021.
Chris Fraser and up to 475% of milestones on time and within budget, salary for Thomas Staley following We are committed to a responsible which are all lead indicators to the the 2018 AGM.
This reflects the approach to executive pay that success of the business.
significant changes brought about reflects appropriately the unique by commencement of construction No long-term incentives vested in nature of our business and is during 2017, our ambitious goals for respect of performance in 2017. aligned with the next phase of the Project through the next phase development into what will be a of development and the Implementation of our Policy in 2018 disruptive, world-leading fertilizer prospective construction over the operation.
We have consulted with Fixed pay: No base salary next several years of a complex shareholders on the design and increases are proposed for the and large scale project and first implementation of our Policy and Executive Directors for 2018. mining of polyhalite.
This event is have taken into consideration the Pension contributions for our expected to be a seminal and feedback received, which resulted Executive Directors will continue to unique achievement for the in some changes including to our be in line with auto enrolment Company in its lifecycle.
The 2018 approach to bonus deferral, the minimum contribution requirements LTIP grant consists of two elements: inclusion of time frames on LTIP at the level of circa.
1% of salary ordinary grants of 200% of salary for milestones and reduction in the 2% with effect from April 2018 in Chris Fraser and 175% for Thomas proposed total annual line with the wider workforce and Staley, and an exceptional stretch remuneration cap.
award of 300% of salary to continue to engage with our 2018 maximum bonus opportunity: encourage rapid and early shareholders and trust that you will Maximum bonus opportunity of up construction which, we believe, will support the resolutions to be to 175% of salary for Chris Fraser and result in significant additional proposed at the 2018 AGM in up to 150% of salary for Thomas benefits to shareholders, potentially relation to the Directors Staley.
However, the maximum of many hundreds of millions of Remuneration Report.
bonus earned for 2018 may be pounds.
As set out in further detail increased up to 200% of salary if a on page 97, the vesting of the 2018 Lord Hutton successful stage 2 financing is LTIP awards will be based on the Chair of the Remuneration achieved.
This recognises the critical milestone of first polyhalite Committee critical importance and being extracted from the ore body.
Remuneration at a glance 2017 annual bonuses earned of Maximum bonus opportunity for Reflecting best practice a 200% approximately 70% and 76% of 2018 will be up to 175% of salary for of salary shareholding guideline salary based on Chris Frasers and Chris Fraser and up to 150% of salary applies.
Thomas Staleys contribution to the for Thomas Staley.
However, the achievement of significant strategic maximum bonus earned for 2018 LTIP awards granted from 2018 will milestones during the year that are may be increased up to 200% of only be released to an Executive pivotal to the success of the Project salary if a successful stage 2 Director prior to the fifth anniversary see page 89 to 90. financing is achieved.
From 2018, of the date of grant if the bonus awards above 100% of salary shareholding guideline has Salaries for 2018 will not be will be deferred into shares for beenachieved.
To mitigate the risk that the overall Pension contributions for our Exceptional LTIP awards of up to maximum remuneration payable Executive Directors will continue to 500% of salary for Chris Fraser and may have the potential of being be line with the wider workforce at up to 475% of salary for Thomas simply too high, irrespective of circa 1%.
Staley to be granted in 2018 based outstanding Company performance, on the critical milestone of first an overall total remuneration cap of polyhalite being extracted from the 20 million has been incorporated ore body seepage 97. into the Policy.
75 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
