Directors Remuneration Report remain relevant and specific in a volatile economic environment.
Financial targets environment, while still aligned to longfor the ESIP took into account the term performance.
internal budget, the prevailing consensus forecasts for PageGroup performance, 60% of any ESIP award is deferred in to and long-term growth rates.
Very strong shares that vest over three years.
This performance at PageGroup over 2017 as represents an increase in deferral at most set out in the previous section resulted in levels of performance including on target the achievement of the maximum targets performance when compared with the annual bonus and fair value of LTIP awards Steve Ingham, Chief Executive Officer, under the previous policy.
The majority of received 2,053,469 which represents any award is now in shares.
91% of the maximum under the ESIP.
Danuta Gray, Kelvin Stagg, Chief Financial Officer, Additionally, a number of shareholders Committee Chairman received 1,073,800 which represents wanted reassurance on the level of 94.4% of the maximum.
60% of each disclosure that would be provided award will be deferred into shares over ANNUAL STATEMENT on performance metrics, targets and three years.
Full details of the performance assessment, specifically with regard to Dear Shareholder, targets, assessment and outcomes are personal and non-financial measures.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to As can be seen from the disclosures on present the Directors Remuneration Report pages 66 to 68, we are committed to Legacy Long-Term Incentive Plan for the year ended 31 December 2017. providing full and transparent disclosure outcomes for each ESIP award made, including Our remuneration policy The legacy 2015 LTIP vested at the end of disclosure of the targets set and its performance period on 31 December Last year we reviewed and refreshed our narrative outlining the performance and 2017.
The performance metrics for these remuneration policy the Policy following corresponding weighting achieved for awards were cumulative EPS, relative an extensive consultation with shareholders, personal targets and the threshold, target gross profit against peer companies, and shareholder bodies and proxy advisory and stretch performance levels, and the a range of strategic objectives for each firms.
Given the cyclical nature of our outcome for all financial metrics.
Following an assessment of industry and ongoing economic uncertainty 2017 performance performance against each performance following the Brexit vote in the UK, we metric, the CEO received 55.35% of his wanted to ensure that our pay structure Despite some ongoing economic and maximum award and the CFO received continued to encourage long-term decision market uncertainty, PageGroup has 55.98% of his maximum award.
making while also recognising the volatile had a very successful year, significantly environment in which we operate and the outperforming both internal and external Further detail is set out on pages 69 need for flexibility and agile thinking.
Financial performance has and 70. therefore decided to replace our Annual been strong and PBT is 18.2% higher than Total remuneration figure for 2017 Bonus and LTIP with a new Executive in 2016.
The Group has also continued to Single Incentive Plan ESIP, a single make good progress in delivering its longAs we move from the old to the new performance scorecard incorporating term strategy objectives of: policy, total remuneration figures will a balance of metrics aligned with the include legacy awards from the LTIP.
As delivering organic, diversified growth: Companys long-term strategic vision.
a result, the Total Remuneration Figures building an efficiently scalable and shown in the Report include both the grant Our new Policy was approved by 66% highly flexible business: and of the 2017 ESIP award, of which 60% of shareholders at the June 2017 nurturing and developing our people.
is deferred in shares, and the vesting of Annual General Meeting.
The majority of the legacy 2015 LTIP award.
There are no shareholders who engaged with us to This good progress is reflected in a total further grants under this LTIP after 2017. discuss the Policy during the consultation shareholder return in 2017 of 26% which The payments from these two schemes process recognised the challenges includes the payment of a special dividend have been separated clearly on page 65. the Company faces and gave us their of 40m during the year.
But a number of shareholders up on 2016, and 2017 total shareholder Conclusion raised concerns which we have sought to return is ranked amongst the highest in The outcomes of these awards reflect address: our peer group, and higher than our FTSE the Companys performance over the 250 index comparator.
Addressing shareholder concerns short and longer term and achievement of ESIP outcomes targets set.
Some shareholders asked whether the new ESIP would result in a move away from The ESIP awards directly reflect the Looking ahead, performance expectations long-term remuneration.
strong 2017 performance as well as for the sector have much improved during individual achievement of the targets set the course of 2017 and there has been The ESIPs annual performance metrics for each Executive Director aligned with a significant upwards shift in earnings are fully aligned with the Companys longthe strategic objectives.
Targets were set consensus forecasts for PageGroup, term strategic vision and objectives which in early 2017 when the business outlook reflecting the more positive environment.
have remained broadly consistent since for the recruitment sector was negatively These revised expectations have been 2013.
We also seek to ensure metrics impacted by an uncertain political and reflected in our targets for the year ahead, 63 | Corporate Governance
