Strategic report Go v e rna nce Financial statements Report of the Remuneration Committee 1.
Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to introducethe Report of the Remuneration Committee the Committee for the year ended 31December 2017.
Margaret Young Chair of the Remuneration Committee reviewed the pay and benets packages of senior employees for Introduction by the Chair of the the year ending 31 December 2017: R e mune rat io n Co mmi ttee reviewed the Remuneration Policy for Directors of the Company The current members of the Committee are shown on pages 20 and submitted it to the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM for and21.
shareholder approval: reviewed the settlement terms of employees leaving the Group The primary role of the Committee is to determine and recommend following the disposal of the Groups Dutch and German to the Board the specic pay and benets packages for the businesses: Executive Directors and senior employees, to ensure that they are reviewed the calculation methodology of the performance under fairly but responsibly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Founder LTIP and the PSP to allow for the impact of the the Groups overall performance taking into account their existing return of capital to shareholders during 2017: and contractual entitlements.
The Committees obj ective is to support reviewed the Committees terms of reference and performance the business strategy of the Group details of which are set out in the during the year.
Strategic Report on pages 1 to 19, to promote the Groups long term success and to align remuneration with shareholders returns.
An internal evaluation of the performance of the Committee was The Committee also administers the Groups share incentive plans.
carried out during the year, following the externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise undertaken during the previous year, and the During the year, the Committee carried out the following activities: Committee was found to be operating eectively.
held consultation meetings with a number of maj or shareholders to discuss the Companys current remuneration policy and the Performance and reward during 2017 terms of the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP : agreed the termination of the Founder LTIP with the Joint Chief Base salaries Executive Directors Executives at the end of the current three year performance Base salaries for each of the Executive Directors was increased by period i. e. 31 December 2018 following shareholder 4.8% in 2017, which compared with 6.7% increases for employees consultation feedback: across the Group as a whole.
reviewed the achievement of the 2016 annual bonus scheme performance measures against target: Performance related bonus Executive Directors reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report for The Groups performance during 2017 resulted in an increase of the year ended 31 December 2016: 55.0% in the Normalised Total profit NTP from 69.4 million to a reviewed the base salaries for the Executive Directors for the record level of 107.6 million.
The disposal of the Dutch and German year ending 31 December 2017: businesses contributed 49.2 million to the increased NTP and, in approved awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP to addition, crystallised previously unrealised exchange gains of 72.2 the Executive Directors: million and property revaluation gains of 184.1 million, enabling the agreed the design of, and targets for, the annual bonus scheme Group to make a significant return of capital during the year.
for the year ending 31 December 2017: reviewed the contractual terms of the Founder LTIP in the light of The sale of the Dutch and German businesses on 16 June 2017, shareholder feedback and proposed certain amendments: representing 61.9% of the book value of the Groups property reviewed the terms of the PSP: portfolio at 1 January 2017, generated total returns well in excess of 33 Report of the Remuneration Committee | continued 1.
Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee all of the individual financial bonus targets.
In recognition of this The Committee has concluded that existing arrangements should outcome and taking into consideration that the bonus targets were be adj usted to meet future incentivisation needs, and that no new set at levels reecting the property portfolio before the sale of the incentive plans are necessary.
The Committee therefore proposes Dutch and German businesses, the bonus targets for Normalised the following changes to the Joint Chief Executives remuneration Income profit NIP and cost eciency have been adj usted packages with eect from 1 January 2019: accordingly.
they will be readmitted to participation in the PSP and each will be eligible for annual awards subj ect to a maximum value at grant of In this context, the Committee is satisfied that the level of payment 100% of base salary: and under the annual bonus scheme for the Executive Directors is their potential annual bonus will be increased from 100% to 150% appropriate at 100% of the maximum.
Share schemes Executive Directors The following report has been prepared in accordance with the PSP awards In respect of PSP awards with a three year performance Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumperiod ended 31 December 2017, under which 50% of each award is Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations measured against Net Asset Value NAV targets and 50% against 2013 and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of Total Shareholder Return TSR targets, 100% of the NAV part and the Financial Conduct Authority and the UK Corporate Governance 100% of the TSR part is expected to vest.
The Report is presented in two parts the Remuneration Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The parts The Joint Chief Executives agreed to give up their participation in ofthe Annual Report on Remuneration that are subj ect to audit the PSP during 2018 in view of their participation in the Founder LTIP.
The Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration Policy Report Founder LTIP awards The Founder LTIP was established at IPO in arenot subj ect to audit.
November 2005 to reward the Joint Chief Executives as founder directors for the delivery of high absolute returns over an extended An Ordinary resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual period.
Under this plan, if the growth in net asset value adj usted in General meeting on 12 June 2018 to approve the Annual Report on accordance with the guidelines issued by the European Public Real Remuneration and this Statement which is subj ect to an advisory Estate Organisation EPRA NAV per ordinary share plus dividends vote.
The proposed amendments to the Remuneration Policy that and other returns to shareholders exceeds compound growth of are intended to take eect in 2019 will be subj ect to a binding more than 10% per annum over a xed three year performance shareholder vote at the following Annual General Meeting in 2019. period, the Joint Chief Executives each receive awards in ordinary shares equivalent in value to 12.5% of the excess growth.
The plan is repeated over consecutive three year performance periods.
The current, and final, performance period began on 1 January 2016 and ends on 31 December 2018.
Fees Non-Executive Directors Margaret Young Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors remain unchanged from those Chair of the Remuneration Committee agreed and implemented on 23 August 2016.
19 March 2018 Proposed amendments to the Remuneration Policy In response to the concerns that some shareholders expressed about the Founder LTIP at meetings held by the Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee with maj or shareholders in January 2017, the Joint Chief Executives agreed to a number of changes to the Founder LTIP and their overall remuneration packages.
In addition, the Joint Chief Executives agreed to the termination of the Founder LTIP following completion of the current three year performance period ending 31 December 2018 and the payment of any share awards in respect of that performance period.
These changes were agreed subj ect to shareholders approval of the proposed updated Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 13 June 2017.
At the Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2017, 96.49% of votes were cast in favour of the Annual Report on Remuneration and 96.85% of votes were cast in favour of the Remuneration Policy, andthe various amendments to the Founder LTIP and the overall remuneration packages of the Joint Chief Executives were duly implemented.
As noted in my Annual Statement last year, the agreement of the Joint Chief Executives to the termination of the Founder LTIP at theend of the current three year performance period represented a very significant concession on their part and reected the Boards understanding of the strength of shareholder views on this matter.
In view of the forthcoming termination of the Founder LTIP at 31 December 2018, the Committee has reviewed all aspects ofexecutive remuneration and consulted with shareholders concerning the appropriate replacement arrangements to be putinplace with eect from 1 January 2019.
34 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Go v e rna nce Strategic report Go v e rna nce Financial statements 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee provides details on how the Groups current approved Remuneration Policy was applied in the year ended 31 December 2017 and will be subj ect to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
2 The fees payable to David Rough, Margaret Young and Rebecca Worthington, as Non-Executive Directors, were increased from 42,000 per annum plus 3,000 per annum in respect of individual committee membership to 48,000 per annum, inclusive of fees in respect of individual committee membership, with eect from 23 August 2016.
The additional fees for the Chairs of the Audit Rebecca Worthington and the Remuneration Committee Margaret Young were increased from 7,500 to 10,000 with eect from 23 August 2016.
The additional fees for the role of Senior Independent Director David Rough remained unchanged throughout 2016 and 2017 at 7,500 per annum.
3 James Hambro retired from the Board on 23 August 2016.
4 Humphrey Price retired from the Board on 6 June 2016.
Salary and fees Salaries and fees comprise base salary for Executive Directors and fees for Non-Executive Directors.
The fees for the Non-Executives remained unchanged in 2017 from those set on 23 August 2016.
Taxable benefts Taxable benets comprise the monetary or deemed monetary value of the car allowance, private fuel and private medical insurance for the Executive Director and immediate family, and life assurance and income protection insurance provided by the Group.
No analysis of the individual elements of taxable benets has been given as the amounts are not considered to be significant in the context of an understanding of total remuneration.
35 Report of the Remuneration Committee | continued 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration Performance related bonus The maximum potential bonus for the year ended 31 December 2017 for each of the Executive Directors was 100% of base salary 2016:75%.
The 2017 bonus awards were measured against the following targets: Target Performance Measure Actual achieved % Award Granted Financial Targets NIP before tax from NIP before tax 51.9 million.
up to 40% ofaward 63million to 67 million, withadjustment for any capital raising excluding the Founder LTIP and PSP shares, to achieve full award.
Adjusted from 37 million to 40 million to reflect the sale of the Dutch and German businesses1.
NTP before tax from NTP before tax 107.6 million.
20% awarded1 65million to 71 million, withadjustment for any capital raising excluding the Founder LTIP and PSP shares, to achieve full award.
Occupancy Cost Efficiency The occupancy target range Improvement of 254,920 10% awarded.
Targets up to 20% of award is set at a minimum maximum square metres pro-rata.
range of 33,000 square metres to 66,000 square metres representing 10% to 20% of opening vacancy.
The cost efficiency target Administrative expenses 10% awarded.
range is an administrative rent ratio of 17.6%.
expenses rent ratio of 15% to 16% pro-rata.
Adjusted to 19% to 20% pro-rata to reflect the sale of the Dutch and German businesses1.
Corporate Target Produce a clear plan for All Corporate Targets were 20% awarded.
up to 20% ofaward strategy and finance.
Further and regular consideration of the optionsin relation to the Convertible Bonds.
Implement a move to electronic Board papers.
Carry out a review of financial advisers.
Discretionary Element Based on overall Given the record results and 20% awarded.
up to 20% of award performance.
restructuring of the business, the maximum awards have been granted.
1 The disposal of the Dutch and German businesses on 16 June 2017 meant that the NIP and cost efficiency targets set for the Executive Directors were not achievable.
The shortfalls in these areas were significantly less than the outperformance of 36.6 million in relation to the 71 million upper limit of the NTP target as a result of the disposal.
Accordingly, as noted in the Annual Statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on page 34, the Committee considered that the bonus targets for NIP and cost efficiency ratios should be adjusted to reflect the impact of the loss of rental income, the additional administration costs to achieve the disposal and the rationalisation costs as a result of the disposal.
In total, the Committee awarded bonuses to each Joint Chief Executive of 440,000, representing 100% of his maximum potential bonus, and 310,000 to the Finance Director, representing 100% of his maximum potential bonus.
Share schemes Performance Share Plan The value included under share schemes includes an estimate of the value of the PSP awards that will vest subject to TSR and NAV performance targets for the three year period that ended on 31 December 2017.
Based on an assessment of performance targets as at the date of this report, it is estimated that the Group will achieve 100% of the TSR ranking and 100% of the NAV growth ranking i. e. a total vesting of 100%.
The value of the share awards expected to vest is based on 1.37, being the average share price over the last quarter of 2017.
To the extent that the share awards vest, the options over the vested shares will become exercisable in three equal annual tranches from March 2018 to March 2020.
In the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2016, the share price used to calculate the value of the awards in 2016 was 1.09.
The share price on the day that the awards vested was 1.25.
The comparative amounts disclosed in the 2016 table above have been restated to reflect these changes to the estimated value.
36 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Share schemes Founder LTIP $V SDUW RI WKH IRXQGHU DUUDQJHPHQWV HVWDEOLVKHG DW, 32 LQ HDFKRLQW &KLHI [HFXWLYH LV HQWLWOHG WR D VKDUH DZDUG GHSHQGHQW RQ &RPSDQ SHUIRUPDQFH RYHU FRQVHFXWLYH WKUHH HDU SHUIRUPDQFH SHULRGV 7KH FXUUHQW DQG QDO SHUIRUPDQFH SHULRG UXQV IURPDQXDU WR 'HFHPEHU $Q DPRXQW SD DEOH XQGHU WKH RXQGHU 7,3 LV WR EH VDWLVHG E WKH DZDUG RI RUGLQDU VKDUHV RI WKH &RPSDQ 7KH QXPEHU RI VKDUHV DZDUGHG GHSHQGV RQ WKH &RPSDQ pV QHW DVVHW YDOXH JURZWK SHU VKDUH LQFOXGLQJ GLYLGHQGV DQG RWKHU UHWXUQV WR VKDUHKROGHUV H[FHHGLQJ D FRPSRXQG JURZWK UDWH RI SHU DQQXP WKH q7DUJHW 1$9r RYHU WKH GHQHG WKUHH HDU SHULRG RU WKH SXUSRVHV RI WKH RXQGHU 7,3 QHW DVVHW YDOXH LV WDNHQ WR EH 35$ 1$9 7R WKH H[WHQW WKDW 35$ 1$9 SHU RUGLQDU VKDUH LQFOXGLQJ GLYLGHQGV DQG RWKHU UHWXUQV WR VKDUHKROGHUV H[FHHGV WKH 7DUJHW 1$9 SHU VKDUH RI VXFK H[FHVV PXOWLSOLHG E WKH QXPEHU RI RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ LVVXH ZLOO EH SD DEOH WR HDFK RI WKHRLQW &KLHI [HFXWLYHV LQ WKH IRUP RI D VKDUH DZDUG 7KH YDOXH LQFOXGHG XQGHU VKDUH VFKHPHV IRU HDFK RI WKHRLQW &KLHI [HFXWLYHVp RXQGHU 7,3 DZDUGV LQ ERWK DQG LV QLO VLQFH QR DZDUGV YHVWHG LQ HLWKHU QDQFLDO HDU EHFDXVH WKH FXUUHQW DQG QDO WKUHH HDU SHUIRUPDQFH SHULRG FRPPHQFHG RQDQXDU DQG HQGV RQ 'HFHPEHU Pensions 7KH YDOXH LQFOXGHG UHSUHVHQWV WKH DPRXQWV SDLG E WKH &RPSDQ WR HDFK [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRU WR IDFLOLWDWH KLV RZQ SHQVLRQ DUUDQJHPHQWV 1RQH RI WKH [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRUV KDV D SURVSHFWLYH ULJKW WR D GHQHG EHQHW SHQVLRQ Payments to past Directors 1R SD PHQWV ZHUH PDGH GXULQJ WKH HDU 3D PHQWV IRU ORVV RI RFH 1R SD PHQWV ZHUH PDGH GXULQJ WKH HDU B.
Share scheme interests awarded during the year Performance Share Plan $ZDUGV PDGH WR WKH [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRUV XQGHU WKH 363 GXULQJ WKH HDU ZHUH DV IROORZV Share price IRU DZDUG 1XPEHU at date of of options $ZDUG GDWH grant p DFH YDOXH Performance period [HUFLVH SHULRG DZDUGHG 5LFKDUG RZHV 0D  t t 1RWHV s DFH YDOXH KDV EHHQ FDOFXODWHG XVLQJ WKH DYHUDJH RI WKH PLG PDUNHW FORVLQJ VKDUH SULFH IURP WKH 'DLO 2FLDO LVW IRU HDFK RI WKH YH GD V SUHFHGLQJ WKH GDWH RI JUDQW s 7KH DZDUG PDGH GXULQJ WKH HDU KDV QHLWKHU ODSVHG QRU YHVWHG s, Q DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH FXUUHQW DSSURYHG 5HPXQHUDWLRQ 3ROLF DQ DQQXDO DZDUG LV PDGH WR 5LFKDUG RZHV XQGHU WKH 363 LQ WKH IRUP RI QLO FRVW VKDUH RSWLRQV VXEMHFW WR D PD[LPXP YDOXH DW JUDQW RI RI EDVH VDODU s, Q DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH FXUUHQW DSSURYHG 5HPXQHUDWLRQ 3ROLF QR QHZ DZDUGV KDYH EHHQ PDGH GXULQJ WR 0RUJDQRQHV DQG, DQ :DWVRQ XQGHU WKH 363 s $V QRWHG RQ SDJH WKH 363 DZDUGV YHVW EDVHG RQ D 765 DQG 1$9 JURZWK UDQNLQJ DQG RI WKH 363 DZDUGV YHVW LI WKH PLQLPXP SHUIRUPDQFH WKUHVKROG LV PHW C. Directors shareholdings and share interests Shareholding guidelines, Q DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK WKH FXUUHQW DSSURYHG 5HPXQHUDWLRQ 3ROLF [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRUV DUH UHTXLUHG WR PDLQWDLQ D PLQLPXP KROGLQJ RI VKDUHV LQ WKH &RPSDQ :LWKLQ WKUHH HDUV RI WKHLU DSSRLQWPHQW [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRUV DUH H[SHFWHG WR EXLOG DQG WKHQ PDLQWDLQ D KROGLQJ RI VKDUHV LQ WKH &RPSDQ HTXDO WR RQH HDUpV SUH WD[ EDVH VDODU 7KH &KDLUPDQ DQG 1RQ [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRUV DUH QRW UHTXLUHG WR KROG DQ VKDUHV LQ WKH &RPSDQ, Q WKH FDVH RI HDFK RI WKHRLQW &KLHI [HFXWLYHV WKLV UHTXLUHPHQW LV RQ WKHLU SUH WD[ EDVH VDODU LQ YLHZ RI WKHLU SDUWLFLSDWLRQ LQ WKH RXQGHU 7,3 7KH FXUUHQW VKDUHKROGLQJV RI WKH [HFXWLYH 'LUHFWRUV RQ 'HFHPEHU FRPSDUHG WR WKHLU UHVSHFWLYH EDVH VDODULHV DUH 0RUJDQRQHV t, DQ :DWVRQ t DQG 5LFKDUG RZHV t Directors interests as at 31 December 2017 6KDUHV VXEMHFW to Founder Shares 6KDUHV VXEMHFW WR 363 DZDUGV 7,3 DZDUGV 8QYHVWHG ZLWK 9HVWHG [HUFLVHG Ordinary performance EXW QRW 9HVWHG DQG during the shares measures H[HUFLVDEOH H[HUFLVDEOH year 9HVWHG, DQ :DWVRQ Morgan Jones 5LFKDUG RZHV 0HOY Q JJOHQWRQ 'DYLG 5RXJK 0DUJDUHW RXQJ 5HEHFFD :RUWKLQJWRQ 7KH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQFOXGH WKRVH KHOG E FRQQHFWHG SHUVRQV 1RQH RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV KHOG E 'LUHFWRUV DUH VXEMHFW WR SHUIRUPDQFH PHDVXUHV Report of the Remuneration Committee | continued 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration Ian Watson and Morgan Jones participate in the Founder LTIP.
Provided that the performance conditions are met, the number of shares that will be issued at the end of the current three year period 31 December 2018 depends on the Groups net asset value growth per share.
As a result, the number of shares that will be issuable is not yet known.
There have been no changes to the beneficial and other interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of Hansteen Holdings PLC as shown on the previous page from 31 December 2017 to the date of this report.
Review of the impact on the Founder LTIP and PSP on the return of capital to shareholders during 2017 As indicated in the Circular of 4 October 2017, the tender offer and subsequent repurchase of shares the buyback was expected to have animpact on participants entitlements under the Founder LTIP and PSP the Share Plans.
The Share Plans require the Committee to makefair and reasonable adjustments to the awards under those plans in the event of any variation in the share capital of the Company.
The Committee, having taken independent advice, agreed that the following adjustments to the operation of the Share Plans were appropriate.
Founder LTIP The Founder LTIP was established at IPO in November 2005 to incentivise the Joint Chief Executives, as founders of the Company, and to reward the delivery of exceptional returns over an extended period.
Under the Founder LTIP, if the growth in the Companys EPRA NAV per ordinary share plus dividends and other returns to shareholders exceeds compound growth of more than 10% per annum over a fixed three year performance period Target EPRA NAV, the Joint Chief Executives will each receive an award of ordinary shares with a value equal to 12.5% of the EPRA NAV per share growth in excess of the Target EPRA NAV multiplied by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the end ofthe three year performance period.
The current, and final, performance period under the Founder LTIP runs from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
The rules of the Founder LTIP require the Committee to make alterations to the LTIP calculations if, for example, there are changes in the capital structure, and to do so in a way that achieves the intended original objective of this plan.
The calculation of performance in the final performance period under the Founder LTIP will be materially altered by the buyback at the price of 140p per ordinary share.
The Committee considered that an adjustment to the calculation was necessary to achieve the intended objective of the Founder LTIP.
The Committee therefore adjusted the performance condition to measure EPRA NAV per share growth over two periods: The first period will run from 1 January 2016 to the date immediately before the buyback proceeds were paid to the shareholders on 14 November 2017 and will be measured by reference to the number of ordinary shares in issue at such date.
The second period will run fromthe date immediately after the buyback proceeds were paid to the shareholders on 14 November 2017 to the end of the three year performance period and will be measured by reference to the number of ordinary shares in issue at the end of that period.
The outperformance or underperformance in the two periods will be aggregated to arrive at the performance over the full three year performance period.
The EPRA NAV at 1 January 2016 was 111.2p per share and the Target EPRA NAV at 14 November 2017 was 132.9p per share.
The actual EPRA NAV plus dividends and other returns to shareholders achieved at the end of the first period was 146.9p per share resulting in a potential Founder LTIP award of 14.4 million to each of the Joint Chief Executives.
The EPRA NAV at the start of the second period was 131.0p per share and the Target EPRA NAV at 31 December 2018 is 145.9p per share.
PSP Under the PSP, participants are entitled to a share award dependent on Company performance.
The number of ordinary shares of the Company vesting under the PSP will depend on the following: 50% of the award will vest depending on the Companys EPRA NAV per share growth plus dividends and other returns to shareholders relative to a comparator group.
50% of the award will vest depending on the Companys TSR per ordinary share being the increase in share price plus dividends and other returns to shareholders relative to a comparator group.
For both EPRA NAV and TSR, median performance will result in 25% vesting of their respective elements, with 100% vesting at upper quartile performance or above.
As at 2 November 2017, which was the last day of trading before the entitlement to participate in the share buyback ended, there were threeoutstanding PSP awards within their performance periods: PSP 5 1 January 2015 31 December 2017, PSP 6 1 January 2016 31 December 2018 and PSP 7 1 January 2017 31 December 2019.
The buyback of shares at a premium to both the EPRA NAV per share and the share price on 2 November 2017 led to a reduction in the Companys EPRA NAV per share and share price immediately after the buyback.
The performance calculations for the outstanding PSP 5, PSP 6 and PSP 7 awards have been amended so that the overall performance over the whole performance period is not distorted by this one-off reduction.
In addition, as the holders of both these outstanding PSP awards and previous PSP awards which had vested but were not exercisable could not participate in the share buyback, the number of ordinary shares subject to their awards were also amended so they were not disadvantaged.
As a result, 2,866 ordinary shares were added to the awards over 434,144 ordinary shares which had vested but were not exercisable and 16,664 ordinary shares were added to the awards over 2,525,353 ordinary shares which were unvested and subject to performance measures.
Non-audited information D. External directorships The Executive Directors are permitted, subject to the prior written consent of the Board, to accept appointments as Non-Executive Directors on other Boards so long as none of such interests prejudice the business interests of the Company or of any Group Company.
Noneof the Executive Directors have any fee paying external directorships.
38 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance Strategic report Go v e rna nce Financial statements E. Service contracts The date of each Executive Directors service agreement with the Company and its unexpired term is stated below.
Executive Directors Date of service agreement Unexpired term Morgan Jones Joint Chief Executive 22 November 2005 12 months Ian Watson Joint Chief Executive 22 November 2005 12 months Richard Lowes Finance Director 18 October 2010 12 months The Non-Executive Directors each have specic terms of engagement with the Company and their dates of engagement are set out below.
Their terms of engagement contain no notice period.
Date on which next subj ect to Non-Executive Directors Date of engagement re-appointment or re-election Melvyn Egglenton 9 June 2014 12 June 2018 David Rough 1 October 2015 12 June 2018 Resigned with eect from Rebecca Worthington 9 June 2014 20 March 2018 Margaret Young 1 October 2015 12 June 2018 1 Melvyn Egglenton entered into a new letter of engagement with eect from 23 August 2016 following his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
2 As announced on 22 February 2018, Rebecca Worthington resigned from the Board with eect from 20 March 2018.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive, will retire and oer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the Directors service contracts or letters of engagement are available for inspection at the Companys registered oce.
F. Performance graphs and Joint Chief Executives remuneration table The following graphs compare the Companys TSR to two FTSE Real Estate indices.
TSR measures share price growth, with dividends deemed to be reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
The comparator indices used have been chosen by the Committee as they are considered the most appropriate benchmarks against which to assess the relative performance of the Company for this purpose and for these time periods.
The graphs are based on underlying data provided by Thomson Reuters Datastream.
Performance since otation The following graph details the Companys TSR performance since otation.
Prior to 6 October 2009, the index used for comparison is the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index which up until that point the Company would have been a constituent member of.
From 6 October 2009, the index used for comparison is the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index, to reect the Companys conversion into a REIT with eect from that date.
Annual Report on Remuneration Nine-year performance The following nine-year performance graph compares solely against the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index.
400 H ansteen Index 350 300 250 2 00 1 50 1 00 50 0 0 1 0 1 09 3 1 12 1 0 3 1 1 2 11 3 1 12 1 2 3 1 1 2 1 3 3 1 12 1 4 3 1 1 2 1 5 3 1 12 1 6 3 1 1 2 1 7 Joint Chief Executives remuneration table The following table shows the single gure remuneration and percentage of bonus and incentive vesting for the Joint Chief Executives for the last nine years.
Long-term incentive Annual bonus pay out against vesting rates against Single gure maximum opportunity maximum opportunity Year Joint Chief Executive 000 % % 2017 Ian Watson 1,457 100.0 100.0 Morgan Jones 1,452 100.0 100.0 2016 Ian Watson 1,011 85.0 50.0 Morgan Jones 1,007 85.0 50.0 2015 Ian Watson 25,866 61.7 37.5 Morgan Jones 25,863 61.7 37.5 2014 Ian Watson 1,109 97.5 50.0 Morgan Jones 1,106 97.5 50.0 2013 Ian Watson 1,052 97.5 56.25 Morgan Jones 1,050 97.5 56.25 2012 Ian Watson 793 82.9 Morgan Jones 789 82.9 2011 Ian Watson 671 95.0 Morgan Jones 667 95.0 2010 Ian Watson 604 97.7 Morgan Jones 600 87.7 2009 Ian Watson 499 89.8 Morgan Jones 497 89.8 As described on page 37, the Joint Chief Executives participate in the Founder LTIP.
The potential share entitlement is not subj ect to a maximum opportunity, but based on performance against set criteria.
The long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity therefore relate only to the PSP.
G. Percentage change in remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Joint Chief Executives for the last financial year compared with the remuneration of all employees.
Performance Salary fees Taxable benets Related bonus % change 2016 to 2017 % % % Joint Chief Executives 4.8 4.8 64 All other employees 6.7 6.3 17 Excluding j oiners and leavers during the year.
40 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Go v e rna nce Strategic report Go v e rna nce Financial statements H. Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the relative importance of overall expenditure on pay by the Group compared to the Groups key financial measures and dividends paid to shareholders in the year.
2 20 16 20 17 20 16 20 17 20 16 20 17 Normalised Income Profit Dividends and share buybacks Overall expenditure on pay from continuing operations NIP has been chosen as a metric for this comparison as the Directors believe that it represents underlying earnings of the Group and is a key performance indicator.
The percentage movement reects the year-on-year change.
The principal reason for the increase in the overall expenditure on pay in 2017 is due to the 20.4 million IFRS 2 charge in the year 2016: 1.5 million for the Founder LTIP awards, PSP awards and associated social security costs.
This reects the substantial increase in the EPRA NAV in the year principally as a result of the sale of the German and Dutch businesses and the increase in investment property valuations in the year.
The Committee and its advisers During the year, the Committee comprised Margaret Young Chair, Melvyn Egglenton, Rebecca Worthington and David Rough, all being Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Jim Clarke, having been appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 27 February 2018, was also appointed a member of the Committee with eect from the same date.
Rebecca Worthington resigned from the Board and the Committee with eect from 20 March 2018.
Melvyn Egglenton, the Chairman of the Board, was a member but not the Chair of the Committee.
Accordingly, the membership of the Committee complies with provision D2.1 of the Corporate Governance Code 2016.
The Committee meets regularly, and no less than twice a year.
In 2017, the Committee met three times for scheduled meetings.
Details of attendance at meetings can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 23.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, updated following a review undertaken in October 2017, are available on the Companys website at www.
The performance of the Committee was assessed during the year as part of the internal evaluation of the Board and its committees and was found to be operating eectively.
Further details of the evaluation are given on page 22 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Committee seeks external advice to assist it where appropriate.
 were appointed by the Committee in September 2015 following a review of the Companys remuneration advisers, through a tender process.
The Committee consulted  during 2017 and approved fees to them of 240,360, excluding VAT, for independent remuneration advice, chargedon a time and expenses basis.
Having considered that  provided tax advisory and compliance services to the Company during the year, the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by  is both independent and obj ective.
 adhere to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee seeks internal support from the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary where necessary.
They may all attend Committee meetings by invitation, but are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration.
Implementation of policy for 2018 We summarise below the key elements of the 2018 remuneration package for the Executive Directors in line with the current approved Remuneration Policy.
Those key elements are: Fixed pay benets base annual salary and benets, pension contributions and insurance cover.
Variable annual pay cash payments under the annual performance related bonus scheme.
Variable long-term pay share based long-term incentives under the PSP and the Founder LTIP with performance criteria.
41 Report of the Remuneration Committee | continued 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration Fixed pay benefits The Committee has approved no increase to base annual salary for Morgan Jones and Ian Watson and an increase to base annual salary of 4%for Richard Lowes with effect from 1 January 2018 as set out below.
No increase has been approved for the Non-Executive Directors.
2017 2018 Salary Salary Executive Directors 000 000 Morgan Jones 440 440 Ian Watson 440 440 Richard Lowes 310 322 No changes will be made to pension and benefit provision.
Variable annual pay The Board has set new targets for the Executive Directors for the annual bonus in line with the Groups strategic, financial and operational objectives.
In line with the current Remuneration Policy, the maximum potential bonus is set at 100% of base salary for each of the Executive Directors.
The changes to the annual bonus targets are within the scope of the current approved Remuneration Policy.
The bonus criteria for 2018 include five elements: Target Performance Measure % of Potential Award Financial Targets NTP before tax from 29 million to 34 million, with adjustment Up to 40% of award up to 40% ofaward for any material change in capital excluding the Founder LTIP and on a slidingscale.
PSP shares, to achieve full award.
ERV up to 10% of award The ERV target is to achieve an increase in lease renewals, rent Up to 10% of award reviews and lettings in the year in excess of the ERV for those on a sliding scale.
properties at 31 December 2017 by a range of 0%5%.
Cost Efficiency Target The cost efficiency target is to reduce administration costs in Up to 10% of award up to 10% of award respect of the continuing business to be in the range 13.3 million on a sliding scale.
Corporate Target To prepare a detailed plan of action to close down the surplus Up to 20% of award.
up to 20% of award corporate entities following the disposal of the Dutch and German businesses in 2017 and to make meaningful progress during 2018 to implement the plan.
Discretionary Element Following recent changes to the composition of the Group and its Up to 20% of award.
up to 20% of award capital structure, to fully investigate strategic options and agree a clear path to implementation.
Performance Share Plan Annual awards are subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary but, in line with the current approved Remuneration Policy, no awards will be made to either of the Joint Chief Executives for 2018 in view of their participation in the Founder LTIP.
The Finance Director will be awarded nil-cost share options under the PSP with a value at grant of 100% of his base salary.
The award will vest based on two separate performance conditions: 50% will vest by reference to the Groups TSR ranking and 50% by reference to the Groups EPRA Net Asset Value ranking, in each case relative to a comparator group over a three year performance period.
To the extent that an award vests, the options over the vested shares will become exercisable in three equal annual tranches following the end of the performance period.
The comparator group is determined by the Committee and comprises a peer group of companies in the property sector.
When granting awards, the Committee reserves the right to vary the constituents of the comparator group or take such other actions as it considers reasonable in the event that any member of the comparator group ceases to exist, or its shares cease to be listed in the Official List of the London Stock Exchange or other recognised stock exchange, or it is so changed as to make it, in the opinion of the Committee, unsuitable as a member of the comparator group.
The percentage of the award that vests is subject to the following schedule: TSR NAV Growth Ranking % of Potential Award Below Median Nil Median 25% Between Median and Upper Quartile On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% in proportion to the Companys ranking between Median and Upper Quartile Upper Quartile 100% 42 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Founder LTIP Under the Founder LTIP, the current, and final, three year performance measurement period commenced on 1 January 2016 and will end on 31 December 2018.
Each of the Joint Chief Executives will be entitled to an award of ordinary shares with a value equivalent to 12.5% of the Companys EPRA NAV growth per share including dividends and other returns to shareholders in excess of a 10% per annum compound growth in the EPRA NAV per share over the performance measurement period.
An adjustment to the calculation of the performance condition to allow for the return of capital to shareholders during the period will be made as set out on page 38.
The awards will be subject to the following conditions: Award shares may be satisfied by the issue of new shares and or the use of market purchase shares.
Shares awarded will be subject to a two year holding period whilst a Director remains employed as Joint Chief Executive, subject to his being allowed to sell sufficient shares to cover any income tax and national insurance obligations arising as a result of the award.
This requirement will not apply in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Awards will be subject to malus and clawback, with potential awards subject to cancellation or reduction and actual awards subject to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
K. Voting at the Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting held on 13 June 2017, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Annual Report on Remuneration were as set out below.
The current Remuneration Policy was most recently put to shareholders and approved at the Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2017, and votes cast by proxy and by a poll at the meeting were as set out below.
Votes Total Votes withheld Resolution text Votes for % For against % against votes cast abstentions 13 June 2017 Approval of Annual Report on Remuneration 541,434,772 96.49% 19,698,720 3.51% 561,133,492 6,492,338 13 June 2017 Approval of Remuneration policy 548,913,834 96.85% 17,856,786 3.15% 567,770,620 855,210 43 Report of the Remuneration Committee | continued 3.
Directors Remuneration Policy Report This part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee sets out the principal sections of the Remuneration Policy for Directors of the Company which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2017.
Details of the full Remuneration Policy can befound in the 2016 Annual Report available on the Companys website at www.
Summary policy table Executive Directors Fixed Pay Element % of Potential Award Purpose and link to strategy To attract, retain and motivate high-calibre individuals.
To provide competitive non-variable remuneration relative to the external market.
To recognise and reward performance, skills and experience.
Operation Normally reviewed in January each year having regard to market practice, to Group and individual performance, to salary increases across the Group and to the individuals experience, skills, qualifications and scope of responsibility.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum.
Salary increases will generally be limited to the average increase in salary for employees across the Group as a whole, although the Committee has discretion to award increases above this level to take account of individual circumstances such as increase in scope and responsibility, individual development and performance in role, and alignment to market level.
Performance measures None, but individual and Group performance will be considered when deciding salary levels.
Element Pension Purpose and link to strategy To help recruit and retain high-calibre individuals reflecting their skills and experience.
Operation Individuals will be responsible for their own pension arrangements and funds will be provided by the Company to enable them to facilitate those arrangements.
Maximum opportunity Employer contribution of maximum of 16% of base salary.
Element Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package appropriate to the role and location of individuals.
Operation Benefits will comprise the provision of a company car allowance, private fuel, private medical insurance for the individual and immediate family, life assurance and income protection insurance.
Individuals will also be provided with the technology required to enable them to carry out their duties effectively and efficiently.
The benefits package may be adjusted by the Committee from time to time to reflect an individuals particular circumstances and to align to market level.
In addition to the above, other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum as the costs of provision may fluctuate depending on individual circumstances and changes in provider costs, but the Committee must be satisfied that the cost is reasonable in the particular individuals circumstances.
Variable Pay Element Annual performance related bonus scheme Purpose and link to strategy To reward excellent financial performance and achievement of strategic, financial and operational objectives linked to investor expectations at the beginning of the year.
Operation Measures and targets will be reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year and the levels of award will be determined by the Committee after the year-end based on the performance against targets.
Bonus awards will be paid in cash, will be non-pensionable and will be subject to malus and clawback, with potential awards subject to cancellation or reduction and actual awards subject to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Maximum opportunity Up to 100% of base salary.
Performance measures A combination of financial and non-financial targets, such as occupancy and cost efficiency targets, corporate targets and a discretionary element to reward overall performance.
The exact measures, weightings and targets will be determined by the Committee each year taking into account the Groups key strategic priorities, financial and operational objectives, and the budget for the year.
44 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive Directors Element Performance share plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward outstanding performance and ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
Operation Awards of conditional shares or share options on an annual basis.
Awards will normally vest no earlier than three years from grant, subject to continued employment and performance conditions.
Awards will be subject to malus and clawback, with awards subject to cancellation or reduction and, after awards have vested, to clawback over a period of two years from vesting if there has been a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or fraud or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Maximum opportunity Annual awards subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary, but the Joint Chief Executives will not be eligible for awards in view of their participation in the Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Performance measures Targets are set by the Committee in accordance with the strategic, financial and operational objectives of the Group at the time the awards are granted and measured over a three year performance period commencing with the beginning of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
Element Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Legacy contractual arrangements forming part of the Joint Chief Executives service agreements established at IPO November 2005 to incentivise them and to reward the delivery of exceptional returns to shareholders that will be discontinued at the end of the current three year performance period ending 31 December 2018.
The Founder LTIP is not available to any other Directors.
Operation Contractual rights to share awards operating over a three year performance period where the Companys EPRA NAV growth per share including dividends and other returns to shareholders exceeds 33.1% over that period the Target EPRA NAV.
The current, and final, performance period is 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 and awards in relation to that period will be subject to the following conditions: Award shares may be satisfied by the issue of new shares and or the use of market purchase shares.
Shares awarded will be subject to a two year holding period whilst a Director remains employed as Joint Chief Executive, subject to their being allowed to sell sufficient shares to cover any income tax and national insurance obligations arising as a result of the award.
Maximum opportunity For each Joint Chief Executive, an award of ordinary shares, subject to the above conditions, with a value equal to 12.5% of the EPRA NAV per share growth in excess of the Target EPRA NAV multiplied by the number of shares in issue at the end of the relevant three year performance period.
Performance measures In the relevant three year performance period, the EPRA NAV per share will be required to have compound growth in excess of 10% per annum.
The EPRA NAV per share growth and the Target EPRA NAV will be measured after including dividends and other returns to shareholders.
The performance measure has been chosen to reward the Joint Chief Executives if the Groups return to shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
Element Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategy To demonstrate the commitment of individuals to the Company and to ensure alignment of their personal interests with those of the Company and the shareholders.
Operation Within three years of their appointment, individuals will be required to build and then maintain a shareholding in the Company equal in value to their pre-tax base salary.
In the case of each of the Joint Chief Executives, this requirement will be 200% of their pre-tax base salary in view of their participation in the Founder LTIP.
Element Fees Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
45 Report of the Remuneration Committee | continued 3.
Directors Remuneration Policy Report Non-Executive Directors Element Fees Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
Operation Fees will be reviewed periodically.
Non-Executive Directors will not participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive schemes and will receive no other benefits.
Maximum opportunity There will be no individual maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
Fees will be set at a level to reflect time commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role and by reference to surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of companies with comparable market capitalisation.
The Chairman will be paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Non-Executive Directors will be paid a basic fee plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or for acting as Senior Independent Director.
These will be determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors will participate in the determination of their own pay.
Overall fees will be required to remain within the limit in the Articles of Association of 750,000 in aggregate.
The proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy that are intended to take effect from 1 January 2019, subject to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2019, are as follows: the Joint Chief Executives will be re-admitted to participation in the PSP and each will be eligible for annual awards subject to a maximum value at grant of 100% of base salary: and the potential annual bonus that each of the Joint Chief Executives may earn under the annual performance related bonus scheme will be increased from 100% to 150% of base salary.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Margaret Young Chair of the Remuneration Committee 46 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Governance
