Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors Remuneration Report The Committees main focus Karen Slatford has been on expanding on the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Policy laid out in the Prospectus, to ensure that this fully aligns with the aim of recruiting and retaining the best leadership team, whilst protecting the interests of shareholders.
Membership of the Committee As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to In compliance with the Code, the Committees present our report covering Alfas Remuneration Policy and membership is limited to independent Non-Executive practice since becoming a listed company.
The Committee Directors of the Company.
There have been no changes has reviewed and built on the remuneration work undertaken in Committee membership since Admission.
Prism, by the Board in the lead up to the IPO, as published in the the outsourced Company Secretary, acts as secretary prospectus.
The Remuneration Policy set out in this Annual to the Committee.
Report is intended to incentivise and motivate the executive leadership team to achieve the Companys strategic goals.
Karen Slatford Chairman By ensuring a significant proportion of variable remuneration Independent Non-Executive Director is delivered in shares and setting a minimum level of Richard Longdon shareholding for executives, we also believe the approach is Senior Independent Non-Executive Director structured to encourage the leadership team to act in your best interests as shareholders in Alfa.
Robin Taylor Independent Non-Executive Director This report lays out the principles of our proposed Remuneration Policy, how we have operated it since the IPO and how we plan to operate in future.
As this is our first year Role of the Committee as a listed company, we have treated the Directors who were The Committees primary role is to review and set the Directors of the previous holding company, Alfa Financial Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and Software Group Limited, as if they have been Directors of certain other members of senior management.
Directors who were appointed during 2017 have been treated as Directors from the date Committee meetings in 2017 of appointment.
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec We have set out this report in three parts.
This Annual 12 29 23 Statement sets out an overview of 2017.
This is followed by the Remuneration Policy which will be put forward to the Meetings shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Finally, the Annual Report on The Committee met three times during the year.
Remuneration, set out on pages 77 to 81 to this Annual Report, Attendance by the Committee members at these provides greater detail of the amounts paid in 2017 and how the meetings is shown below: Remuneration Policy is intended to be implemented in 2018.
We hope you find the information contained in the report to 12 Jul 29 Aug 23 Nov be clear and informative.
Karen Slatford Chair Role of the Committee Richard Longdon The Committees primary role is to review and set the Robin Taylor Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and certain other members of senior management.
It also approves discretionary performance-related awards to Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committees full Terms of Reference may be viewed on Alfas website.
The Executive Chairman, the CEO and other senior members of Alfas management team may attend by invitation but will not be present when their own remuneration is discussed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 69 Directors Remuneration Report continued Appointment of external advisors Employee share ownership Following an external tender process, Mercer Kepler was Widespread share ownership has always been and remains appointed as external advisor to the Committee to provide an integral part of our culture.
All of our employees contribute independent support and information as required.
Mercer to the achievement of our strategy and we believe that Keplers fees for 2017 amounted to 5,000. extending share ownership throughout the Company enhances loyalty and engagement.
In keeping with this ethos, Principal activities in 2017 the Committee approved the budget for a grant of In the lead up to Admission, in anticipation of becoming discretionary nil cost option share awards under the LTIP to a a PLC, the Board reviewed certain aspects of senior wide range of Alfa team members who had not received share remuneration to ensure an appropriate remuneration awards in the past.
These awards are expected to be made in structure and strategy was in place.
Following the listing, the principal activities were as follows: Focus for 2018 reviewed and proposed the Alfa Remuneration Policy for In the coming year the Remuneration Committee will consider approval by the Board and by shareholders at the 2018 AGM: a number of matters including: tendered and appointed executive remuneration assessment of Group performance against 2017 budget consulting services: and determination of bonus awards: reviewed the annual bonus targets for the Executive approval of bonus performance measures and targets Directors for 2017 and measured performance against them: for 2018: agreed the annual bonus targets for the Executive Directors approval of performance conditions and awards under for 2018: the 2018 LTIP: approved awards to employees under the Long-Term Incentive review of any issues raised by shareholders in relation Plans LTIP, with appropriate performance measures, bonus to remuneration and the Remuneration Policy: and deferral into shares and malus and claw back provisions: and assessment of the ongoing appropriateness of the reviewed and approved the Terms of Reference of remuneration arrangements in light of remuneration the Committee.
Remuneration Policy overview The Committee believes that the total remuneration package The principal objectives of the Companys Remuneration for each Executive Director represents an appropriate Policy are to attract, retain and motivate the Groups balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
It will Executive Directors and senior management, provide reward personal and corporate outperformance whilst incentives that align with, and support, the Groups business ensuring overall awards are broadly in line with FTSE250 levels.
strategy as it evolves, and align incentives with the creation Resolutions at the AGM of long-term Shareholder value plans for 2018 and beyond.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on our Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee will oversee the on page 71 to this Annual Report, which will remain in place for implementation of this policy and seeks to ensure that three years from the date of approval, and on the Annual the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded for the Groups Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM.
Shareholders will performance over the short, medium and long term.
Taking also be asked to approve the Employee Share Purchase Plan for typical practice into account, the Committee has decided US Alfa team members, recognising that US employees will that a significant proportion of potential total remuneration not be eligible to participate in the UK Share Incentive Plan.
In accordance with legislative requirements, the vote on the Remuneration Policy will be binding and the vote on the In readiness for Admission, the Committee approved the rules Remuneration Report will be advisory.
I look forward to your for a LTIP, a Company Share Option Plan CSOP and an support on both resolutions.
all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Basic salary, bonus and LTIP levels were agreed for the Executive Directors taking into account their service with Alfa and experience in the role.
Karen Slatford Salary for the Executive Chairman has been set at 374,448 Chair of the Remuneration Committee per annum, at 321,912 per annum for the CEO and at 220,000 per annum for the CFO.
No increases are proposed 8 March 2018 for 2018.
However, shareholders should note that the Committee will closely monitor the salary and total remuneration for the CFO in particular and reserves the right to make an increase in excess of typical market practice if it considers it necessary and appropriate.
The Executive Chairman and the CEO have separately advised the Remuneration Committee that as they have a significant shareholding in the Company, they wish to waive their eligibility for a bonus in respect of the performance year 2017 and for any LTIP award for the performance period beginning January 2018.
70 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
