Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors Remuneration Policy Overall remuneration is structured and set at levels to enable Compliance Statement Alfa to recruit and retain high calibre colleagues necessary for This section sets out Alfas Remuneration Policy for business success whilst ensuring that: Executive and Non-executive Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium our reward structure, performance measures and mix Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports between fixed and variable elements is comparable with Amendment Regulations 2013.
The policy will be subject to similar organisations: a binding shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM and, subject to rewards are aligned to the strategy and aims of the Shareholder approval, will become effective from the date of business: and the AGM.
Subject to Shareholder approval, the Remuneration the approach is simple to communicate to participants Policy is intended to remain in effect for three years from the and shareholders.
Particular account has been taken of structures used within The Policy explains the purpose and principles underlying other FTSE 250 companies, especially comparable technology the structure of remuneration packages and how the Policy organisations.
links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.
Fixed elements of remuneration for Executive Directors Element of Purpose and link Maximum Operation Remuneration to Company Strategy opportunity Salary Provides a set level of The Committee takes into account a There is no set maximum to salary remuneration sufficient number of factors when setting and levels or salary increases.
Account to attract and retain reviewing salaries, including: will be taken of increases applied Executives with the to colleagues as a whole when scope and responsibility of the role: appropriate experience determining salary increases for any changes to the scope or size and expertise.
the Executive Directors, however of the role: the Committee retains the the skills and experience of the discretion to award higher individual: increases where it considers it salary levels for similar roles within appropriate, especially where appropriate comparators: and salary at outset has been set at value of the remuneration package a relatively low level.
Benefits Provides benefits sufficient Executive Directors are entitled The Committee recognises to attract and retain to the following benefits: the need to maintain suitable Executives with the flexibility in the benefits provided life assurance: appropriate experience to ensure it is able to support the income protection insurance: and expertise.
objective of attracting and private medical insurance: and retaining personnel in order to car allowance.
The maximum will be set at the cost of Executive Directors are also eligible providing the benefits described.
to participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as One-off payments such as legal other staff.
fees or outplacement costs may also be paid if it is considered appropriate.
Pensions Provides pension Directors are eligible to receive 10% of salary per annum.
contributions sufficient employer contributions to the to attract and retain Companys pension plan which Executives with the is a defined contribution plan appropriate experience or a salary supplement in lieu of and expertise.
None of the fixed elements of remuneration are subject to performance metrics.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 71 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Variable elements of remuneration for Executive Directors Element of Purpose and link Maximum Performance Operation Remuneration to Company Strategy opportunity metrics Annual bonus Variable remuneration Objectives are set annually Up to 150% salary Awards are based on that rewards the based on the achievement of for the Executive financial, operational achievement of annual strategic goals.
At the end of Chairman and CEO.
and individual goals set financial, operational the year, the Committee Up to 125% salary at the start of the year.
and individual meets to review performance for the CFO.
At least 50% of the award objectives integral to against the agreed objectives will be assessed against The bonus for onCompany strategy.
the Companys financial target performance As the bonus structure for performance in that year.
is 50% of the 2017 was finalised prior to maximum award.
Admission, the awards for the The remainder of the If performance is year being reported will be award will be based on less than each of made in cash.
achievement against the thresholds of specific personal and From the performance year the relevant target, strategic objectives.
2018 onwards, not less than no bonus will be The Committee reserves 25% of any bonus will awarded.
the right to make an award normally be deferred for a of a different amount period of three years.
Any produced by achievement accrued dividends can be paid against the measures if it in cash or shares.
believes the outcome is The Committee retains the not a fair reflection of discretion to allow dividends Company performance.
to accrue over the vesting period in respect of the The split between awards that vest.
these performance measures will be Malus and Clawback determined annually provisions may be applied in by the Committee and exceptional circumstances.
exceptionally during the year if there is a compelling reason to do so.
Long-Term Variable remuneration Awards granted under 175% salary in any Performance measures Incentive designed to incentivise the LTIP vest subject to scheme year for the are currently EPS and Plan LTIP and reward the achievement of performance Executive Chairman relative TSR, with equal achievement of longconditions measured over a and CEO.
150% weighting given to each term targets aligned three-year period.
LTIPs may salary for the CFO.
The Committee with shareholder be made as conditional share Any awards made in reserves the right to interests.
The LTIP also awards or in other forms the same year under adjust the measures provides flexibility in e. g. nil cost options if it is the Company Share before awards are granted the retention and considered appropriate.
Option Scheme will to reflect relevant recruitment of be taken into strategic targets.
Accrued dividends may Executive Directors.
account in applying be paid in cash or shares, to The Committee reserves these limits.
In the extent that awards vest.
the right to adjust the exceptional outcome produced by The Committee may circumstances achievement against the adjust and amend awards awards totalling measures if it believes the in accordance with the 200% salary may be outcome is not a fair LTIP rules.
reflection of Company Malus and Clawback Threshold performance.
provisions may be applied in performance will exceptional circumstances.
result in 25% of the award vesting.
72 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Element of Purpose and link Maximum Performance Operation Remuneration to Company Strategy opportunity metrics Company Variable remuneration Awards granted under the Maximum value of The CSOP will be used Share Option designed to incentivise CSOP become exercisable 30,000 at the time if the Remuneration Plan CSOP and reward the subject to such timings and of grant, including Committee feel it is achievement of longperformance conditions as any existing awards advantageous to do so, term targets aligned may be set by the Committee.
and on such terms as they with shareholder Overall maximum of regard as appropriate and Options are granted at interests.
The CSOP 200% salary in any in shareholders interests.
market value or the nominal also provides flexibility one year including share price if higher.
in the retention and any awards under recruitment of Accrued dividends may be the LTIP rules.
paid in cash or shares, to the extent that awards vest.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the CSOP rules.
Share An all-employee plan The Company operates a Participation in any The Company may Incentive designed to encourage SIP in which the Executive HMRC-approved apply conditions to Plan SIP share ownership.
Directors are eligible to all-employee share participation in the SIP, participate as required for plan is subject to the which will apply to all HMRC approval.
maximum permitted eligible employees, as by the relevant tax allowed by HMRC.
the Executive Directors actions have caused the Group Notes to the Policy Table company and or the participants business unit reputational All LTIP and CSOP awards and bonus awards made in respect damage: of the 2018 financial year onwards to Executive Directors are subject to Malus and Clawback provisions.
The Committee an Executive Directors actions amount to serious may, in its absolute discretion, determine to reduce the misconduct or conduct which causes significant financial loss number of shares to which an award or option relates or cancel for the Group and or the participants business unit: and it altogether.
Alternatively, the Committee could impose there have been overpayments to the Executive Director further conditions on the vesting or exercise of an award or due to material abnormal write-offs affecting any Group option.
At any time within five years of an award being made company of an exceptional basis.
the Committee may require the Executive Director to transfer Legacy arrangements to the Company a number of shares or a cash amount in Executive Directors may be eligible to receive any relevant circumstances where: payment from any award or other remuneration arrangements the financial statements or results for the Group are made prior to the approval of the Remuneration Policy such materially restated other than restatement due to a change as the vesting of share awards made prior to IPO, or prior to in accounting policy or to rectify a minor error : appointment to the Board.
Details of any such payments will in the reasonable opinion of the Board of Directors of the be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Company an Executive Director has deliberately misled the The most likely scenario for any such disclosure would be management of the Company and or the market and or the promotion for an existing senior manager to the Board.
Companys shareholders regarding the financial performance of any part of the Group: Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 73 Directors Remuneration Policy continued including timing of vesting, performance conditions and the Remuneration policy for other employees probability of those conditions being met.
Where As with the Executive Directors, salary for other employees appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to use the is set at a level sufficient to attract and retain them, taking into provisions provided in the Listing Rules for the purpose of account their experience and expertise.
Annual bonus for making such an award, or to utilise any other incentive plan other employees is calculated as a percentage of adjusted operated by the Group.
The profit pool is then shared between eligible scheme members.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the From 2018, selected employees may be invited to participate Group, any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line in Alfas LTIP to aid retention and motivation.
Additionally, UK with the original terms and conditions as long as these do not employees are eligible to participate in the SIP, on equal terms, cause a material conflict with the Remuneration Policy.
If an in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
It is intended that Executive Director is appointed following an acquisition of, or in the US, Alfa intends to set up an Employee Stock Purchase merger with, another Company, legacy terms and conditions Plan ESPP whereby US participating employees can purchase that are of higher value than provided in the Policy would Company shares at a discounted price.
The ESPP is a new share normally be honoured.
plan for Alfa and shareholders will be asked to approve it at the Termination of office policy 2018 AGM.
Pension arrangements are standard across the UK If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any workforce and comply with local requirements for those compensation payable will be determined by reference to the working outside the UK.
terms of the service contract in force at the time.
As variable pay awards are not contractual, treatment of these awards Executive Directors service contracts is determined by the relevant rules.
The Committee may Each of the Executive Directors entered into new service structure any compensation payments beyond the contracts that were effective from 15 May 2017.
Each is a contractual notice provisions in the contract in such a way rolling contract terminable by either party on six months as it deems appropriate.
notice in the case of the Executive Chairman and by either party on 12 months notice for the CEO and CFO.
Each The Company may at its discretion make termination Executive Director receives life insurance, the benefit of which payments in lieu of notice calculated only on base salary.
amounts to a maximum of four times basic annual salary.
Each The service agreements for the CEO and CFO allow for garden Executive Director is entitled to reimbursement of reasonable leave during any notice period.
expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
There is no entitlement to a bonus in any year.
The Committee Each Executive Director will be entitled to receive a payment retains discretion to award bonuses for leavers taking into equal to his or her gross annual salary less any payment in lieu account the circumstances of departure.
Any bonus would of notice in the event that there is a change of control of the normally be subject to performance, deferral and time proCompany and the Directors employment is terminated within rating as appropriate.
Although the Committee reserves the one month of the change of control.
The service contracts for right to change their approach if necessary, the usual approach Executive Directors make no provision for termination will be as follows: payments, other than for payment in lieu of salary.
any deferred bonus awards will lapse if the Executive Director Recruitment Policy resigns, has breached a term of his or her employment or The Committee will seek to align a new Executive Directors service contract or has been summarily dismissed: remuneration package to the Companys Remuneration Policy if the Executive Director dies, any outstanding awards will as set out above.
In determining remuneration for a new vest at the time of death: and Executive Director, the Committee will consider all relevant factors, including the requirements of the role, the external in any other circumstances, awards will vest at the normal market and internal relativities, while ensuring it does not pay vesting date.
In all circumstances, the Committee has the more than is necessary to appoint the preferred candidate.
discretion to disapply pro-rating and accelerate vesting if it Benefits will be limited to those outlined in the Remuneration believes it appropriate and in the interests of the Company.
Policy, with relocation assistance provided where appropriate.
Treatment of LTIP awards is governed by the plan rules.
Awards under the LTIP rules and or CSOP rules that may be If an Executive Director is designated as a good leaver any awarded to a new Executive Director will be limited to 200% outstanding LTIP awards will normally be pro-rated to reflect of salary and bonus limited to 150% of salary.
Within these the portion of the vesting period that has elapsed at the time limits, the Committee may include any element included the Executive Director leaves and will normally vest based on within the approved policy, or any other element which the performance to the end of the original performance period.
Committee considers is appropriate given the particular Good leaver means an Executive Director who ceases to be circumstances.
The Committee may buy out remuneration a a Director or employee of a Group company as a result of: new hire has had to forfeit on joining the Group if it considers the cost can be justified and is in the best interests of the ill health, injury or disability: Company.
Any such buyout would be in addition to the limits a transfer of the undertaking or part undertaking in set out previously.
Any such buyout awards will be of which the participant is employed to a person who is comparable commercial value and reflect as closely as not a Group company: practicable the form and structure of the forfeited awards, the company in which the participant is employed ceasing to be under the control of the Company: or 74 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information such other reason as the Committee may in its discretion Change of Control policy approve provided that this may not in any circumstances The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate include a Bad Leaver.
Bad Leaver means an Executive the bonus based on the proportion of the year worked.
The Director ceasing to be a Director or employee of a Group Committees intention is that it will pro-rate the bonus for company in circumstances where the employing company is time.
The Committee anticipates it would use its discretion to entitled to dismiss him or her without notice, save in the case not pro-rate only where there is an exceptional business case, of long-term sick leave.
which would be explained in full to shareholders.
In the event of death, awards will normally vest early taking The rules of the LTIP plan provide that the number of shares into account the Committees assessment of performance that vest shall be determined by the Committee, taking into against the performance conditions to the date of death and, account the extent to which any performance conditions have unless the Committee determines otherwise, the pro-rating been satisfied and, unless the Committee determines as described above.
In any other circumstances, any unvested otherwise, pro-rating to reflect the period from the start of LTIP awards will lapse.
In all circumstances, the Committee has the performance period to the date of the change of control.
the discretion to disapply pro-rating and accelerate vesting if Where an award is in the form of an option, this will then be it believes it appropriate and in the interests of the Company.
exercisable for a period of one month and will then lapse.
The rules also provide for awards to be exchanged for equivalent Treatment of CSOP awards is governed by the plan rules.
If an awards which relate to shares in a different company.
Executive Director ceases to hold any office or employment with a Group company by reason of: The CSOP rules provide that the number of shares that vest shall be determined by the Committee, taking into account ill health, injury or disability evidenced to the satisfaction the extent to which any performance conditions have been of the Committee : or satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a subsidiary ceasing to be under the control of the Company, pro-rating to reflect the period from the start of the or a business or part of a business being transferred to a performance period to the date of the change of control.
person who is neither an Associated Company nor a The option will then be exercisable for a period of one month company of which the Company has control: or and will then lapse.
The rules also provide for awards to be a relevant transfer within the meaning of the Transfer of exchanged for equivalent awards which relate to shares in a Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations different company.
2006 : or Other considerations such other reason as the Committee may in its discretion In making remuneration decisions, the Committee takes into approve: account the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, although employees were not formally consulted prior to the extent an option has not yet fully vested at the date of to setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
cessation, the Committee will determine the number of shares Employees within the Group receive base salary, benefits, which vest based on the proportion of the vesting period during pension and an annual bonus subject to appropriate eligibility which the Executive Director was employed by the Group.
The terms and value of these elements vary based The Committee may also take into account any performance on seniority.
The Committee understands the importance of conditions attached to the award.
The option may be exercised listening to the views of the Companys shareholders.
The at any time in the six months after the Committee has made its Committee is open to listening to the views of our determination, after which it will lapse.
shareholders and engaging in ongoing dialogue with them on In the case of an option which has vested, the option may executive remuneration matters.
The Committee also takes be exercised at any time in the six months after the date of full account of the guidelines of investor bodies and cessation, after which it will lapse.
If the Executive Director shareholder views in determining the remuneration dies, the six month period referred to above is extended to arrangements in operation within the Group.
In any other circumstances, any CSOP awards External appointments will lapse unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In all Executive Directors may hold external directorships if the circumstances, the Committee has the discretion to disapply Board determines that such appointments do not cause any pro-rating and accelerate vesting if it believes it appropriate conflict of interest.
Where such appointments are approved and in the interests of the Company.
and held, it is a matter for the Board to agree whether fees paid in respect of the appointment are retained by the individual or paid to the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 75 Directors Remuneration Policy continued These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual Illustrations of the application outcomes may differ from those shown.
of the Remuneration Policy Our remuneration arrangements have been designed to Executive Chairman ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term Minimum 100% 432,211 performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable On-target 61% 39% 713,047 shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different Maximum 43% 57% 993,883 performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate Fixed in the context of the performance delivered and the value Bonus Chief Executive Officer added for shareholders.
LTIP The charts opposite illustrate the remuneration that would Minimum 100% 349,478 be paid to each of the Executive Directors, for the financial On-target 59% 41% 590,912 year 2018, under three different performance scenarios: Maximum 42% 58% 832,346 i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been split to show fixed remuneration, Fixed bonus and LTIP.
On target awards have been calculated with Bonus Chief Financial Officer a bonus award of half the maximum and an LTIP award of 25% LTIP maximum, consistent with threshold achievement against the Minimum 100% 242,000 performance conditions.
Benefits and pension provision is On-target 52% 30% 18% 462,000 based on the levels reported in the Annual Report on Maximum 29% 32% 39% 847,000 Remuneration on page 77.
The projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
Fixed Bonus Shareholders should note the figures take account of the fact LTIP that the Executive Chairman and the CEO have waived LTIP awards for 2018.
Although the Executive Chairman and the CEO waived any eligibility for a bonus in 2017, an award has been included in the scenarios for 2018.
Non-Executive Director remuneration Element of Maximum Link to Company Strategy Operation Remuneration opportunity Non-Executive Fees are set at a level to The fees paid to the Non-Executive Fee levels are set by reference Director fees reflect the amount of time Directors are determined by the to Non-Executive Director fees and level of involvement Board as a whole.
at companies of similar size and required in order to carry out complexity and general increases Additional fees are payable for acting their duties as members of for salaried employees within as Senior Independent Director and the Board and its committees, the Company.
as Chair of the Boards Audit and Risk and to attract and retain Committee and Remuneration Non-Executive Directors Committee.
of the highest calibre with relevant commercial and other experience.
Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors The appointments of each of the Non-Executive Directors are for a fixed term of three years, commencing on 5 May 2017 for Richard Longdon and Robin Taylor and 15 May 2017 for Karen Slatford and subject to annual re-election by the Company at the AGM.
76 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual Report on Remuneration The Annual Report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy of the Company has been applied since Admission and how the Committee intends to apply the policy going forward.
An advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the AGM.
A Audited section of the Remuneration Report Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors The following tables set out the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors in the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 respectively.
It should be noted that remuneration is only included from the point the Director was appointed to a director role.
For the purpose of the comparison, the table shows the remuneration of Andrew Page and Andrew Denton as they were Directors of Alfa Financial Software Group Limited prior to appointment as Directors of the Company.
The following table shows the aggregate emoluments in the year ended 31 December 2017: Salary and Annual Long-term 1 2 3 4 5 000s fees Benefits bonus incentives Pension Total Executive Andrew Page 374 58 432 Andrew Denton 322 28 350 6 Vivienne Maclachlan 146 4 71 15 236 Non-Executive 7 Richard Longdon 43 43 8 Karen Slatford 43 43 7 Robin Taylor 43 43 The following table shows the aggregate emoluments in the year ended 31 December 2016: Salary and Annual Long-term 1 2 3 4 5 000s fees Benefits bonus incentives Pension Total Executive Andrew Page 374 14 388 Andrew Denton 322 15 337 1 Annual s alary and fees corresponds to the amount received during the relevant financial year, either as base salary for executives or fees for non-executives.
2 Bene fits corresponds to the taxable value of benefits received during the relevant financial year and principally includes company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
3 Annual b onus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the relevant financial year.
Details of how this was calculated are set out overleaf.
The Executive Chairman and the CEO have waived any eligibility for a bonus in 2017.
4 L ong-term incentives corresponds to the amount earned by the Executive Directors in respect of the relevant financial year.
No long-term incentive awards were made in respect of the 2017 performance year.
5 P ension corresponds to the amount contributed to defined contribution pension plans.
The CFO receives a Company pension contribution worth 10% of her salary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 77 Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2017 Annual bonus The 2017 annual bonus performance measures were selected to reflect Alfas annual and long-term objectives and reflect financial and strategic priorities, as appropriate.
Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account a range of reference points including the strategic plan and broker forecasts, as well as the Groups strategic priorities and the external context.
In respect of the annual bonus, the following measures have been agreed: revenue for the year: Adjusted EBIT margin, being operating profit excluding certain non-recurring or non-cash exceptional items, such as IPO related expenses and pre IPO share based payment expenses, as a ratio of revenue: free Cash Flow Conversion being cash flow generated from operations after deducting the settlement of derivative financial instruments and margin calls and capital expenditures as a percentage of Adjusted EBIT, as defined above: and staff retention, calculated over a rolling 12 month period.
The table below shows the bonus payout relating to each measure.
Measure Actual % of maximum Vivienne Maclachlan Revenue 87.8m 52% 34,320 Adjusted Earnings 47% 30% 19,800 Free Cash Flow Conversion 69% 0% 0 Staff Retention 95% 100% 16,500 Total 70,620 Statement of Directors shareholding and scheme interests audited information Shareholding Shares Interests in share incentive Interests in share incentive as a % of salary owned outright at schemes without schemes with 1 target % achieved 31 December 2017 performance conditions performance conditions Andrew Page Over 200% 181,224,631 Andrew Denton Over 200% 16,421,018 Vivienne Maclachlan 0% Richard Longdon n a 6,153 Karen Slatford n a 12,307 Robin Taylor n a 6,153 1 calculated as the base salary, absolute number of shares held as at 31 December 2017 by the share price at 29 December 2017.
Whilst Andrew Page and Andrew Denton have significant shareholdings in the Company, the Remuneration Committee wishes to ensure that a shareholding guideline is in place to cater for Vivienne Maclachlan and future Executive Directors who may not hold shares.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines to encourage Executive Directors to build or maintain as appropriate a shareholding in the Company excluding shares held conditionally under any incentive arrangements.
The required shareholding will be 200% of base salary on a gross basis.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
Payments to past Directors There were no payments made to past Directors during the year.
78 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information B Unaudited section of the Remuneration Report External appointments Executive Directors are allowed to accept one appointment outside the Company, with the prior approval of the Board.
Any fees may be retained by the Director, although this is at the discretion of the Board.
During 2017 and at the date of this report, none of the Executive Directors hold external appointments for which they receive a fee.
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors The fees were agreed on appointment of the Non-Executive Directors in May 2017.
A summary of current fees is shown below: Senior Audit and Remuneration Independent 000s Basic fees Risk Chair Chair Director Richard Longdon 55 10 Karen Slatford 55 10 Robin Taylor 55 10 There is no additional fee payable to the Chair of the Nomination Committee.
All the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
Appointment is terminable on written notice.
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors provide that no compensation is payable upon termination of employment.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Details of the appointment terms of the Non-Executive Directors are as follows: Start of Expiry of current term current term Richard Longdon 5 May 2017 4 May 2020 Karen Slatford 15 May 2017 14 May 2020 Robin Taylor 5 May 2017 4 May 2020 Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
The graph shows the total shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member since the IPO.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Companys shares started conditional trading on 26 May 2017 and therefore only has a listed share price from this date to 31 December 2017.
Total Shareholder Return For the financial year ending 31 December 2017 120 Alfa Systems 115 110 105 100 FTSE 250 Index 95 90 85 80 26 May 2017 31 December 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 79 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Percentage change in CEO remuneration compared with employees The table below shows the average increase in each component between the CEO and the average employee in the Company from 2016 to 2017: % change in % change in % change in base salary bonus earned benefits 2016-2017 2016-2017 2016-2017 CEO 0% 0% 87% Alfa employees 2% 33% 11% Relative importance of spend on pay The following table illustrates Alfas spend on pay for all employees in the Group in the years presented compared to distributions made to shareholders since Admission of the Company, 1 June 2017, to 31 December 2017.
000s 2017 2016 % change Employee costs note 6 to the consolidated financial statements 000s 35,598 43,819 19% Employee costs excluding pre-IPO share based payments note 6 to the consolidated financial statements 000s 31,198 27,619 13% Average number of employees note 6 to the consolidated financial statements 301 246 22% Revenue consolidated income statement 000s 87,777 73,280 20% Adjusted EBIT note 4 to the consolidated financial statements 000s 41,229 32,789 26% Shareholder distributions dividends paid post IPO 000s nil n a n a Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 Executive Director remuneration The table below shows the salaries for the Executive Directors as at 1 January 2018 in comparison to base salary at 1 June 2017: 000s 1 January 2018 1 June 2017 % change Andrew Page 374 374 Andrew Denton 322 322 Vivienne Maclachlan 220 220 The CFO will continue to receive a pension contribution of up to 10% of base salary.
The Executive Chairman and CEO have waived any entitlement to pension benefits.
Salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed each year taking into account the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
No increases to salaries are proposed for 2018.
Annual bonus and LTIP performance measures are selected annually to reflect Alfas annual and long-term objectives and reflect financial and strategic priorities, as appropriate.
In respect of the annual bonus, the following measures have been agreed: Revenue for the year 40% of bonus : Adjusted Earnings before Interest and Tax Margin, being operating profit excluding certain non-recurring or non-cash exceptional items, such as IPO related expenses and pre IPO share based payment expenses, as a ratio of revenue 40% of bonus : Free Cash Flow Conversion being cash flow generated from operations after deducting the settlement of derivative financial instruments and margin calls and capital expenditures as a percentage of adjusted EBIT, as defined above 10% of bonus : and Staff Retention, turnover calculated over a rolling 12 month period 10% of bonus.
Failure to meet a minimum percentage of the target will result in no bonus being awarded for that element.
Achieving a maximum percentage of target will result in the maximum bonus being awarded under the formula, although as described earlier, the final determination is made by the Committee talking all available factors into account.
80 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The Committee has agreed the following measures for the LTIP, with an equal weighting applied to each measure: Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR Earnings Per Share EPS Vesting of the awards is also subject to the share price at the end of the performance period being higher than the IPO price of 325p.
The comparator group for the TSR is the FTSE250, excluding investment trusts.
Median performance over the 3 year performance period will result in 25% vesting, with 100% vesting if upper quartile performance is achieved.
The EPS performance conditions are being finalised and details will be included in the RNS announcing the awards.
The Executive Chairman and CEO have waived any eligibility to an LTIP award in 2018.
2018 Non-Executive Director remuneration Following the annual review of Non-Executive Director fees, it was determined that the fees will remain at the following level: 000s Base fee 55 Additional fee for chairing a committee 10 Fee for the Senior Independent Director including chairing committees 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 81
