STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual bonus plan As described in the strategic report, GKN made progress in 2017, notably strong growth in management sales.
Excluding the impact of the North American Balance Sheet Review, management trading profit was slightly ahead of 2016 and earnings per share EPS increased from 31.0 pence to 31.7 pence.
However, when taking into account the impact of the Review, trading profit before tax and EPS both declined year on year.
In this context, Nigel Stein waived his right to a bonus payment.
Long-term incentive plan The 2015 SEP award lapsed as we did not achieve the very challenging annual compound growth rate target of at least 6% in management EPS over the three-year performance period to 2017.
Dear Shareholder Board changes The Committee considered the leaving arrangements for Nigel Stein, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for 2017.
Adam Walker and Kevin Cummings during the year.
It also considered the remuneration of Anne Stevens and Jos Sclater on their appointment Looking back remuneration outcomes in 2017 as Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively.
The approach we took in relation to these matters is in line with our remuneration policy and is detailed in the report.
Base salaries Base salary increases for executive Directors in July 2017 ranged Looking forward proposed changes in 2018 from 2.1% to 2.9% taking into account performance and increases awarded elsewhere in the Group.
The average global increase for all Our remuneration policy and framework are key ingredients in driving employees was 3.3%.
the long-term success of the Group.
They are vital both for facilitating Annual bonus the attraction and retention of high calibre individuals who can manage the Group successfully and for ensuring that executives are Payouts based on Group and divisional performance against profit, appropriately incentivised and remunerated for their performance cash and strategic measures, underpinned by quality of earnings, and that of the Group as a whole.
Principles Long-term incentives Our policy continues to be designed around three key principles which The 2015 Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP core award, which required have underpinned our executive remuneration framework for a number of years: compound annual EPS growth of at least 6%, lapsed along with the associated sustainability award.
Alignment to GKN strategy and performance Summary A significant element of executive remuneration is variable and linked to Group performance.
Our annual bonus plan rewards the delivery These modest outcomes demonstrate the strong tie between of a balanced selection of financial and strategic measures while performance and reward in our remuneration policy and long-term incentives are designed to focus executives on our strategic scheme design.
objective of delivering sustainable long-term earnings growth.
Aligning executives with shareholders A substantial proportion of the remuneration package is delivered in shares through the Deferred Bonus Plan and the SEP.
This supports our shareholding requirement and creates a culture of share ownership, long-term stewardship and alignment with our shareholders.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued Paying within the competitive range In setting quantum, we consider remuneration practices in comparable businesses to ensure remuneration remains within the competitive range, so as to properly mitigate the risks of executive turnover, without paying more than is necessary.
We also consider the remuneration of executive Directors in the context of other executives and employees throughout the Group.
Project Boost For 2018, our approach to implementing our remuneration policy remains broadly unchanged.
However, the Committee is currently considering the structure of a one-off incentive plan to reinforce the delivery of Project Boost over the next three years.
Project Boost is key to maximising shareholder value through the improvement of cash flow and margin, and it is therefore crucial that management is incentivised appropriately to deliver the project.
It is intended that participation in this incentive plan would apply to executive Directors and all management including plant managers.
The implementation of any new plan will require our remuneration policy to be amended and major shareholders will be consulted in due course.
Professor Richard Parry-Jones CBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2018 2017 key activities Salary and annual incentive plan Considered and approved STVRS payout for 2016 and set targets for 2017.
Approved salary review proposals for executive Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Executive Committee and reviewed fees for the Chairman.
Long-term incentive arrangements Determined vesting levels for 2014 SEP awards.
Policy and remuneration framework Consulted with shareholders on proposed changes to our remuneration policy to be put before the AGM.
Adopted a revised policy relating to the payment of non-UK executive Directors in their home currency, to align with the policy adopted by the Company for employees generally.
Compliance and governance Considered and reviewed practices and changes to corporate governance environment with regard to remuneration arrangements.
Management changes Considered and approved remuneration arrangements for incoming and departing Directors, and as a result of changes in responsibilities.
Considered the remuneration arrangements for changes at senior executive level.
74 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
