STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Directors remuneration policy The Companys full policy on directors remuneration was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and can be found on the Companys website at www.
We have included sections of the remuneration policy below that we consider would be most helpful for shareholders to see in the context of the annual report on remuneration set out in this report.
The policy applies for three years from May 2017.
Should any changes be required to the policy mid-cycle, these will be subject to a reasoned rationale and consultation with major shareholders before being submitted to shareholders for approval.
Future policy table Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To provide a market competitive salary to recruit and retain individuals None.
with the necessary knowledge, skills and experience to deliver the Maximum opportunity Groups strategic objectives.
Maximum annual increases will be broadly in line with those for Operation other salaried UK employees in the normal course of business.
Normally reviewed annually with any increase generally taking effect Higher increases may be appropriate to reflect a significant change from 1 July.
Salary increases will normally be in line with the average in a Directors role or responsibilities, or if in shareholders interests increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
a Director was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary initially and their subsequent performance in the role warrants an Salaries may be set and or paid in GBP or any other currency, to reflect above-average salary increase.
the circumstances of the individual Director.
Changes Assessment Revised definition of Maximum opportunity.
Key factors taken into account include individual experience, scope of the role, responsibility and performance, Group profitability, prevailing market conditions and pay awards in the Group generally.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To provide benefits consistent with the scope and location of the role.
Operation Maximum opportunity Benefits principally include car and fuel allowance, life assurance, Car and fuel allowances will not increase by more than 15% in any disability and healthcare benefits.
Other benefits may be provided at the discretion of the Committee Maximum life assurance is 4x salary for defined benefit members and based on individual circumstances and business requirements, such 8x salary for defined contribution members.
as appropriate relocation and expatriate allowances and support.
Some benefits such as healthcare insurance are provided through Benefits are provided on a grossed up basis where appropriate.
third parties and therefore the cost to the Company may vary from year to year.
Assessment Relocation and expatriate allowances, where granted, are set at a level Benefits are consistent with those provided to senior managers.
which the Committee considers appropriate based on market practice They are set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate and individual circumstances.
and are kept under review.
com 89 Directors remuneration report continued Pension Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures None.
To provide appropriate retirement benefits and assist with recruitment and retention.
Maximum opportunity The maximum total contribution into the defined contribution section Operation for external appointments and or a cash allowance in lieu is 25% of base salary.
If Directors Since 1 January 2013, benefits have been provided by means of continue to accrue benefits under the defined benefit section of the a cash allowance and or payment into the defined contribution Scheme, they will be eligible for a contribution into the defined section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme the Scheme.
contribution section and or a cash allowance in lieu worth 25% of the difference between pensionable salary and base salary.
Operation for current Directors and internal appointments Changes Benefits may be provided through the defined contribution or legacy defined benefit sections of the Scheme, or as a cash allowance.
Maximum retirement benefit for Directors participating in legacy For Directors subject to legacy arrangements under the defined arrangements reduced from 40% to 25% of the reference salary used benefit scheme, the pension due under these arrangements is up for this calculation, and inclusion of benefits for non-UK Directors.
to two-thirds pensionable salary calculated on a career average basis for service from 1 September 2007.
The closure of the Companys UK defined benefit section is currently subject to consultation: should it be closed, Phil Swash will receive pension benefits through a cash allowance and or as a payment into the defined contribution section of the Scheme.
For non-UK appointments, benefits will be provided in accordance with local practice and the maximum opportunity set out in this policy.
Benefits for US nationals will be provided through a retirement benefit allowance or 401 k retirement savings plan.
The specific arrangements for individual Directors are set out in the relevant section of the annual report on remuneration.
Annual bonus STVRS Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To drive and reward achievement of short-term financial and strategic Appropriate targets are set each year which align with the specific measures which support long-term strategic objectives.
business objectives for that year.
Targets are normally applied to a combination of financial and strategic measures relating to Group Operation and, where appropriate, divisional performance.
A significant proportion Award levels and performance measures including the proportion of the total award is based on financial measures.
relating to strategic measures and weightings are reviewed annually Payments range between 0 to 150% of base salary with 75% of base to ensure alignment with the Groups financial and long-term salary payable for achievement of on-target performance.
Maximum opportunity A total of 33% of the bonus payment is deferred into shares under the DBP: the balance is paid in cash.
Maximum is 150% of base salary.
Assessment Changes Performance is measured over one financial year.
The level of payment Maximum increased from 110% to 150% of base salary.
Amount is determined by the Committee after the year end based on deferred into shares changed from any payment in excess of 65% performance against targets.
of base salary to a mandatory deferral of 33% of any payment earned.
Malus and clawback may be applied as set out in note 2 on page 92.
90 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures A total of 33% of any STVRS payment is deferred into shares to No additional performance measures beyond those required for assist with retention of key executives and to align their interests STVRS see previous page.
Release is subject to continued employment.
Operation Maximum opportunity DBP awards are released at the end of a two-year deferral period.
No additional opportunity above the STVRS maximum.
Awards generally lapse in the event of resignation during the deferral period.
Changes Change to amount deferred into shares see changes for STVRS on On release, a cash amount is paid equivalent to the aggregate previous page.
dividends per share paid during the deferral period.
Malus provisions will be applied as set out in note 2 on page 92.
Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures To encourage and reward sustained earnings performance in line Measured over a three-year period based on a stretching EPS growth with the Groups growth strategy and its objective of creating target.
The Committee retains flexibility to determine at the time of long-term shareholder value.
making an award that additional elements in relation to long-term financial and strategic measures may be introduced subject to To assist with retention of key executives.
a maximum weighting of 20% of the maximum opportunity.
Operation While stretching, targets under the SEP are designed to discourage SEP awards are normally granted annually with vesting based on inappropriate risk taking.
A holding period of two years Maximum opportunity is applied for any vested awards.
Maximum award level is 200% of base salary or 200% of a notional The value of dividends accrued on vested shares from date of grant UK salary for non-UK executive Directors.
to date of release is delivered in additional shares or cash at the discretion of the Committee.
Changes The three-year core award and two-year sustainability award have The Committee reviews the award levels annually and keeps been simplified to a single award with a three-year performance period performance targets under review to ensure continued alignment and additional two-year post-vesting holding period.
introduce additional performance measures if appropriate.
Vesting at threshold is 25% rising to a maximum of 100%.
All vested shares to be retained net of tax until shareholding requirement is met.
Malus and clawback provisions will be applied as set out in note 2 on page 92.
Assessment In considering the extent to which an award has vested, the Committee assesses both the extent to which the EPS target has been met and the quality of earnings.
The Committee must be satisfied that the level of vesting is justified by the quality of earnings and EPS performance against shareholder expectations by taking into account Group return on invested capital ROIC against internal projections, new investment performance and cost of capital: shareholder value creation: and whether EPS has grown in absolute terms during the performance period.
Having considered these factors and the underlying financial performance of the Company, the Committee can reduce the level of SEP vesting if it feels it is justified in doing so.
com 91 Directors remuneration report continued Notes to future policy table 1.
Malus and clawback The Committee may exercise discretion as set out below.
Any discretion Malus and clawback provisions are operated as follows.
will be exercised diligently and in the interests of shareholders.
Clawback provisions allow the Company to recover the value of cash Pension: to provide alternative arrangements on terms no more or vested shares in the event of a material misstatement in GKN plcs favourable if it considers it to be in the interests of the Company.
accounts, gross misconduct or a serious failure to comply with our Code of Conduct.
These provisions apply for a period of two years from STVRS: to i alter targets to reflect changed circumstances such as the date any STVRS payment is made or the date shares are released material changes in accounting standards or changes in the Groups under the SEP. structure: ii reduce payments based on its assessment of underlying performance of the Group, including health and safety performance: Malus provisions allow the Company to reduce a cash payment or and iii make a payment wholly in cash in certain circumstances share award in full or in part in the event of a failure of risk management such as to a departing Director.
or major reputational damage to GKN.
It also includes the clawback provisions set out above.
These provisions apply to awards under SEP: to adjust and or set different performance measures and the DBP and SEP. targets if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, or a change 3.
Legacy arrangements in prevailing market conditions which causes the Committee The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments to determine that the measures or targets are no longer appropriate and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line and that amendment is required to achieve their original purpose.
with the policy set out above where the payment is made pursuant to terms that were agreed i before the policy came into effect or Exceptional circumstances: flexibility to exercise discretion in ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the genuinely unforeseen and exceptional circumstances not referred to Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in this policy.
If this should happen, the Committee will implement the in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
arrangements within the boundaries of the policy taking a reasonable For these purposes, payments include the satisfaction of awards of and appropriate position had such discretion been included and it variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the being in the interests of shareholders.
Before doing so, the Committee terms of the payment were agreed at the time the award was granted.
will consult with major shareholders and explain the exercise of this type of discretion in the following years annual report on remuneration.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Assessment To provide fees within a market-competitive range to recruit and Key factors taken into account when reviewing fees include scope of the retain individuals with the necessary experience and ability to role, time commitment, prevailing market conditions and pay awards in make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
Operation Maximum opportunity Fees are reviewed annually and paid in cash.
Set at a level which reflects the contribution and commitment required of them, taking into account fee levels in other companies of similar size The Chairman is paid a single consolidated fee.
Non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee plus an additional fee Overall, the fees paid to non-executive Directors will remain within the for any chairmanship of Board committees and for the role of Senior limit stated in the articles of association, currently 1 million per annum.
Changes The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not receive benefits Fees to be reviewed annually to bring them in line with the salary in kind nor do they participate in the Groups shortand long-term review for Group employees and executive Directors.
incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme.
Their expenses for travel to and from Board meetings and Board events are reimbursed by the Company.
92 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
