Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report A remuneration philosophyaligned to long-termvalue creation The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent in matters of remuneration, and we hope that this report continues this approach Annual Statement 2018 Remuneration Policy Dear Shareholders Cineworlds current Remuneration Policy the Policy was As Chair of Cineworlds Remuneration Committee the approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2017 and was based Committee, I am pleased to present our Remuneration onthe profile of Cineworld before the acquisition of Regal.
Reportfor the year to 31 December 2017, including a revised Assuch, the Committee considered that it was an appropriate Remuneration Policy for which we will be seeking your time to review the Policy and, following a detailed analysis approval at our Annual General Meeting in May 2018. ofourcurrent arrangements, taking into account developing market practice, feedback received from shareholders, and 2017 Performance and Remuneration thetransformational nature of the Regal transaction, will be The Group delivered a successful year of trading in 2017 with putting a new Policy forward for shareholderapproval at our total revenue increasing 11.6% to 890.7m 2016: 797.8m, AGM this year.
The decisions in relation to executive remuneration outcomes The Committee believes it is appropriate to amend the made by the Committee were taken in the context of this Remuneration Policy for the following key reasons: performance.
Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors, Scale and complexity of the new business The acquisition which are based on a matrix of Group Adjusted EBITDA of Regal is anticipated to move the Group from a performance against budget and the achievement of stretching multinational operation onto a truly global platform.
Given individual objectives, paid out at the level of 78.6%, 78.6% and the significant impact the deal will have on the scale and 44.4% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer CEO, complexity of the Group, the Committee believes it is Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO respectively.
appropriate that the remuneration structure incentivises As EPS performance targets for the PSP were reached in full management to achieve the expected combined growth over the three year period 20152017, 100% of the awards story and cost savings.
Focus on long-term performance The proposed changes The Company receives advice in relation to the Remuneration to the Policy are weighted towards the variable elements of Policy and its implementation in respect of the Chairman, the package, albeit we are also proposing to make changes Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior to the base salaries to reflect the enlarged scope of the roles.
In September 2017, the Committee appointed Delivery of synergies The bonus arrangements will be linked PwC as advisors to the Committee following a competitive to the effective integration of Regal into the Group and the selection process, replacing Willis Towers Watson.
Further synergies which are expected to be delivered as a result.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Activities over the Year The Remuneration Committee met four times during 2017 and its key activities were as follows: February March May September 2017 2017 2017 2017 Overall remuneration Considering the remuneration arrangements across the Group Determining the salary increases to be awarded to Executive Directors Annual bonus Deciding the targets for the annual bonus scheme Determining bonus payments to be awarded LTIP Making awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP Approving vesting of awards under the PSP and the 2010 Company Share Option Plan CSOP Governance Reviewing the 2017 AGM voting figures and considering the views of shareholders Starting preparation of this Directors Remuneration Report Reviewing the Committees external, independent advisor Summary of Changes This Annual Statement, together with an At a Glance section.
Having carefully reviewed our base salary and incentive The proposed Policy that is being put forward for approval arrangements, the Committee has decided to make the by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
following salary changes and adjustments to the Policy: The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out Salary increases from 577,844 to 630,000 for the CEO, payments made to the Directors and details the link from 393,984 to 505,000 for the Deputy CEO and from between Company performance and remuneration for the 290,000 to 395,000 for the CFO.
The proposed base 2017 financial year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration salaries reflect the substantial increase in the scale and together with this statement is subject to an advisory complexity of the Group as a result of the Regal acquisition shareholder vote at the AGM on 16 May 2018. and the pursuant responsibilities of the Executive Directors, The Committee has always aimed to be clear and transparent as well as the CFOs progression in role since his in matters of remuneration, and we hope that this report appointment last year.
Should you have any queries or Increase in the maximum annual bonus potential to 150% of comments on this report, or more generally in relation to salary with any bonus earned above 100% of salary deferred theCompanys remuneration, then please do not hesitate into shares for a period of two years.
The majority of the tocontact me via the Company Secretary.
annual bonus will continue to be based on performance I hope that you find this report informative, and I look forward to against financial targets.
your continued support at the Companys AGM.
The Committee does not propose to increase the long-term incentive plan LTIP opportunity: however, it does intend to utilise the maximum opportunity of 200% of salary in future years.
The LTIP will continue to measure performance against stretching EPS growth targets over a three year period.
Dean Moore Chairman of the  This report has been prepared in accordance with the Large 15 March 2018 and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the UKLA Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report is split into three parts: 49 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued At a Glance Summary of Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 18 May 2017 95.6% of votes being cast in favour and became effective from that date.
The table below summarises the current Policy, how this was implemented in 2017, and the proposed changes to each element ofthe Policy for 2018.
The current Policy is detailed in the 2016 Annual Report, which can be found in the Investors section under Reports and Presentations on the Companys website.
Our strategy Provide the best cinema experience to give our customers a Be technological leaders in the industry to offer the latest choiceofhow to watch a movie, with a range of retail offerings, audioandvisual technology allunderpinned by the best customer service Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth plans Expand and enhance our estate toprovide consistent, high inanefficient and effective way quality, moderncinemas Element of reward Base salary and pensionbenefits Annual bonus LTIP Shareholding requirement Purpose To provide a core level of To incentivise the annual To encourage sustainable To provide alignment remuneration and market delivery of financial and profitability over a period between Executive competitive benefits to operational targets.
of time aligned to the Directors and enable the Group to overall objective of shareholders.
attract and retain skilled, achieving sustainable high-calibre executives growth.
Key features Implementation of Planned changes Link to of Policy Policy in 2017 for 2018 strategy Base salary, Salaries may be adjusted Salaries for Executive Salaries for pension and any increase will Directors other than Executive andother ordinarily be in line with the CFO, due to his Directors will benefits those across theGroup.
appointment being in beincreased January 2017 were asfollows with Employer pension increased by 2.5% in effect from contribution up to 20% linewith the wider 28February 2018: of base salary.
workforce as follows with CEO Executives may opt out effect from 1July2017: 630,000 of the Group pension CEO 577,844 Deputy CEO scheme and instead Deputy CEO 393,984 505,000 receive a cash pension CFO allowance.
Market competitive No change to benefits including Pension contributions thepermitted provision of a company of20% were paid to the maximum pension car or car allowance, CEO and the Deputy contributions.
private mileage, life CEO and 14.8% to insurance, permanent theCFO.
health insurance and private medical insurance.
Annual Maximum opportunity Performance conditions Increase in bonus of100%of salary.
were approximately themaximum setasfollows: annualbonus Based on Adjusted opportunity to EBITDA and personal 80% based on 150% of salary, performance.
performance balanced with againstbudgeted Discretion to apply theintroduction Adjusted EBITDA.
of an element 20% based on ofdeferral.
individual performance The annual bonus against strategic will continue to be objectives.
based primarily No bonus payable if on financial aminimum threshold performance.
of90% of budgeted Any bonus earned Adjusted EBITDA is above 100% of notachieved.
salary will be Maximum of 110% deferred into ofbudgeted Adjusted shares for a period EBITDA and exceptional of two years.
50 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key features Implementation of Planned changes Link to of Policy Policy in 2017 for 2018 strategy LTIP Normal maximum Vesting linked to EPS Utilisation of opportunity equal to growth performance.
opportunity to 25% of the award will vest 200% of base Vesting subject toEPS at threshold performance.
growth performance 100% of the award overathree year The LTIP will willvest at stretch performance period and continue to performance.
reviewed annually to bebased on On vesting, participants ensure the targets are EPSgrowth will receive dividend sufficiently stretching performance.
equivalents in the form in light of both internal additional shares or andexternal performance acash sum.
Shareholding Each Executive Director Executive Directors are No change.
requirements is expected to build up expected to retain 50% a shareholding equal to ofany shares they acquire 150% of their base salary.
under the PSP or on exercise of options until such a holding has been built up.
Cineworld Maximum level Employees are eligible to No change.
Group isconsistent for acquire Cineworld shares Sharesave Executives and staff and at a discount of up to Scheme is in linewith the limit 20% of the market value under legislation at grant if they enter into currently 500 a three year savings permonth.
