66 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Consistent with best practice Performance orientated Salaries are intended to be set at Rewarding performance is a core part of ourethos.
About 77% of our permanent competitive, but not excessive, levels employees participate in a bonus plan and compared to peers and other companies over 400 employees receive regular share ofan equivalent size and complexity.
awards or share option grants.
There is potential for market competitive To reinforce the link between performance levels of total pay but only if stretching and pay, most employees are rewarded business targets are delivered.
forthe performance of their particular For our employees, we have a high degree attraction.
Only the senior executives the ofsimplicity in our pay model.
Executive Committee and their direct Widespread share ownership reports and employees of central functions Widespread share ownership is an integral are rewarded for the performance of the part of Merlins culture.
all-employee share plans that enable all of For senior executives, including the Executive our permanent employees to purchase a Directors, performance related pay, based Dear Shareholder stake in our Company.
on stretching short term and longer term This years Remuneration Report is split into These plans supplement the discretionary targets, forms a significant part of their three sections: share plans for senior executives Deferred potential pay packages.
Bonus Plan and PSP and the Company Statement from the Chairman of the Aligned to the long term success of the Company Share Option Plan CSOP for middle Remuneration Committee contains details Our pay structure encourages strong alignment management.
of our remuneration principles and of the between the interests of our senior executives key decisions reached by the Committee.
Performance in 2017 and the interests of our shareholders.
The Remuneration Report The financial and operating performance of contains the Directors Remuneration Policy Senior executives receive regular awards of Merlin in 2017 is set out on pages 6 to 49 in the Policy that was approved by a binding shares under the Performance Share Plan Strategic Report.
shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
This PSP which from 2018 are subject to the The Group delivered a solid performance, Policy remains effective for the coming year.
achievement of challenging EPS, ROCE and albeitheld back by the significant decline in our Annual Report on Remuneration contains strategic performance targets.
EPS and London attractions due to ongoing security details of pay received by Directors in ROCE are key performance indicators concerns, and extreme weather at peak trading 2017and full details of how we intend aligned to the Companys strategic priorities periods at our Gardaland theme park.
Good toimplement our pay policy during 2018. and the creation of value to shareholders.
progress was made with our new business TheAnnual Report on Remuneration Strategic performance targets are linked to development, with the new LEGOLAND park willbesubject to an advisory vote at the improvements in our productivity, new in Japan and six Midway attractions.
business development and customer thistogether with our focus on costs and satisfaction, which are central to our current Remuneration principles productivity, the Group reported revenue of strategicplan.
A series of key principles underpin the Merlin 1,594 million and generated an underlying The business continues to see many global remuneration structure: payments should be operating profit of 323 million for the 52 opportunities for the successful deployment based on results and performance: pay should weeks ended 30 December 2017. of capital and these measures are designed be aligned to the long term success of the to ensure that this is done in the most As a result of financial performance falling below Company and consistent with best practice: effective manner to generate sustainable the threshold for payment of profit related andwidespread share ownership should be long term returns.
bonus, no bonus will be paid to the CEO or encouraged.
For senior executives, there is greater CFO in relation to 2017 performance.
emphasis on rewards for delivery of longer The Performance Share Plan awards granted in term performance targets than short term April 2015 will partially vest on 2 April 2018. performance targets.
Details of the awards are set out on page 84 of Members of the Executive Committee are this report.
required to build up and retain a significant holding of Merlin shares.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 67 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Review of Remuneration Policy for 2018 Pay decisions for 2018 The Committee has reviewed the application of The proposed pay structure for the Executive the Remuneration Policy and concluded that Directors for 2018 is outlined on pages 77 to 79.
Key decisions made by the Committee in thestructure of the current approach to salary, relation to 2018 include: short term and long term incentives for the Executive Directors remains aligned to our The Committee considered the remuneration principles.
In light of this, no competitiveness of the Executive Directors amendments are proposed.
total remuneration packages during the year and concluded that they were positioned The Committee intends to review the current conservatively against pay levels in companies policy during 2018. of comparable size and complexity.
Executive I hope you will find this report to be clear and Director salaries will be increased in line with helpful in understanding our remuneration the wider UK employee population.
The practices and that you will be supportive of the Executive Directors remuneration packages resolution relating to remuneration at the AGM.
will be reviewed by the Committee in 2018.
As ever, the Committee welcomes any The Committee has agreed the same basic questions or comments from shareholders.
structure to the central bonus plan as 2017, with individual objectives for the Executive Charles Gurassa Directors appropriately reflecting Company Chairman of the Remuneration Committee priorities.
For the Executive Directors, 100% 28 February 2018 of bonus award depends on profit performance and of that 20% also depends on achievement against specific personal objectives.
The Committee has introduced a strategic performance condition into the PSP for the 2018 awards.
This condition will govern 20% of the 2018 PSP awards vesting and will operate alongside EPS and ROCE performance conditions which will each govern 40% of the awards vesting.
The range of financial targets have been set to reflect the current plan and performance expectations for the Company and current economic conditions.
In addition, for awards from April 2017 onwards a health and safety underpin, enabling the Committee to reduce the numbers of shares on vesting, is attached to all PSP awards.
Further details are set out on pages78 to 79.
68 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED POLICY REPORT This part of the Remuneration Report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy adopted in 2017 and applicable to payments made from 13 June 2017.
This policy was approved in 2017 by a vote in favour of 95.8%.
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Policy table The following table sets out details of each component of the Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide pay packages that will: Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
Attract high quality individuals to join us.
Encourage and support a high performance culture.
Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
Performance 1 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity conditions Fixed pay Base salary Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set for Executive None To appropriately recognise increase normally taking effect from Director base salaries.
Current Executive responsibilities and attract 1 Aprilalthough the Committee may Director salaries are set out in the Annual Report and retain talent by ensuring award increases at other times of the on Remuneration section of this Remuneration salaries are market competitive.
year if it considers it appropriate.
The review takes into consideration a Any annual increase in salaries is at the discretion number of factors, including but not of the Committee taking into account the factors limited to : stated in this table and the following principles: The individual Directors role, Salaries would typically be increased at a rate experience and performance.
consistent with the average salary increase Business performance.
inpercentage of salary terms for permanent Market data for comparable roles UK employees.
Larger increases may be considered Pay and conditions elsewhere in appropriate in certain circumstances theGroup.
including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity ofGroup.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typicalsalary.
Benefits Benefits are role specific and take into There is no overall maximum as the level of None To provide market competitive account local market practice.
benefits depends on the annual cost of providing benefits.
individual items in the relevant local market and Benefits currently include a company car the individuals specific role.
or car allowance, phone costs, income protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The Committee has discretion, in the event of the appointment of a Director based overseas or in appropriate circumstances, to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
Pension Current policy is for the Company to Executive Directors receive a contribution of up None To provide market competitive either contribute to the Group Pension to 25% of base salary to the Group Pension Plan retirement benefits.
Plan and or to provide a cash allowance and or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 69 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Performance 1 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity conditions Variable pay 2, 3 Annual bonus The Executive Directors are participants The maximum award that can be made under The bonus is based on To link reward to key business in the central bonus plan which is the central bonus plan is 150% of base salary.
performance assessed targets for the forthcoming year reviewed annually to ensure bonus over one year using Each year the Remuneration Committee and to individual contribution.
opportunity, performance measures and appropriate financial, determines the maximum bonus opportunity for targets are appropriate and supportive strategic and individual Additional alignment with individual Executive Directors within this limit.
performance shareholders interests through measures.
the operation of bonus deferral.
Two-thirds of an Executive Directors annual bonus is delivered in cash The majority of following the release of audited results thebonus will be and the remaining third is deferred into determined by an award over Company shares under measure s of Group The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred financial performance.
The selected Deferred awards are usually granted measure s for the in the form of conditional share relevant financial year awards or nil-cost options and may are set out in the also be settled in cash.
Annual Report on Deferred awards usually vest three Remuneration section years after award although may vest of this Remuneration early on leaving employment or on a Report.
change of control see later sections.
A sliding scale of An additional payment in the form of targets is set for cash or shares may be made in respect eachGroup financial of shares which vest under deferred measure with payout awards to reflect the value of dividends at zero for threshold which would have been paid on those financial performance shares during the vesting period this increasing to 50% for payment may assume that dividends meeting expectations had been reinvested in Company and 100% for shares on a cumulative basis.
maximum Bonus payments and deferred share performance.
awards will be subject to withholding The remainder of the or clawback at the Remuneration bonus will be based on Committees discretion during the financial, strategic or three year period following the award operational measures of the bonus in exceptional appropriate to the circumstances where the Committee individual Director.
finds that the Executive Director has The selected measures engaged in misconduct justifying for the relevant summary dismissal or there has been a financial year are set material misstatement of the financial out in the Annual accounts relating to the relevant Report on bonus year or any other error in Remuneration section calculation which has led to an of this Remuneration overpayment of bonus.
The Committee has wide-ranging Any bonus payout is discretion on the award and vesting of ultimately at the bonuses.
In particular the Committee has discretion of the discretion to amend the payout should Committee.
any formulaic output not reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance, including health and safety issues.
70 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Performance 1 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity conditions Performance Awards are usually granted annually under The maximum annual award permitted under the Vesting of PSP awards is 3, 4 Share Plan PSP the PSP to Executive Directors and other PSP is shares with a market value as determined usually dependent on, To link reward to key business selected senior executives.
by the Committee of 350% of salary.
but not limited to, targets for the longer term measures of Group Individual award levels and performance Each year the Remuneration Committee andto retain executives and earnings and return on conditions on which vesting will be determines the actual award level for individual thecreation of value for total investment with dependent are reviewed annually by the Executive Directors within this limit.
shareholders by rewarding the precise measures Remuneration Committee.
and weighting of the Awards may be granted as conditional measures determined awards of shares, nil-cost options or by the Committee forfeitable share awards or, if appropriate, ahead of each award.
These details are disclosed in the Awards normally vest at the end of a AnnualReport on period of at least three years following Remuneration section grant although may vest early on leaving of this Remuneration employment or on a change of control Report.
Performance will usually An additional payment in the form of cash be measured over a or shares may be made in respect of shares three-year performance which vest under PSP awards to reflect the period.
For achieving a value of dividends which would have been threshold level of paid on those shares during the vesting performance against a period this payment may assume that performance measure, dividends had been reinvested in Company no more than 25% of shares on a cumulative basis.
the portion of the PSP PSP awards will be subject to potential award determined by withholding or clawback during the five year that measure will vest.
period following the date of award in Vesting then increases exceptional circumstances of evidence on a sliding scale to coming to light of misconduct justifying 100% for achieving a summary dismissal or of a material stretching maximum misstatement of the financial accounts or an performance target.
error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
In the event of a material health and safety breach by the Group during the period between grant and vesting of an award, the Remuneration Committee may reduce the number of shares which would otherwise vest as a result of the EPS and ROCE performance conditions to ensure that the vesting outcome is appropriate.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 71 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Performance 1 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity conditions All Employee Share Plan Tax-approved monthly savings scheme Monthly saving limit of 500 or such other limit as The Sharesave scheme 3, 5 UK Sharesave Scheme facilitating the purchase of shares through may be approved from time to time by HMRC is structured in To create staff alignment with share options at a discounted exercise price under all savings contracts held by an individual.
accordance with HMRC the Group and promote a sense by all eligible UK employees.
requirements so has no of ownership.
performance conditions Executive Directors are eligible to but requires participate on the same basis as other participants to make employees.
regular savings into a savings contract.
Company Share Option Plan The CSOP permits grants of share options Annual awards of options over shares worth up to If CSOP awards were, 3 CSOP with an exercise price of not less than the 100% of salary at grant or, if the Remuneration in exceptional Executive Directors will only market value of a share as determined by Committee determines that special circumstances circumstances, granted receive CSOP awards in the Committee at the time of grant.
to an Executive exceptional circumstances.
Director, they would be Options are usually exercisable between subject to an Individuals who are promoted three and ten years following grant appropriate to the Board may have although may have a different exercise performance condition outstanding awards under period on leaving employment or on a as determined by the thisplan.
Options that are HMRC unapproved may, An individual promoted ifappropriate, be settled in cash or be to the Board may have net-settled.
outstanding CSOP awards granted prior to their promotion that have no performance conditions attached tothem.
Notes to the table: determines justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b eligible to participate in one of these schemes instead of the 1 The Committee may vary or waive any performance amend the terms of awards granted under the share schemes UK Sharesave Scheme.
The monthly contribution limit for the condition s if circumstances occur which cause it to referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant US Employee Stock Purchase Plan would be specified by the determine that the original condition s have ceased to be plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Remuneration Committee before each grant.
appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, Companys IPO Prospectus.
Share awards may be settled by 6 The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy than the the issue of new shares or by the transfer of existing shares.
payments and or payments for loss of office including original condition in its opinion.
The Committee may also In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Policy exercising any discretions available to it in connection with adjust the calculation of performance targets and vesting Report is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with outcomes for instance for material acquisitions, disposals or 5% of share capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to the policy set out above where the terms of the payment investments and events not foreseen at the time the targets discretionary employee share schemes and 10% of share were agreed i before the 2014 AGM the date the were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection of capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to all Companys first shareholder-approved Directors performance over the relevant period.
In the event that the employee share schemes.
Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the policy Committee were to make an adjustment of this sort, a full 4 Performance measures PSP.
The PSP performance set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the explanation would be provided in the next Remuneration measures are chosen to provide alignment with our longer payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Report.
term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were 2 Performance measures annual bonus.
The annual bonus manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not measures are reviewed annually and chosen to focus other key stakeholders in the Company.
In particular, our use a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets for the of earnings and return on total investment measures is Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the forthcoming year in addition to key strategic or operational designed to reward management for delivery of key financial individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these goals relevant to an individual.
Precise targets for bonus measures of Company success that should result in purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying measures are set at the start of each year by the sustainable value creation.
Targets are considered ahead of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award Remuneration Committee based on relevant reference points, each PSP grant by the Remuneration Committee taking into over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the including, for Group financial targets, the Companys budget account relevant external and internal reference points and time the award is granted.
and are designed to be appropriately stretching.
are designed to be appropriately stretching.
7 The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy 3 The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the 5 Broadly equivalent versions of the UK Sharesave Scheme set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, Companys share capital and with the exception of HMRC operate for USA employees US Employee Stock Purchase tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change approved options demerger, super dividend or dividend in Plan and overseas employees Overseas Sharesave Scheme.
in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably An Executive Director based in the USA or overseas may be amendment.
72 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Differences in policy from broader employee population There are differences in the precise components within the pay policy for Executive Directors and for our employees generally and a greater proportion of Executive Directors pay is at risk and determined by performance than for our employees generally.
However, as outlined in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statement, common principles underlie the pay policy throughout the Company, including for the Executive Directors.
In particular, we place great emphasis throughout the Company on reward being linked to performance either Group performance or of an employees particular attraction and on encouraging share ownership through participation in the PSP, which includes the ability to grant Restricted Share Awards to employees below the plc Board, CSOP or the All Employee Share Plan.
Non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non-executive Director NED fees NED fees other than NEDs whose appointment is in Fees are set at an appropriate level that is market competitive and reflective of the responsibilities To appropriately recognise respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO and time commitment associated with specific responsibilities by ensuring fees are major shareholders comprise payment of an annual basic roles.
fee and additional fees for further Board responsibilities such as: No absolute maximum has been set for Senior Independent Director.
Current fee Audit Committee Chairman.
levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
No NED participates in the Groups incentive The Companys Articles of Association provide arrangements or pension plan or receives any other that the total aggregate fees paid to the benefits other than: Chairman and NEDs will not exceed 1,000,000. where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit, in which case a NED may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit: where a NED lives outside the UK, in which case a travel allowance may be paid.
Fees are generally reviewed annually.
NEDs whose appointment is in respect of their position as shareholder representatives do not receive a fee.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy Merlins remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short term and long term performance targets.
The charts opposite provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
Assumed performance Assumptions used All performance scenarios Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2018.
Pension amount expected to be received in 2018 25% of base salary.
Minimum performance Variable pay No payout under the annual bonus.
1 Performance in line with expectations Variable pay 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
1 Maximum performance Variable pay 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
1 PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
For the purposes of the illustration, we have, consistent with legislative requirements, included the maximum permitted annual bonus opportunity 150% of salary and maximum permitted PSP award 350% of salary as set out in the Policy Table above.
We would emphasise that these are the maximum permitted awards under the incentive schemes.
Details of the application of the Remuneration Policy in 2018 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 73 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 000 4,000 3,773 55% 3,500 3,000 2,477 2,500 55% 2,272 46% 2,000 24% 1,493 1,500 46% 20% 24% 1,000 771 20% 509 100% 34% 21% 500 PSP 100% 34% 21% Annual bonus Fixed pay 0 Minimum Meeting expectations Maximum Minimum Meeting expectations Maximum CEO CFO Approach to recruitment remuneration Principles In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the Committee applies the following principles: The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, market data and existing arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that any arrangements should be in the best interests of Merlin and our shareholders, without paying more than isnecessary.
Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned onto the same package structure as the other Executive Directors, in line with the Policy Table presented above.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed following the Companys acquisition of or merger with another company or business, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Upon appointment, the Committee may consider it appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements in order to secure the appointment.
In particular, the Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out terms or remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer discussed below.
The Committee may provide costs and support if the recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard Policy to meet the individual circumstances of recruitment when: an interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director role on a short term basis: or exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-executive Director takes on an executive function on a short term basis.
74 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Maximum level of variable pay The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment shall be limited to the maximum permitted in the Policy Table, namely 500% of their annual salary.
This limit excludes any payments or awards that may be made to buy out the Director for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their previous employer discussed below.
Buy outs To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may make a one-off award to buy out terms, incentives and any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of all relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buy out award should be of comparable commercial value to the terms, incentives and other compensation which have been forfeited.
However, such awards would only be considered where there is a strong commercial rationale to do so.
Components and approach The remuneration package offered to new appointments may include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
In considering which elements to include, and in determining the approach for all relevant elements, the Committee will take into account a number of different factors, including but not limited to market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive Directors and internal relativities.
If appropriate, different targets may be applied to a new appointees incentives in their year of joining.
The Committee would seek to structure buy out and variable pay awards on recruitment to be in line with the Companys remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary, the Committee may also grant such awards outside of that framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
The exact terms of any such awards e. g. the form of the award, timeframe, performance conditions and leaver provisions would vary depending upon the specific commercial circumstances.
Recruitment of Non-executive Directors In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-executive Directors.
However, the Committee or the Board as appropriate may include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests ofshareholders.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 75 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Service contracts Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment other than the Non-executive Director whose appointment is in respect of their position as representative of KIRKBI are summarised in the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise stated in this Policy Report.
Provision Policy Notice period Executive Directors 12 months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-executive Directors three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director or no notice period if terminated by shareholders.
Termination payment There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in the Executive Directors service agreements.
Any payments of compensation on termination would be subject to negotiation in line with general principles which include a duty for the individual to mitigate loss.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling 12 month notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
All Non-executive Directors have rolling three month notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Sren Thorup Srensen, as the Non-executive Director nominated by KIRKBI, is appointed pursuant to the Relationship Agreement with his nominating shareholder and does not have an individual letter of appointment with the Company.
The Relationship Agreement provides for KIRKBI to maintain a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for so long as they hold 10% of the Companys share capital.
The Company has the right to remove this Director should the relevant shareholding fall below 10% and no fees or termination payments are payable.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Link House, 25 West Street, Poole BH15 1LD.
Policy on payment for loss of office As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, pension and benefits in relation to the individuals outstanding notice period.
In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, the Committee would take the following factors into account: The Committee may determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in which they cease employment.
This bonus would usually be time apportioned.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, takeinto account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole based on appropriate performance measures as determined by the Committee.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include, but are not limited to, paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
The table overleaf summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee does not formally consult with employees as part of its process when determining Executive Director pay.
However, the Committee is kept informed of general decisions made in relation to employee pay and related issues by the Group HR Director and is conscious of the importance of ensuring that its pay decisions for Executive Directors are regarded as fair and reasonable within the business.
As outlined in the Policy Table, pay and conditions in the Group are one of the specific considerations taken into account when the Committee is determining salary levels for the Executive Directors.
The Committee has considered both the UK Governments proposals on strengthening the voice of stakeholders in companies in particular the employee voice and the subsequent December 2017 Financial Reporting Council Consultation on the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee will continue to review the alternative approaches to meet the new obligations pending the publication of the final 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
76 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Consideration of shareholders views The Companys largest shareholder KIRKBI has an observer at the Committee.
In addition we have sought the views of our largest institutional shareholders for instance through discussion with the Chairman of the Board and or the Remuneration Committee Chair and leading advisory bodies.
Leavers and change of control The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
Treatment on a change Treatment for any of control voluntary Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for good leaver other leaver winding-up Deferred bonus awards vest on Deferred bonus Deferred bonus awards Deferred Bonus Plan Death.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards will usually vest on a Awards lapse.
PSP awards will vest on Ill-health.
time-apportioned basis on the normal a time-apportioned Retirement.
vesting date subject to any relevant basis unless the Redundancy.
performance condition s measured over performance period is Transfer of employing the full performance period.
complete or unless the company or business to Committee determines which an individuals However, in the event of death, or otherwise and subject employment relates out special circumstances at the to the Committees of the Group.
Remuneration Committees discretion, determination of the Any other scenario in awards may vest early based on the extent to which any which the Remuneration Committees determination of the relevant performance Committee determines extent to which any relevant conditions are satisfied.
that good leaver performance conditions are satisfied.
treatment is appropriate other than The Committee has the discretion, circumstances justifying acting fairly and reasonably, to dis-apply summary dismissal.
Company Share Option Options become exercisable for a period Options lapse.
Options will become Plan of six months after the date on which exercisable on a Executive Directors will only the Committee determines the extent time-apportioned basis receive CSOP awards in to which the option becomes exercisable unless any performance exceptional circumstances.
or 12 months in the event of death.
period is complete or unless the Committee Individuals who are promoted Options will become exercisable subject determines otherwise to the Board may have to the Committees determination of the and subject to the outstanding awards under extent to which any relevant Committees thisplan.
performance conditions are satisfied and determination of the on a time-apportioned basis unless the extent to which any Committee determines otherwise.
In relevant performance relation to HMRC-unapproved options, conditions are satisfied.
options may become exercisable at the normal vesting date or earlier if the Committee determines.
UK Sharesave Scheme Options become exercisable immediately on death, ceasing employment due to injury, disability, retirement, Overseas Sharesave Scheme redundancy, sale of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates out of the Group or on a change of control of the Company.
US Employee Stock Options become exercisable on death, ceasing employment due to injury, permanent disability, reaching normal Purchase Plan retirement age, sale of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates or on a change of control of the Company, MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 77 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy, as set out in the Policy Report, in 2018 for the current Executive Directors.
Base salary Salary details for the current Executive Directors are set out below.
Salary Salary from Annualised % 1 October 2016 1 April 2018 increase Nick Varney CEO 587,214 609,432 2.50% Anne-Francoise Nesmes CFO 385,000 399,567 2.50% Following consideration of the timing of the Group annual pay review, the date was moved from 1 October to 1 April each year with effect from 1 April 2017.
To effect a smooth transition, the annualised rate of increase applied to the wider UK workforce over the relevant periods 2.25% from 1 October 2016 to 1 October 2017 and 1.5% from 1 October 2017 to 1 April 2018 was applied to the Executive Directors so that salaries were increased at an annualised rate of 2.5%.
The increase for Anne-Francoise Nesmes was inclusive of a contractually agreed 2.25% of salary increase with effect from 1 October 2017.
The average salary increase for the Merlin UK workforce effective from 1 April 2018 is 1.5% and both the CEO and CFO will receive this increase, as noted in the Chairmans Statement.
Pension and benefits As in 2017, the current Executive Directors will receive a Company pension contribution worth 25% of salary.
Nick Varney will receive this contribution as a cash allowance and Anne-Francoise Nesmes will receive a contribution to the Group Pension Plan of no more than the minimum annual allowance for pensions of 10,000 and a cash allowance in respect of the balance.
To the extent that a cash allowance is paid, this is reduced by the corresponding amount of employer National Insurance Contributions.
They will also receive a standard package of other benefits consistent with those received in2017.
Annual bonus The structure of the annual bonus plan for 2018 remains broadly consistent with the 2017 plan.
Key features are as follows: The maximum annual bonus potential will be 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% for the CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
Bonus payments and deferred share awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the three year period following the award of the bonus in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
The Committees discretion includes the ability to adjust bonus awards to ensure they reflect underlying business performance, including health and safety issues.
The annual bonus for 2018 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below: As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Measure CEO CFO Underlying operating profit 80% 80% Personal objectives 20% 20% Total 100% 100% Payment under the non-financial elements of the bonus will be scaled back to the extent that Group underlying operating profit targets are not fully met.
Thismeans that if there is no payment under the Group underlying operating profit element of the bonus scheme, there will also be no payment under the personal element of the bonus irrespective of performance against the aforementioned individual measures.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2018 financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Directors Remuneration Report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
78 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan PSP awards are granted over Merlin shares with the number of shares under award determined by reference to a percentage of base salary.
Vesting of the awards is conditional upon satisfaction of performance conditions and is usually also conditional upon continued employment until the awards vest.
In addition, for awards from April 2017 onwards, a health and safety underpin is attached to all PSP awards.
This affords the Committee the ability to scale back or cancel awards in the case of a major health and safety incident if it decides it is appropriate to do so.
As in prior years, it is expected that awards will be granted at up to a maximum of 250% of salary.
The CEO and CFO will be amongst the participants in the PSP award expected to be granted in March 2018.
At the date of the grant the award to the CEO will be 250% of salary.
The CFO grant will be within policy and is currently under review given the new strategic plan and her specific responsibilities.
It is intended that a recommendation will be advised to shareholders no later than the end of March.
However, to ensure that the targets to be set for our 2018 PSP awards are closely aligned with Merlins strategy, amendments to both the metrics and the range of targets are being made.
The key changes vis-a-vis 2017 include granting awards i 80% subject to financial targets and 20% subject to strategic targets as opposed to 100% financial targets and ii recalibrating the range of financial targets to take account of the current plan, the markets expectations for our performance and wider economic developments.
The revised targets are set out below and, having regard to each of the factors noted, the Committee is satisfied that the targets, overall, are no less challenging than the targets set in 2017 allowing for current circumstances.
In light of the above, the targets we expect to apply to the awards are: EPS performance condition 40% of award Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting Below threshold 3% p. a. cumulative growth 0% Threshold 3% p. a. cumulative growth 8% Between threshold and maximum 3% 10% p. a. cumulative growth 8% to 40% on sliding scale Maximum 10% p. a. cumulative growth 40% Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the 2020 financial year with Adjusted EPS for the 2017 financial year.
ROCE performance condition 40% of award Average ROCE % of award vesting Below threshold 8% 0% Threshold 8% 10% Between threshold and maximum 8% 10% 10% to 40% on sliding scale Maximum 10% 40% Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2018, 2019 and 2020 financial years.
The above targets have been set to exclude the impact of LEGOLAND New York since this is not expected to open until Spring 2020 and so to ensure a consistent basis of testing underlying performance, the above targets will exclude its impact in terms of the forecast part year earnings and capital expenditure associated with its development.
It is expected that the PSP targets for any grants to be made in 2019 will include LEGOLAND New York as this awards performance period will include the first full year of its anticipated trading.
The Committee had previously intended to include LEGOLAND New York in the 2018 PSP award targets as noted in last years Directors Remuneration Report but since it will not operate for a full year in 2020, its inclusion in the range of targets has been postponed until the 2019 awards.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 79 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic performance condition 20% of award With regard to the strategic targets to apply to the 2018 awards, these reflect the Groups current areas of focus and encompass: Productivity: a range of targets will be set for improving productivity.
The targets will measure the benefits from business simplification projects and efficiency improvements from investments in systems and processes.
New business development: the targets will be set for the delivery of new attractions and their subsequent performance.
This will include new Midway attractions, new accommodation and new LEGOLAND parks.
Customer satisfaction: customers are at the heart of our business.
We will set customer satisfaction targets and measure performance based on survey data.
Each of the above categories will carry one-third weighting.
Achieving threshold performance will generate 25% vesting with 100% achieved for delivering the maximum target.
The targets are considered commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in full, along with actual performance at the time of vesting, in the 2020 Directors Remuneration Report.
PSP awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the five year period following the date of award in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
Employee Share Plan Invitations to UK employees including Executive Directors to participate in the Employee Sharesave Plan UK Sharesave Plan have been issued each year from 2014.
Similar invitations were issued to relevant employees under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the Overseas Sharesave Plan.
Invitations for the next award under each of these plans commence in March 2018.
Non-executive Director remuneration The table below shows the current fee structure for Independent Non-executive Directors.
Independent Non-executive Director fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee for the Chairman of the Board, which is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Fees as at January 2018 2018 Basic fee for UK-based Non-executive 50,000 Basic fee for overseas-based Non-executive 50,000 plus a travel allowance of 1,000 per Board meeting attended in person Senior Independent Director additional fee 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 250,000 As from 1 April 2018 the basic fee for Non-executive Directors and the Chairman will increase by 1.5% and the additional fee for the Audit Committee Chairman will increase by 1,000 to better reflect the time commitments of the position.
There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees nor to the shareholder representative Non-executive Director.
80 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED AUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Directors Remuneration Report up until the Unaudited information heading on page 85 is subject to audit.
Single total figure of remuneration in 2017 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors for 2017 with prior year comparatives for2016.
2017 Salary Annual Long term 1 2 3 4 5 6 All figures shown in 000 and fees Benefits bonus incentives Other Pension Total Executive Directors Nick Varney 597 21 185 131 934 Anne-Francoise Nesmes 387 17 4 85 493 Non-executive Directors Sir John Sunderland 250 250 Charles Gurassa 70 70 Ken Hydon 60 60 Fru Hazlitt 50 50 Trudy Rautio 59 59 Rachel Chiang 59 59 Sren Thorup Srensen 2016 Salary Annual Long term 1 2 3 4 5 6 All figures shown in 000 and fees Benefits bonus incentives Other Pension Total Executive Directors Nick Varney 583 21 1,296 128 2,028 Anne-Francoise Nesmes 160 8 36 204 Former Executive Director 7 Andrew Carr 205 10 622 45 882 Non-executive Directors Sir John Sunderland 250 250 Charles Gurassa 70 70 Ken Hydon 60 60 Fru Hazlitt 50 50 Trudy Rautio 57 57 8 Rachel Chiang 57 57 Sren Thorup Srensen Notes to the table methodology: 1 Salary and fees this represents the cash paid or receivable in respect of the period.
For Non-executive Directors based outside the UK this includes any travel allowance payable.
2 Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid or receivable in respect of the period.
Executive Directors receive a company car or car allowance, phone costs, income protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The most significant of these benefits is the car benefit which was 14,355 for the CEO and 12,300 for the CFO.
3 Annual bonus this is the total annual bonus earned in respect of the period.
Two-thirds of this bonus is paid in cash and the remaining third is deferred in shares for three years.
Further details relating to the 2017 bonus are disclosed below.
4 Long term incentives this column relates to the value of long term awards, the performance period for which ends in the year under review.
The first long term incentive award granted post Listing had a performance period that ended in 2016.
The figure for 2016 has been updated to reflect the vesting of the award based on the share price on the date of vesting 4.796.
The second long term incentive award had a performance period that ended in 2017.
The figure for 2017 reflects the vesting of the award based on the average closing share price for the final quarter of 2017 3.833.
Further details are given in the Outstanding awards under the PSP note on page 84.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 81 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Notes to the table methodology continued : 5 Other this column relates to the value of the grant of options under the UK Sharesave Plan.
The grant has been valued for the 2017 grant at 20.6% of the market value of shares under option which is the IFRS 2 valuation for this award.
At the date of grant the face value was 4.9503 and the exercise price was 3.9603, being a 20% discount under the UK Sharesave Plan rules.
None of the Executive Directors participated in the 2016 UK Sharesave Plan.
6 Pension Executive Directors receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary.
Nick Varney receives this contribution as a cash allowance and Anne-Francoise Nesmes receives this as a contribution to the Group Personal Pension Plan up to the annual allowance and, in respect of the balance, as a cash allowance.
This figure represents the benefit received by the Directors in respect of the period.
7 Details shown for Andrew Carr for 2016 are his salary, pension and benefits from 27 December 2015 to 31 July 2016 plus the vesting value of his 2013 PSP award, the performance period for which ended in 2016.
Andrew continued to work for the Company until 31 October 2016 and details of his pay for that period are set out on page 82.
Andrew Carr retired on 31 October 2016, at which date his salary was 351,900.
8 Rachel Chiang joined the Board on 1 January 2016.
Fees shown in the table are from that date to 31 December 2016.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single figure table Annual bonus Executive Directors are participants in the central bonus plan.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors for 2017 was 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% of salary for the CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned is deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
The maximum potential annual bonus that could be paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2017 performance was determined by underlying operating profit performance with targets set by reference to the Group budget.
20% of that potential bonus was additionally subject to satisfaction of individual objectives.
Performance measures and targets applying to the 2017 annual bonus are set out below.
In 2017 no bonus was payable to employees under the central bonus plan, including the Executive Directors, since the financial threshold for payment of bonus was not achieved.
Proportion of bonus Performance determined by Threshold Maximum % of maximum measure measure performance Target performance performance Actual performance bonus payable 2 Underlying 80% 327.1 million 348 million 368.9 million 323 million 0% operating profit 0% of bonus 40% of bonus 80% of bonus payable payable payable 1 Individual objectives 20% Following the year end, the Committee assessed performance 0% as threshold against the individual objectives for each Director for 2017. profit target was not achieved CEO: The CEO met the majority of his personal objectives which comprised development of the pipeline in support of the new business targets for new LEGOLAND parks, accommodation and Midway openings, health and safety, talent management and visitor satisfaction.
CFO: The CFO met the majority of her personal objectives which comprised simplifying business plan processes, assessing the future finance organisation model to support Merlins international growth, delivering a successful bond issue, productivity savings and talent management.
TOTAL 0% CEO 0% CFO 1 The maximum annual bonus payout that can be received as a result of individual objectives is scaled back to the extent that the actual underlying operating profit falls short of the maximum payout.
2 As reported on a statutory 52 week basis.
82 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Performance Share Plan awards An award was granted under the PSP to selected senior executives, including Nick Varney and Anne-Francoise Nesmes, on 30 March 2017.
These awards are subject to the performance conditions described below and will vest on 30 March 2020.
Maximum Face value Threshold End of number Face value % of base vesting performance 1 Type of award of shares salary % of award period For EPS element Nick Varney Performance shares 315,947 1,501,064 250% 10% of award max 50% 28 December 2019 For ROCE element Anne-Francoise Nesmes Performance shares 182,330 866,250 225% 12.5% of award max 50% 1 The maximum number of shares that could be awarded has been calculated using the closing share price on 29 March 2017 of 4.751 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
EPS performance condition 50% of award Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting Below threshold 7% p. a. cumulative growth 0% Threshold 7% p. a. cumulative growth 10% Between threshold and maximum 7% 14% p. a. cumulative growth 10% to 50% on sliding scale Maximum 14% p. a. cumulative growth 50% Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the 2019 financial year with Adjusted EPS for the 2016 financial year.
Adjusted EPS is defined on page 152.
ROCE performance condition 50% of award Average ROCE % of award vesting Below threshold 9% 0% Threshold 9% 12.5% Between threshold and maximum 9% 13% 12.5% to 50% on sliding scale Maximum 13% 50% Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2017, 2018 and 2019 financial years.
Payments to past Directors As disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Andrew Carr stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2016 and ceased employment on31 October 2016.
He was treated as a good leaver for the purposes of his outstanding PSP awards.
Following the application of the relevant performance targets and a reduction to his outstanding awards to reflect the proportion of the relevant vesting periods for which he was employed, 129,703 shares relating to the 2013 PSP award vested on 3 April 2017 disclosure of actual performance against the targets set was disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration and 99,167 shares will vest on 3 April 2018 in connection with his 2015 PSP award see disclosure of actual performance against the 2015 PSP award targets on page 84.
There are no further payments to be made in connection with his cessation of employment.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office to Directors during 2017.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 83 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests A shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary by the fifth anniversary of appointment applies to the Executive Directors.
The CEO had a shareholding that exceeded that requirement at 30 December 2017.
The CFO joined in August 2016 and is in the process of building up her shareholding to meet the requirement by her fifth anniversary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve the shareholding requirement primarily by retaining at least 50% of any share awards that vest under the PSP and the Deferred Bonus Plan after selling sufficient shares to satisfy tax liabilities.
Individuals are expected to be compliant with their shareholding requirement within five years of that individual becoming subject to the requirement.
The Committee reviews ongoing individual performance against the shareholding requirement at the end of each financial year.
Current shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors are set out in the table below.
Number of shares Interests in share incentive schemes, Interests in share incentive awarded subject to schemes, awarded without performance performance conditions at conditions at 2 30 December 2017 30 December 2017 Value of shareholding at 30 December Shares owned 2017 as a % of salary outright at shareholding 30 December Deferred 1 Director requirement target 2017 Sharesave Bonus PSP 3, 6 Nick Varney 4,003% 200% 6,622,936 2,780 67,327 987,925 3, 5 Anne-Francoise Nesmes 9% 200% 10,000 4,545 368,339 4 Sir John Sunderland 531,044 Charles Gurassa 31,746 Ken Hydon 62,233 Fru Hazlitt 31,746 Trudy Rautio 11,250 Rachel Chiang Sren Thorup Srensen Notes to the table: 1 In accordance with the Deferred Bonus Plan rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under Deferred Bonus Plan awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the deferral period calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The total number of shares shown in this table includes 1,241 shares for Nick Varney which relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant on Deferred Bonus Plan awards.
2 Further details relating to the PSP grants are summarised in the table overleaf.
3 For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals salary and the share price as at 29 December 2017 has been used 3.629.
4 Of the total shares held by Sir John Sunderland, 1,644 shares are held by a connected person and 33,428 shares are held by trusts of which Sir John is a trustee and which members of his family are beneficiaries.
5 Of the total shares held by Anne-Francoise Nesmes, 5,500 are held by a connected person.
6 Nick Varney exercised 3,036 options in the year under the UK Employee Sharesave Plan.
Between 30 December 2017 and the date of this report there were no changes in the shareholdings outlined in the above table except that Trudy Rautio acquired 19,000 shares which are held in a trust of which she is a Trustee.
84 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Outstanding awards under the PSP Maximum Dividend number equivalent Performance 1 2 Date of grant Date of vesting of shares shares period Performance condition 2 April 2015 2 April 2018 328,846 15,157 2015-2017 EPS: 10% vests for 7% p. a. cumulative 1 April 2016 1 April 2019 313,592 9,525 2016-2018 growth, increasing to 50% vesting for Nick Varney 30 March 2017 30 March 2020 315,947 4,858 2017-2019 14% p. a. cumulative growth ROCE: 12.5% vests for average ROCE Anne-Francoise 1 September 2016 2 September 2019 180,431 2,774 2016-2018 of 9%, increasing to 50% vesting for Nesmes 30 March 2017 30 March 2020 182,330 2,804 2017-2019 average ROCE of 13% 1 In accordance with the PSP rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under PSP awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The figures in the table above relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
2 Full details of performance conditions can be found in the Directors Remuneration Reports for the year in which the grants were made.
As disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts, the performance period for the 2 April 2015 awards was the three financial years to 30 December 2017.
The calculation of the performance conditions is as follows: Adjusted EPS growth by comparing EPS for the financial year ending 30 December 2017 with EPS for the financial year ending 27 December 2014.
The Adjusted EPS for the financial year ended 27 December 2014 was 17.7 pence.
Average ROCE an average of ROCE for the three individual financial years ending 26 December 2015, 31 December 2016 53 weeks and 30 December 2017.
The compound annual growth rate of Adjusted EPS over the performance period was 5.1% and the average Return on Capital Employed was 9.2%.
Theperformance conditions set out above yield a vesting of 14.0% of maximum.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 85 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 UNAUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The chart below compares the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company over the period from Listing to 30 December 2017 to the performance of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which Merlin is a member.
The base point in the chart for Merlin equates to the Offer Price of 315 pence.
150 Merlin Entertainments n FTSE 350 n 140 130 120 110 00% 100 100% 00% 00% 90 Listing 2013 year end 2014 year end 2015 year end 2016 year end 2017 year end 13 November 2013 28 December 2013 27 December 2014 26 December 2015 31 December 2016 30 December 2017 The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and PSP vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
2 Includes value of options under UK Sharesave Plan.
3 Relates to performance from 28 December 2013.
Value of 100 invested at the Offer Price Merlin on the date of Listing FTSE 350 86 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT C ON T INUED Percentage change in remuneration of the CEO The table below indicates the change in the CEOs remuneration between 2016 and 2017 and the change in average remuneration for other UK permanent employees between 2016 and 2017.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the UK workforce is the most appropriate comparator for this analysis for the UK based CEO.
Annual bonus Salary Benefits increase increase 1 2 3 increase decrease decrease CEO 2.25% 0% 0% Average for all UK permanent employees 2.25% 0% 0% 1 As noted on page 77, due to the change of the annual pay review date, Nick Varney received an increase of 1.0% in October 2016 and an increase of 2.25% in April 2017.
Both of these increases were in line with the average increase for all UK permanent employees.
In accordance with her contract Anne-Francoise Nesmes received a first review of her salary in October 2017, reflecting a 2.25% increase.
2 The CEOs benefits remained at the same level as the previous year.
3 For comparative purposes, the annual bonus % for the CEO is compared to the average for the participants in the central bonus plan.
Relative importance of the spend on pay This table illustrates the total expenditure on pay for all of Merlins employees compared to distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit is also shown.
2016 2017 Increase m m decrease Employee costs 382 420 10.0% Distribution to shareholders 67 74 11.0% Underlying operating profit 320 323 0.9% Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Committee has been chaired throughout the year by Charles Gurassa.
The Committee has comprised the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Committee, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt and Trudy Rautio.
The Committee met three times during 2017.
The CEO, CFO, Group HR Director, Group Compensation and Benefits Director, Sren Thorup Srensen and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary in his role as secretary to the Committee were also present at some of these meetings by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of Executive Director pay.
It also monitors pay arrangements for other senior executives and oversees the operation of all share plans.
Full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website under Investor Relations Corporate Governance.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company in 2013 to provide advice on executive remuneration matters.
During the year the Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte, principally on the drafting of the Remuneration Report, shareholder consultation and market practice.
Deloitte was paid 30,450 in fees during 2017 for these services charged on a time plus expenses basis.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, other practices of Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, have provided indirect tax advice to the Company during the year.
Following a review of executive remuneration advisers, Korn Ferry were appointed after a competitive tender by the Remuneration Committee on 7 November 2017 to replace Deloitte LLP and were paid 16,800 in fees during the remainder of 2017 charged on a time plus expenses basis.
Korn Ferry is also a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates under its code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Korn Ferry has not provided any other services to the Company during the year.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 87 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Shareholder voting on the Remuneration Report At the relevant Annual General Meetings, strong shareholder support was received for our resolutions on remuneration as summarised below.
Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Approval of the Policy Report 2017 866.1 million 95.8% 38.2 million 4.2% 0.1 million Approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration 2017 874.2 million 97.5% 22.6 million 2.5% 7.6 million External Board appointments Executive Directors are normally entitled to accept external appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they received a fee.
Annual General Meeting The Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report will be submitted for an advisory shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2018.
On behalf of the Board Charles Gurassa Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2018
