DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report DESCRIPTION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE This section of the Directors Remuneration Report describes the membership of the Remuneration Committee, its advisers and principal activities during the period.
It forms part of the Annual Report on Remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report.
MEMBERSHIP The current membership of the Remuneration Committee, together with appointment dates, is set out below.
As required under the terms of reference, the Remuneration Committee has three members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors, and holds a minimum of two meetings a year.
Remuneration Committee member since 3 October 2011 DOUGLAS MCCALLUM Number of meetings: 4 Chairman Number attended: 4 Remuneration Committee member since 9 March 2010 RUTH ANDERSON Number of meetings: 4 Number attended: 4 ANDREW HARRISON Remuneration Committee member since 1 March 2016 Number of meetings: 4 Number attended: 3 Andrew Harrison did not attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to family illness.
The biography of each member of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors' Report section on pages 116 and 117.
Other attendees at the Remuneration Committee meetings included the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the People Director and the external adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors and other attendees are not involved in any decisions of the Remuneration Committee and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The Deputy Company Secretary is secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
EXTERNAL ADVICE During the period, the Remuneration Committee and the Company retained independent external advisers to assist them on various aspects of the Companys remuneration and share schemes as set out below: Services Provided to the Adviser Retained by Remuneration Committee Other Services Provided  Remuneration Executive remuneration advice including Advice on a range of remuneration issues.
LLP Committee assisting in a benchmarking review of Executive Separate auditor team engaged until May 2017.
Appointment effective Separate teams engaged by the Company to advise on IT from June 2017. security and other matters.
Deloitte LLP Remuneration Executive remuneration advice.
Appointment Advice on a range of remuneration issues.
Separate team engaged in 2017 as statutory auditor to the Company.
Slaughter Company None Share schemes, tax and employment law advice as well and May as general UK legal advice in respect of a number of the Companys remuneration matters.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 72 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance receiving a report on Group-wide and management remuneration for 2017:  LLP APPOINTMENT Given the appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as external auditors of the consulting the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman on performance Company from the 2017 annual general meeting, it was agreed that Deloitte and remuneration of the Executive Directors: would not continue as adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
Accordingly, receiving reports from advisers on senior executive pay, market themes the Remuneration Committee tendered the role of independent external and trends: adviser.
The tender concluded in spring 2017 and  LLP PwC were appointed to the role.
receiving a report on the Groups share schemes and plans for 2018: The Remuneration Committee approved and oversaw the tender process, receiving a report on shareholder feedback on the 2016 annual report and including agreeing the timetable and tender document.
2017 annual general meeting: The Company met with a number of consultants.
From this, two shortlisted reviewing the performance of advisers: and firms were invited to submit a written proposal to the Company and to give a presentation to the Remuneration Committee along with a number of agreeing a process and timetable for, and conducting a tender of, the role key Ocado employees.
The Remuneration Committee evaluated each firm of external remuneration consultants.
using the tender criteria and agreed to appoint PwC.
The decision of the The Remuneration Committees work also included monitoring and Remuneration Committee to appoint PwC as remuneration adviser was considering the level and structure of remuneration for the Management based on a number of factors, including the strength of their proposal for Committee.
Ultimate decision-making responsibility for the remuneration services: their understanding of the business and its entrepreneurial culture: of the Management Committee lies with the Chief Executive Officer.
This an assessment of their independence from the Company: their client base: approach still gives the Remuneration Committee necessary visibility of senior and their proposed fees.
PwC operates under the Remuneration Consultants management remuneration to enable it to formulate appropriate policy and Group Code of Conduct.
make decisions regarding Executive Director remuneration, but allows the For the period from their appointment on 22 June 2017 to the period end, Chief Executive Officer, who is best placed to make remuneration decisions 17,000 in advisory fees were paid or payable to PwC for services provided to about the management team, the flexibility to do so.
The Remuneration the Remuneration Committee.
For the period from the start of the period to Committee believes this practice is beneficial to the Company and supports their resignation in March 2017, 20,600 in advisory fees were paid or payable the Code principle D. 2. to Deloitte LLP for services provided to the Remuneration Committee.
Both The Remuneration Committee carried out a review of its terms of reference PwC and Deloitte LLP were paid fees on a retainer basis.
during the period, which did not result in any changes.
OTHER SUPPORT FOR THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In addition to the activities of the Remuneration Committee, the Executive In addition to the external advice received, the Remuneration Committee Directors and the Chairman reviewed the remuneration arrangements of the consulted and received reports from the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Non-Executive Directors.
the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairman, the People Director and the Deputy Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the need to recognise and manage conflicts of interest when receiving views and reports from, or consulting with, the Executive Directors or members of senior management.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR The Remuneration Committee has, under its terms of reference, been delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for all of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
In line with its terms of reference, the Remuneration Committees work during the period included the following: approving the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report: reviewing performance under the 2016 AIP and consideration of any bonuses payable: approving the 2017 AIP performance targets: approving the 2017 LTIP awards and performance targets: reviewing performance against LTIP awards: receiving executive remuneration advice from advisers in respect of a range of matters considered by the Remuneration Committee during the year: Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 73 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Companys policy for the remuneration of its Directors.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 3 May 2017 and took effect from that date replacing the previous policy.
Since then, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Directors Remuneration Policy and concluded that it remained appropriate for the foreseeable future.
Given there were no proposals to revise the policy it remains valid and will not be put for shareholder approval at the AGM.
It is expected that the Company will next propose a resolution to approve the directors remuneration policy at the annual general meeting to be held in 2020, or sooner in the event of proposed revisions to the policy.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is extracted in full without amendment and it is in the form approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 3 May 2017, except for this introduction and minor amendments such as page or cross references, changed defined terms and to remove comparisons with the 2014 policy.
Remuneration Principles for Senior Executives The Directors Remuneration Policy is underpinned by the following remuneration principles: Support long-term success of the business and sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Be aligned to the business strategy and achievement of planned business goals.
Be compatible with the Groups risk policies and systems.
Link maximum payout to outstanding results.
Ensure that performance-related pay constitutes a significant proportion of the overall package.
Provide a balance between attracting, retaining and motivating the right calibre of candidates, and taking into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 74 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Link with Strategy The key objective to be achieved through the Directors Remuneration Policy is to support the Groups main strategic objectives of expansion and high growth.
The AIP, the LTIP and the GIP contain specific performance measures designed to support the objectives of accelerating retail business performance in the A A short and medium-term for example, EBITDA and Gross Sales Retail targets and the objectives of creating long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value for example, key strategic targets concerning the efficiency of the nascent solutions business.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, outlined on the following pages, provides the detailed structure of each element of remuneration and how each element is determined.
The remuneration package of the Executive Directors is made up of elements of fixed and variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the weighting of fixed and variable pay and balance of shortand long-term awards, and sought to position a larger proportion of the remuneration package as equity-based and performance-related in order to support the Companys strategic objectives of high growth and expansion and to create shareholder alignment.
The balance of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out at Illustration of Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 89 and 90.
The holding period in the LTIP, the share deferral provision in the AIP, the minimum shareholding requirements and the GIPs five-year performance period all help ensure a longer term focus for the business from the Executive Directors.
Reflects the value of the individual, their role, skills, experience Base taking into account appropriate market data and contribution to Fixed Salary the business Benefits Aligned with all other employee arrangements Pension Provides an appropriate level of retirement benefits Annual Incentive Incentivises achievement of annual objectives Plan Deferred Aligns Director and shareholder interests by delivering Bonus bonus payments in deferred shares Under AIP Long-Term Incentivises generation of long-term shareholder value Incentives One-Off Motivates key individuals to achieve specific long-term Variable targets and exceptional levels of performance Plans See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 75 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Discretion and Judgement In formulating the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee sought to allow it sufficient operational flexibility over Director remuneration for three years.
While the policy provides the boundaries for remuneration arrangements, the policy is intended to provide some isolated discretion for the Remuneration Committee to use in various circumstances relating to particular components of remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Policy does not provide for the exercise of discretion over any aspect of the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may not use any discretion outside the policy without separate shareholder approval.
The Remuneration Committee operates the share schemes according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and other rules and regulations, where relevant.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, in a number of regards, to the operation and administration of these plans.
The discretions include, but are not limited to, those set out in the table below.
Area of Discretion AIP LTIP JSOS GIP The participants Y Y Y Y The timing of grant of an award or payment Y Y Y Y The size of an award up to a predetermined maximum Y Y Y Y The determination of vesting, holding periods or payment Y Y N Y Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Y Y Y Y Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen Y Y Y Y Adjustments required in certain circumstances for example, rights issues, corporate restructuring events and dividends Y Y Y Y Adjust or change the performance conditions if anything happens which causes the Remuneration Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate for example, Board approved strategic initiative or transaction provided that any changed performance condition will be equally difficult to satisfy as the original condition would have been had such circumstances not arisen Y Y N Y The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets from year to year Y Y Y N Adjustment to level of payments or formulaic scheme outcomes, both upwards and downwards, including to ensure the scheme outcomes reflect individual or Company performance over the performance period, or to take account of unforeseen circumstances outside the Companys control Y Y N N Application of malus and clawback Y Y N Y The use of discretion in relation to the Companys ESOS, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the other relevant rules and regulations.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee may also apply judgement or a qualitative assessment, for example in assessing achievement against role specific objectives under the AIP.
Development of Directors Remuneration Policy Shareholder Context The Remuneration Committee did not formally consult shareholders on the Directors Remuneration Policy on the basis that the minor changes to the policy were to the benefit of shareholders such as introducing an LTIP holding period and there were no changes to the overall structure or elements of remuneration for the Directors.
Shareholders were notified of, and given the opportunity to discuss, the changes to the policy with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee had previously consulted shareholders on various incentive arrangements and the current policies and had used these consultations to inform its view that there is good alignment between the Directors Remuneration Policy and shareholder interests.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 76 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Employee Context The Remuneration Committee receives an annual report from management on Group-wide remuneration.
This review covers changes to pay, benefits, pension and share schemes for all employees in the Group, including the percentage increases in base pay for monthly and hourly paid employees.
The Remuneration Committees work includes monitoring and commenting on the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee in relation to various changes to base pay and incentive plans.
This provides some of the context for the Remuneration Committees decisions concerning changes to base pay and other elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
However, the Remuneration Committee did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy, nor take into account any remuneration comparison measurements.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is designed in line with the remuneration principles outlined on page 74, which reflect the remuneration principles for the Group.
A key remuneration principle for the Group is that share awards be used to recognise and reward good performance and attract and retain employees.
This is reflected by the issue of awards of free shares and options to all employees under the SIP and the ESOS schemes, which allows all employees an opportunity to share in the Groups success via share ownership.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below Board level reflect the seniority of the role.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees differ from the remuneration framework for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for certain groups of employees, but has not adopted a universal approach to these elements of remuneration for all employees.
Remuneration Policy Table: Elements of Director Remuneration The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors, their purposes and links to strategy, the maximum opportunity and any performance conditions.
Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Fixed pay Base pay Paid monthly in cash.
To avoid setting the No contractual To attract and retain the expectations of Executive provisions for Reviewed annually by the Remuneration right calibre of senior Directors and other employees, clawback or malus.
Committee, with any changes normally executive required to no maximum salary is set becoming effective in April each year or support the long-term under the policy.
Normally, may be reviewed ad hoc where there is a interests of the business.
maximum salary increases significant change of responsibilities.
for Executive Directors will be within the normal percentage The review takes into account a number range and guidelines that of factors including: the Groups annual are applied to the UK-based review process, business performance, monthly paid employees of the total remuneration, appropriate market Company in that year.
data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity in Where appropriate and similar sectors and geographical locations necessary, larger increases to the Company, and an individuals may be awarded in exceptional contribution to the Group.
circumstances: for example, if a role has increased significantly in scope or complexity.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate and necessary to bring a recently appointed executive in line with the market and the other executives in the Company where their salary at appointment has been positioned below the market.
com 77 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Benefits The Company provides a range of benefits Not performance linked.
Benefits for Executive No contractual To attract and retain the which are aligned with those provided Directors are set at a level provisions for right calibre of senior to monthly paid employees under the which the Remuneration clawback or malus.
executive required to Companys flexible benefits policy.
These Committee considers to be support the long-term may include: private medical insurance appropriate against market interests of the business.
and health assessments, life assurance, data for comparable roles travel insurance, income protection, travel for companies of equivalent allowance, free parking, access to financial size and complexity in similar and legal advice, staff product discount, sectors and geographical subsidised staff restaurants and other locations to the Company.
Any business travel costs will be The maximum value of the paid by the Company.
Additional benefits Directors and Officers Liability or payments in lieu of benefits may also Insurance and the Companys be provided in certain circumstances, if indemnity is the cost at the required for business needs.
Any benefits allowances will be paid in cash monthly and will not form part of pensionable salary.
The Company provides Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and may provide an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act.
Pension Contributions, allowances and pension Not performance linked.
Contributions to the No contractual To attract and retain choices for the Executive Directors are on defined contribution pension provisions for the right calibre of the same terms as for other employees.
scheme for the Executive clawback or malus.
senior executive Directors will normally be in Executive Directors can choose to required to support line with the other scheme participate in the defined contribution the long-term interests of participants: however, the Group personal pension scheme or an the business.
Remuneration Committee occupational money purchase scheme.
may exceed this standard Where lifetime or annual pension maximum in order to be market allowances have been met, the balance of competitive and attract and employer contributions may be paid as a retain the right calibre of senior cash allowance or into a personal pension executive talent needed to arrangement.
These amounts will not support the long-term interests be treated as salary for the purposes of of the business.
Pension contributions for UK The Groups contributions under the based Executive Directors will defined contribution scheme are set as not exceed 30% of annual base a percentage of salary based on length salary.
Contributions For Executive Directors outside under the occupational money purchase the UK, provision for an executive scheme are aligned with the legislative pension will be set taking into minimum.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 78 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: Short-Term Incentives Annual Incentive Plan Measures and targets are set annually and The Remuneration Committee The maximum bonus is 200% Clawback may AIP bonus payments are determined by the sets annual targets that are of base salary.
apply for three To provide a direct link Remuneration Committee following the closely aligned to the delivery years or longer if The maximum bonus payable between measurable year end based on performance against of the Groups strategic the Remuneration for the relevant financial year is and predictable annual the targets.
Committee described in the Annual Report Company and or role determines from Bonus payments, if made, are payable in These will be a mix of financial on Remuneration.
specific performance date of payment of cash after the results of the Group have targets and individual and reward.
a bonus or grant of been audited.
objectives with the majority a deferred award, in To incentivise the being financial.
To the extent that an Executive Director certain exceptional achievement of does not meet the minimum shareholding For threshold performance circumstances.
outstanding results requirement, up to 50% of any bonus no more than 25% of the aligned to the business Read more on payment will be deferred into shares, maximum opportunity strategy.
page 87. vesting after a period of three years.
For stretch performance, the maximum opportunity will be earned.
The performance conditions for the relevant financial year are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
com 79 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: Long-Term Incentives Long Term Incentive An award over a fixed number of The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee Clawback and Plan LTIP shares is granted annually.
Awards sets targets that are closely may grant awards, with a malus provisions To attract, retain and made in the form of nil-cost options or aligned to the delivery of the maximum total market value may be applied incentivise senior conditional share awards will ordinarily Groups strategic objectives for of 150% of annual base salary to LTIP awards in executives over the vest three years from award, subject to the performance period.
In the case of certain exceptional longer-term.
continued service and the achievement These will be a mix of financial the Chief Executive Officer, the circumstances.
The of performance conditions and other targets and individual maximum total market value clawback period To align the interests of conditions.
objectives with the majority of an award is 200% of annual will be two years the senior executives and being financial.
or longer, if the the shareholders.
Dividend equivalents may be paid in Remuneration cash or additional shares on LTIP awards For threshold performance, In exceptional circumstances, Committee that vest.
no more than 25% of the the Remuneration Committee determines from the maximum opportunity will may grant awards with a Awards made after 3 May 2017 are subject end of the holding vest.
For stretch performance, maximum total market value of to an additional holding period of two period or the date the the maximum opportunity will 300% of annual base salary of a years or longer if the Remuneration awards are acquired.
The measurement period participant or, in the case of the Committee determines from the third for performance conditions Chief Executive Officer, 400% of Read more on anniversary of the date of grant.
LTIP will ordinarily comprise annual base salary.
page 87. awards are only acquired by an Executive at least three financial Director once the total period of five years years of the Company.
The from the date of grant has elapsed.
The performance conditions holding period usually applies regardless for the relevant award are of whether or not the Executive Director described in the Annual remains an employee of the Group.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 80 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: One-off Long-Term Incentives Growth Incentive Plan A one-off award of options over shares in Awards are subject to a single Four million shares for the Clawback and malus GIP the Company with a nil exercise price.
performance condition to be Chief Executive Officer and one provisions may be To attract, retain and satisfied over the five years million shares for each of the applied to GIP awards The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief incentivise senior from the date of grant.
Chief Financial Officer and the in certain exceptional Financial Officer and the Chief Operations executives.
The Officer received an award.
New Executive The share price of the Company clawback period To align the interests Directors and other senior employees is the sole performance Awards to new participating will be two years of senior executives may be invited to participate at a level measure and its growth will be Executive Directors or other or longer if the and shareholders, by dependent on the point during the assessed relative to the growth senior employees will not Remuneration incentivising senior performance period at which they were of the FTSE 100 Share Index exceed the awards of existing Committee executives to deliver appointed.
determines from the exceptional levels of The Executive Directors must hold a level Performance will be assessed date of vesting.
growth and return to the of shares throughout the performance based on the three month shareholder over the Read more on period.
For the Chief Executive Officer, this average share price of the long-term.
page 87. shareholding must be at least one times Company and of the FTSE 100 salary and for other Executive Directors, Share Index at the beginning this shareholding must be at least half and end of the performance times salary.
The performance target is growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index plus: not more than 5% p. a. : 0% of the award vests: 5% p. a. : 25% of the award vests: 10% p. a. : 50% of the award vests: 15% p. a. : 75% of the award vests: and 20% p. a. : 100% of the award vests.
Joint Share Ownership A one-off arrangement established prior Interests in shares vested The JSOS rules contain limits Certain leaver Scheme JSOS to the Companys listing on the London annually over a four-year which constrain the number provisions allow To attract, retain and Stock Exchange in 2010. period.
The participant of interests that may be issued the Company incentivise senior benefits from the increase in under the JSOS.
to recover share The participants and Estera Trust Jersey executives.
value of the shares' interests interests in certain Limited, the EBT Trustee, acquired No future awards will be made above a predetermined circumstances.
To align the interests of separate beneficial interests in ordinary to the Executive Directors market price for each tranche the senior executives shares of the Company.
The participant under the JSOS.
Read more on the hurdle price.
and the shareholders, by may lose his interest in the shares.
page 87. driving share price growth Awards under the JSOS will over four years.
have no value unless the hurdle price is achieved.
Interests in the Companys shares were granted in tranches, with a different hurdle price for each tranche.
com 81 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding All-Employee Share Plans Sharesave All employees are eligible to participate Not performance linked.
Options are usually granted The scheme rules To provide all employees, in this all employee tax advantaged share at a discount to the market do not provide for including Executive scheme.
The Company grants options price at the time of grant up to malus or clawback Directors, the opportunity over shares in the Company to employees, the maximum discount under provisions.
to voluntarily invest in including the Executive Directors.
Company shares and be To obtain an option an eligible individual Employees are limited to aligned with the interests must agree to save a fixed monthly saving a maximum amount of shareholders.
amount for three or five years up to under HMRC limits.
the maximum monthly amount under HMRC limits.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options may be exercised in a six month period at the maturity of a three or five year savings period, subject to continued service.
Share Incentive Plan All employees are eligible to participate Not performance linked.
Maximum opportunity for The scheme rules SIP in this all employee tax advantaged share awards and purchases are kept do not provide for To provide all employees, scheme.
The SIP allows: in line with HMRC limits.
malus or clawback including Executive provisions.
the Company to grant free shares to Directors, the opportunity all employees allocated on an equal to receive and invest in basis: Company shares and be aligned with the interests all employees to buy partnership of shareholders.
shares monthly from their gross salary: and the Company may offer matching shares to employees who purchase partnership shares.
Dividend shares are also covered by the SIP arrangements.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 82 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding 2014 Executive Share All employees are eligible to participate If awards are made to the There are currently no plans The scheme rules Option Scheme in this all employee tax advantaged share Executive Directors, the to make awards to the existing do not provide for 2014 ESOS scheme and the unapproved part of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors under this malus or clawback To provide all employees, scheme.
including Executive Remuneration Committee sets The Company grants options over shares Maximum opportunity for Directors, the opportunity targets that are closely aligned in the Company to employees.
Options awards will be in line with to receive Company share to the delivery of the Groups over shares vest on the third anniversary HMRC limits for the tax options and be aligned strategic objectives for the of grant, subject to continued service advantaged part of the scheme.
with the interests of performance period.
These and satisfaction of any performance shareholders.
may be a mix of strategic Maximum opportunity for conditions.
If vested, the options may be and financial targets with the awards under the unapproved exercised at any time between the third majority being financial.
part of the scheme is 300% of and tenth anniversaries of grant at the annual base salary, except in executives discretion.
For threshold performance exceptional circumstances.
no more than 25% of the maximum opportunity would be earned.
For stretch performance, the maximum opportunity will vest.
The measurement period for performance conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
Executive Share Options issued prior to May 2014 were See 2014 ESOS.
There are currently no plans to See 2014 ESOS.
Option Scheme issued under the ESOS.
Employees and make awards to any employees ESOS two Executive Directors retain options or the Executive Directors To provide all employees, under the ESOS.
From May 2014 new under this scheme.
including Executive option awards are made under the 2014 See 2014 ESOS.
The terms of the ESOS largely to receive Company share mirror those of the 2014 ESOS.
options and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
com 83 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors.
Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Chairman Fee The fee is paid monthly in cash.
The maximum aggregate No contractual To attract and retain amount of basic fees payable provisions for Reviewed annually by the Remuneration an individual with the to all Directors shall not clawback or malus.
Committee, with any changes normally appropriate degree exceed the 1 million limit set becoming effective in April each year.
of expertise and in the Companys Articles of experience.
The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual Normally, any increases will be review process, business performance within the normal percentage and appropriate market data for range and guidelines that comparable roles for companies of are applied to the UK-based equivalent size and complexity in similar monthly paid employees of the sectors and geographical locations to the Company in that year.
Non-Executive The fee is paid monthly in cash.
The maximum aggregate No contractual Director Fee amount of basic fees payable provisions for Fee structure includes an annual base To attract and retain to all Directors shall not clawback or malus.
fee for a Non-Executive Director and may expert people with the exceed the 1 million limit set include additional fees for being the appropriate degree of in the Companys Articles of Senior Independent Director or a Board expertise and Association.
Normally, any increases will be Reviewed annually by the Executive within the normal percentage Directors and the Chairman, with any range and guidelines that changes normally becoming effective in are applied to the UK-based April each year.
monthly paid employees of the Company in that year.
The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance and appropriate market data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity in similar sectors and geographical locations to the Company.
Travel and expenses The Company may reimburse expenses Not performance linked.
The maximum reimbursement No contractual To support the Directors and travel costs reasonably incurred by is expenses reasonably provisions for in the fulfilment of their the Chairman and the Non-Executive incurred, together with any clawback or malus.
Directors in fulfilment of the Companys taxes thereon.
business, together with any taxes thereon.
Other arrangements The Chairman and the Non-Executive Not applicable.
The maximum staff product Not applicable.
Directors are not usually eligible for discount is that offered to any annual bonus, share incentive schemes, Group employees.
pensions or other benefits with the The maximum value of the exception of the staff product discount Directors and Officers Liability and free delivery offered to all employees.
Insurance and the Companys The Company provides the Chairman and indemnity is the cost at the the Non-Executive Directors with Directors relevant time.
and Officers Liability Insurance and may provide an indemnity to the fullest extent permitted by the Companies Act.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 84 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Notes to the Policy Tables: 1.
No other items in the nature of remuneration are provided by the Company to its Non-Executive Directors, save for the amounts paid to Robert Gorrie as described on page 96.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
In the case of the Sharesave and SIP, these tax advantaged all-employee schemes are subject to rules constrained by legislation and so awards are made on the same terms not comprising performance conditions to all employees including Executive Directors.
Prior to the Companys listing in 2010, some option awards were made to the Executive Directors under the ESOS without performance conditions.
Options were awarded under the ESOS to Duncan TattonBrown on his appointment to the Board.
Although awards will not usually be made to existing Executive Directors, the rules of the ESOS and 2014 ESOS allow the Remuneration Committee to impose performance conditions on any awards made to a Director under each plan.
Performance targets apply to the AIP, LTIP and GIP.
a. AIP the Remuneration Committee adjusts the design including measures and weightings of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
Management proposes suitable metrics and levels of performance to form the threshold and stretch levels of performance.
Any individual objectives applicable for the AIP are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
The measurable objectives are agreed between the Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, between him and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the proposed targets to assess whether they are appropriately aligned with the strategy and shareholders interests and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Director is appropriate in the circumstances.
Usually, full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the AIP performance measures are outlined in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
b. LTIP the Remuneration Committee reviews the design of the LTIP each year to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant to the Companys key strategic objectives over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance measures in light of the long-term strategic plan and agrees the threshold and stretch conditions that must be achieved.
Full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the LTIP performance measures are outlined in the Annual report on remuneration.
c. GIP the GIP performance measure was designed to incentivise outstanding growth in value of the Group over the five-year performance period.
The performance measure requires the growth in the Company share price to be significantly more than the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period.
This helps to ensure alignment with shareholders, as full vesting will only occur where outstanding shareholder value is created.
The Directors Remuneration Policy contains formal components for short and long-term incentives with performance conditions attached.
While the Group has a policy of remunerating its employees through share scheme participation, it does not have formal remuneration arrangements for all employees akin to all of the components of Directors remuneration.
In the case of the Management Committee, they participate in an annual bonus plan and the longterm incentive schemes, including the LTIP and the JSOS, with award levels set at lower percentages of salary than those of the Directors.
The performance conditions and most other terms of these schemes are the same as for the Executive Directors.
The bonus plan for senior management does not include provision for share deferral of a payment.
The LTIP awards from 2017 for senior management do not include holding periods.
In the case of some small groups of senior employees, the Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements such as the JSOS, cash-based long-term incentive scheme and management incentive plan.
Aside from these targeted arrangements and the SIP, the ESOS and the Sharesave, the variable remuneration of employees is not closely aligned with that of Directors.
com 85 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report DIRECTOR MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING EXPECTATION It is the policy of the Company that the Directors are expected to build up over a period of time, and hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
This is considered an effective way to align the interests of the Executive Directors and the shareholders in the long-term.
These shareholding expectations are outlined in the table below.
Director Shareholding Expectation Executive Directors Executive Directors are expected to hold shares equivalent to 200% of base salary.
This holding can be built up over five years from appointment.
Share awards may count if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
The net value of share interests and share awards which are vested, but remain subject to a holding period and or clawback, may count towards the shareholding requirement.
Until the minimum shareholding is met, an Executive Director must defer up to 50% of any cash bonus payable under the AIP as an award of shares.
Chairman The Chairman is expected to hold shares equivalent to one years annual fee.
This holding can be built up over three years from appointment.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are expected to hold shares equivalent to one years annual fee.
Should the minimum shareholding expectation be met but the market To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may, to the extent value of the Companys shares subsequently fall below the required level, permitted by relevant plan rules or Listing Rules, make a one-off award to compliance with this expectation will be based on the higher of the original buy out incentives or any other compensation arrangements forfeited by share purchase price or the price at vesting in the case of share awards or the appointee on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration current market price.
Committee will ensure that any such awards offered should be on a comparable basis, taking into account all relevant factors including any APPROACH TO REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS ON RECRUITMENT performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the Recruitment of Executive Directors proportion of the vesting or performance period remaining and the form of the When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed Executive Director, award.
In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the the Remuneration Committee will apply a number of principles.
Remuneration Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package of a newly appointed Executive Director with the Directors Remuneration Policy In addition, one-off payments in respect of relocation or ongoing relocation outlined above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion allowances may be made to a newly appointed Executive Director.
However, to include any other remuneration component or award in the remuneration these payments must reflect actual financial loss or cost of moving the package which it considers to be appropriate.
Executive Director, their family or assets, and the market practice in the geographical location to which the Executive Director is moving to or from.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director, The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services or a cash the Remuneration Committee will take into account all relevant factors payment or a combination of both.
including but not limited to the specific circumstances, the calibre of the individual, the market practice for the candidates location, the nature of the The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded upon recruitment role they are being recruited to fulfil and any relevant market factors, including excluding any buy out awards or costs and allowances on relocation any competing offers the candidate may be considering.
The Remuneration and awards made to appointees under the GIP is 600% of base salary.
Any Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is GIP awards will be subject to the award limits set out in the remuneration necessary.
The Remuneration Committees considerations would be subject to policy table.
the overall limit on variable remuneration outlined below.
Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors Where promotion to an Executive Director role is from within the Company, The remuneration package for newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will any performance-related pay element arising from their previous role will be in line with the structure set out in the remuneration policy table for Noncontinue on its original terms, provided such element if not otherwise within Executive Directors.
the terms of this policy was not made in contemplation of such person becoming an Executive Director.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 86 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that LOSS OF SERVICE OR TERMINATION POLICY are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Non-Executive Directors letter Service Contracts for Executive Directors of appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments Each of the Executive Directors is employed pursuant to a service contract for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors with Ocado Central Services Limited.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that an Executive Directors Payments on Cessation of Employment for Executive Directors employment may be terminated by the Company giving to the Executive The Executive Director service contracts do not oblige the Company to pay Director not less than 12 months notice or by the Executive Director giving to a bonus if the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
But under the Company not less than six months notice.
the rules of the AIP, the Executive Director may receive a proportion of the The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that if an Executive Directors bonus or deferred award that the Remuneration Committee determines service contract is terminated without cause, Ocado Central Services Limited would otherwise have been payable or granted to him under the rules for the can request that the Executive Director work their notice period, take a period financial year.
of garden leave or pay an amount in lieu of notice equal to one times their The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant basic salary, benefits and pension for the remainder of their notice period.
scheme rules, all of which have been approved by shareholders.
The table on While the service contracts do not specify this, the Companys remuneration page 88 provides a summary of these leaver provisions.
The Remuneration principles provide that any payments should be reduced in certain Committee generally has discretion to determine the treatment of a leaver, but circumstances where the Executive Directors loss has been mitigated, for will be conscious of the remuneration principle that it should not reward poor example, where he moves to other employment.
The service contracts do not contain any specific provisions relating to a change of control of the business.
Payments on Cessation of Service for Non-Executive Directors A Non-Executive Director is not entitled to any other payment on cessation of If employment is terminated by the Company, the Remuneration Committee service with the Company.
retains a discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably payable to the Executive Director including legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in MALUS AND CLAWBACK PROVISIONS connection with the termination of employment and obtaining independent The AIP, LTIP and GIP scheme rules contain malus and or clawback provisions legal advice on a settlement or compromise agreement, and the relocation that allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce or retrieve a payment or an costs for returning the departing Executive Director and his family to their award.
The Remuneration Committee will do so when there are exceptional original country of origin.
The Company may provide relocation costs by circumstances.
Such exceptional circumstances include without limitation funding services, or cash payment or a combination of both.
a material mis-statement in the published results of the Group, an error in assessing any applicable performance condition, misconduct on the part of Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that the Executive Director concerned and where, as a result of an appropriate are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Executive Director service contract review of accountability, the Remuneration Committee determines that the that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, Executive Director has caused wholly or in part a material loss for the Group as but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
a result of i reckless, negligent or wilful actions or ii inappropriate values or Letters of Appointment for Non-Executive Directors behaviour.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that a Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one months notice, or in the case of the Chairman, not less than six months notice.
com 87 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report SHARE SCHEME LEAVER PROVISIONS The incentive schemes contain leaver provisions that cover arrangements for awards where a participant leaves employment with the Group, as set out in the relevant scheme rules and summarised below.
Remuneration Element Bad Leavers Good Leavers LTIP Generally, unvested LTIP awards If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group for a good leaver reason e. g. ill health, injury and vested LTIP options will lapse or permanent disability, then his LTIP awards which have not vested will vest on the vesting date or on the date the participant ceases earlier as the Remuneration Committee shall determine but only to the extent that the performance to be an employee.
conditions have been satisfied subject to operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed to the date of cessation of employment.
The LTIP awards will normally continue to be subject to the post-vesting holding period.
If a participant dies, his LTIP awards will vest on the date of his death and the performance conditions will not apply but unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of death.
The post-vesting holding period will not apply to his LTIP awards.
To the extent that LTIP options vest in accordance with the above provisions, they may usually be exercised for a period of 12 months following vesting or such longer period as the Remuneration Committee may decide and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
To the extent that a participant who leaves in circumstances other than dismissal for cause or who dies holding vested LTIP options, they may be exercised at any time during the usual exercise period and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
The post-vesting holding period will continue to apply except in the event of a participants death unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The Company may apply the post-vesting holding period to an LTIP award or to any part of it in one of two ways: i to vested awards where the underlying shares are retained by the Company for the duration of the holding period and are only transferred to participants on expiry of such period: or ii to vested awards where the underlying shares are transferred to the participant on vesting but which remain subject to additional restrictions such as transfer or sale until expiry of the holding period.
GIP See LTIP above, as the same leaver See LTIP above, as the same leaver rules apply except with respect to holding periods which do not rules apply except with respect to apply to GIP awards.
holding periods which do not apply to GIP awards.
JSOS If a participant is a bad leaver i. e. The participants interest shall continue to vest on the same dates as if that participant had he is neither a good leaver nor a remained in employment so long as the participant remains a good leaver.
very bad leaver, he would retain Should the participant die before a tranche vests, the participants interest will vest entirely on the his vested interests on ceasing to be date of death.
an employee, but unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
In the case of a very bad leaver i. e. has or could have been dismissed for cause or is in material breach of an obligation binding after termination, both vested and unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
Deferred Shares Deferred share awards will lapse An Executive Director will retain his deferred share award on ceasing employment with the Group Under the AIP on the date the Executive Director and will receive the award at the usual vesting date in accordance with the plan rules, subject to the ceases to be an employee.
operation of clawback and malus provisions.
All-Employee Share Leavers will be treated within the Leavers will be treated within the scheme rules.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 88 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by CHANGE OF CONTROL the Board.
The Board would not usually agree to an Executive Director taking The incentive schemes contain change of control provisions, as set out in the on more than one non-executive directorship of a listed or public company relevant scheme rules.
or the chairmanship of such a company.
It is the Companys policy that Under the LTIP, in the event of a takeover of the Company, LTIP awards will remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance and other conditions Executive Director.
have been satisfied at that time, ii the operation of malus or clawback, and iii unless the Remuneration Committee decides that pro-rating would Payments Which are not in Accordance with the Policy be inappropriate in the particular circumstances pro-rating to reflect the The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration proportion of the normal performance period that has elapsed at the date of payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions that event.
The Remuneration Committee may, in its discretion, determine available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they that the post-vesting holding period will no longer apply to an LTIP Award or are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment to any part of it as of the vesting date or on such later date as decided by the were agreed: i before 7 May 2014 the date the Companys first  Committee.
approved directors remuneration policy came into effect: ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment Under the GIP, if there is a change of control of the Company, options may were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors remuneration be exercised early subject to the performance target being satisfied, and in policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the proportion to the amount of the performance period that has elapsed.
relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion Under the AIP, deferred share awards vest early on a change of control, though of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration the Remuneration Committee has discretion to not release the award early for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes and instead roll the award into an equivalent award in the acquiring company.
payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of Under the terms of the JSOS rules, in the event of an offer a participant may the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
request the EBT Trustee to accept the offer with respect to shares that have vested under the JSOS.
Minor Amendments The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy Read more about agreements impacted by a change of control in the for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take Directors Report on pages 113 to 114. account of a change in legislation without seeking shareholder approval for that amendment.
OTHER REMUNERATION External Appointments for Executive Directors It is the Companys policy and a requirement of the contract of employment that the Executive Director may not take up non-executive directorships or other appointments without the approval of the Board.
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nomination Committee or the Board to ILLUSTRATION OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The bar charts on page 90 provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the Executive Directors based on the Directors Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 74 to 90.
Base Salary, Benefits AIP LTIP GIP and Pension Minimum Performance is below threshold on Performance is below threshold on Performance is growth in the FTSE Fixed each metric.
100 Share Index plus not more than 5% p. a.
Target or at Performance is in line with the Threshold performance is reached.
Performance is growth in the FTSE Fixed Expectation Companys expectations.
Maximum Maximum performance is achieved Maximum performance is achieved Performance is growth in the FTSE Fixed on each metric.
com 89 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report The figures use the 2016 base salary and pension see pages 98 and 99 of the 2016 annual report and value of benefits received for 2016 see page 99 of the 2016 annual report.
The performance related pay figures are based on the potential awards for 2017 see pages 99 to 100 of the 2016 annual report, but it should be noted that LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For the purposes of illustrating the Directors Remuneration Policy, it is assumed that the LTIP awards granted in 2017 will also be vesting in 2017.
The estimated value of the GIP is calculated using a share price of 281 pence per share, being the average share price of the final three months of the 2016 reporting period.
It is also assumed that the GIP will vest in 2019.
The estimated remuneration for each Executive Director is based on three different levels of performance, set out below.
In all scenarios, the impact of share price movements on the value of the LTIP awards has been excluded.
TIM STEINER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER m Minimum 93% 7% Target 14% 11% 7% 67% 1% Maximum 4% 5% 9% 81% 1% 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP GIP DUNCAN TATTON-BROWN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER m Minimum 93% 7% Target 25% 16% 9% 48% 2% Maximum 9% 9% 13% 68% 1% 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP GIP NEILL ABRAMS, GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY m Minimum 93% 7% Target 50% 31% 15% 4% Maximum 30% 30% 37% 3% 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP MARK RICHARDSON, CHIEF OPERATIONS OFFICER m Minimum 93% 7% Target 25% 16% 9% 48% 2% Maximum 9% 9% 13% 68% 1% 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Salary and benefits Pension AIP LTIP GIP Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 90 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 2017 Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Directors remuneration paid in respect of the 2017 financial year.
It sets out the payments to Directors and details of the link between Company performance and remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
This part, together with the Description of the Remuneration Committee section on pages 72 and 73 constitutes the Annual Report on Remuneration, and will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Companys AGM.
Highlights for 2017 audited This table briefly summarises the highlights of the Directors remuneration arrangements for the financial year.
Base Pay and Benefits Pension AIP Long-Term Incentives All-Employee Schemes Base pay increase of 2.75% for Company contributions Total bonus earned by Awards were granted under Ongoing participation in the the Executive Directors, in line to pensions for Executive Executive Directors for 2017 the LTIP.
Directors, which are currently based on achievement of For the 2015 LTIP awards, Sharesave options lapsed significantly below the 41.5% to 42% of performance Non-Executive Directors fees which are due to vest in during the period.
maximum provided for under target, was 745,282 2016: were not changed in the period.
March 2018, achievement the 2017 Policy, did not 759,953. was 25%.
No change to taxable benefits.
TOTAL DIRECTOR REMUNERATION AUDITED The total remuneration paid to all of the Directors during the period was 3,531,000.
The detailed remuneration breakdown for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors is set out separately.
com 91 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Total Remuneration audited The total remuneration for the period for each of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below.
Total cash-based remuneration paid to the Executive Directors was 2,488,000 in 2017, which was 0.6% higher than in 2016 2,472,000.
The value of LTIP awards for 2014 included in the column for the 2016 financial year has been restated to show the actual vested amount based on the vesting of the award on 31 March 2017 at a price of 249.007 pence per share.
The actual vested amount is 48,500 lower than the estimated vested amount stated in the 2016 annual report of 507,000.
The estimated vested amount was based on the three-month average share price from 1 September 2016 to 27 November 2016 of 275.42 pence per share.
The value of LTIP awards for 2015 included in the column for the Financial Year has been estimated based on 25% vesting and the three-month average share price from 1 September 2017 to 3 December 2017 of 288.239 pence per share, as these awards are not capable of vesting until after the end of the period, on 22 March 2018.
This value assumes no dividends will be payable.
The value assumes that the participant will not be required to pay an amount to acquire the conditional shares, being the nominal price of 2 pence per share.
These estimated figures will be restated in next years annual report.
A savings contract under the Sharesave scheme matured on 1 December 2016.
A value of nil is shown in the table for this award, which is explained on page 95 of this report.
Under the Share Incentive Plan, awards of Free Shares and Matching Shares became unrestricted during the period.
These awards are explained on page 102 of this report.
An explanation of each element of remuneration paid in the table is set out in the following section.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already disclosed in this report.
Base Salary audited During the period, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors.
After taking into account a number of relevant factors which are discussed in more detail below, the Remuneration Committee recommended that all basic salaries be increased.
The following table shows the change in each Executive Directors salary.
Salary 2017 Salary 2016 Director Effective from Tim Steiner 594,000 577,830 1 April 2017 Duncan Tatton-Brown 367,000 357,204 1 April 2017 Mark Richardson 367,000 357,204 1 April 2017 Neill Abrams 308,000 300,000 1 April 2017 The changes to base salary were made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Executive Directors received an increase in base pay of 2.75% rounded accordingly which was in line with the percentage salary increases for the monthly paid employees of the Group in the period.
The increases, which position the salaries broadly around the market median for a company of the Companys size and complexity, also aim to help retain the Executive Directors.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 92 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Taxable Benefits audited The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, notably private medical insurance and travel insurance.
The Executive Directors also received other benefits, which are not taxable, including income protection insurance, life assurance and Group-wide employee benefits, such as an employee discount.
The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors do not include a Company car or car cash allowance, but the Executive Directors have access to a chauffeur to drive a car for the purposes of attending business meetings.
Non-business use of the chauffeur is tracked and is shown as a taxable benefit in the total remuneration table to the extent it was used for that purpose.
These benefits arrangements were made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy which allows the Company to provide a broad range of employee benefits.
Pensions audited The Company made pension contributions on behalf of the Executive Directors to the defined contribution Group personal pension scheme.
The employer contributions to the pension scheme in respect of each Executive Director are made in line with the Group personal pension scheme for all employees the Company contributions being, for employees and Executive Directors joining the pension scheme before May 2013, from 3% up to 8%, for employees joining the scheme after May 2013, from 3% up to 6%, depending on the number of years the employee or Executive Director has participated in the scheme and for employees and Executive Directors joining the scheme after October 2017 up to 7%.
The contributions during the period made on behalf of the Executive Directors were 8% of base salary.
These contributions were made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy which allows the Company to make employer contributions of up to 30% of base salary.
Pension contributions can be made to the Executive Directors and any other employee as a cash allowance where the Executive Director or employee has reached either the HMRC annual tax free limit or HMRC lifetime allowance limit for pension contributions as provided for in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
In accordance with this policy, Tim Steiner, Mark Richardson and Neill Abrams have elected to receive their part of their pension contributions as an equivalent cash allowance.
Duncan Tatton-Brown has elected to receive all of his pension contribution as cash in line with the Company policy.
Annual Incentive Plan audited The Remuneration Committee re-examines the design of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
The 2017 AIP was based on the performance targets and weightings set out below.
Financial performance measures, namely Gross A A Sales Retail and EBITDA for the Group, were the primary targets, with 70% of the annual bonus being determined by performance against targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year, by reference to the Companys budget for the period.
Of the balance, 30% related to individual objectives for each of the Directors, largely independent of the financial objectives.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed threshold and maximum conditions that must be achieved.
A bonus is not payable unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a financial performance measure, 8.75% of total bonus is payable and at maximum performance, 35% of total bonus is payable.
A straight-line sliding scale will apply in relation to the intermediate points between the threshold and maximum.
Each target was discrete and could be earned separately.
The Chief Executive Officer had a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary and the other Executive Directors had a maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Financial objectives A EBITDA % of total target 35 35 35 35 A Gross Sales Retail % of total target 35 35 35 35 Individual objectives % of total target 30 30 30 30 Examples of business area objectives 1.
Deliver progress key Drive sufficient cost Increase capacity at Support all Ocado projects including new challenge for operational Andover CFC Solutions contractual CFCs and technology programmes negotiations 2.
Increase business Prepare and execute a Launch Morrisons Ensure head office development capability financing strategy for store pick functions continue to in Ocado Solutions future growth service changing business needs See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 93 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Financial Targets and Individual Targets Each Executive Director had five to six individual objectives, with different weightings, under the plan.
They related to specific programmes relevant to each Executive Directors business area for which they have primary responsibility.
All of the Executive Directors had an individual objective which concerned the strategic plans for the Ocado Solutions business.
The Remuneration Committee also considered environmental, social and governance issues when setting the individual objectives.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of each Executive Director against the measurable performance metrics and based their judgement on a scoring report by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman.
A A The Groups Gross Sales Retail were 1,429.1 million for 52 weeks, which was above the threshold of 1,400 million set under the 2017 AIP.
The Groups EBITDA pre-exceptional items for 52 weeks was 84.3 million, which was below the threshold of 88 million set under the 2017 AIP.
The Remuneration Committee, in assessing performance, took into account the level of the Groups trading performance compared with UK grocery retail peers and the Groups progress against its strategic objectives.
All Executive Directors met to some extent their individual objectives, with achievement being scored between 81% and 83% of maximum.
There is no threshold or maximum target set for the individual objectives.
Each objective is weighted and scored to provide a total score out of 30.
Performance may range from zero to 30.
The applicable salary used for calculating the bonus payment under the rules of the 2017 AIP is the applicable base salary on the date of payment.
Disclosure of Targets The threshold and maximum targets and achievement against the targets have been disclosed in respect of the financial targets for the AIP.
A broad description of some of the Executive Directors individual objectives has been provided, but specific details concerning the individual objectives and performance against them has not been disclosed in this report.
Although the Remuneration Committee is conscious of the regulations and the Code requirement that performance targets should be transparent, it considers that the individual objectives were and remain commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
These individual objectives mostly relate to important business strategies and actions and consequently could hinder the progress of the business or the Groups competitive advantage if publicly disclosed.
The Remuneration Committee does not expect to disclose this information at a later date.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the targets were stretching and have been rigorously applied.
Summary of Bonus Earned The Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy and the rules of the 2017 AIP, recommended an aggregate bonus payment under the plan for the period of 745,282 2016: 759,953, based on achievement between 41.5% and 42% of maximum 2016: achievement of 43% to 44% of maximum.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this level of bonus payment appropriately reflects the performance of the business and individual A performance during the period, which saw strong sales and customer growth and progress with strategic objectives, but which saw Group EBITDA in line with prior year due to increased costs.
The table above summarises the bonus payments for each Executive Director for the 2017 AIP.
The cash payments are expected to be made in February 2018.
No amount has been deferred to a later date given that under the rules of the AIP deferral does not apply as all of the Executive Directors have met the minimum shareholding expectations under the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Long Term Incentives and Share Plans Awards granted under long-term incentive plans and share plans only count towards the total remuneration figure for the period in which they vest or where achievement of performance targets is determined in the period.
Awards under most of the Companys share plans are subject to three-year vesting periods and therefore awards made or exercised during the period will not necessarily be reflected in the total remuneration figure for this period.
Further details on all the existing share incentives held by the Executive Directors are set out below.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 94 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance LTIP The LTIP is the primary long-term incentive for the Executive Directors.
The LTIP awards help reward the Executive Directors for the delivery of long-term business objectives.
The three-year performance period for the 2015 LTIP awards expired at the end of the financial year.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance against the four equally weighted performance conditions for the 2017 financial year.
The four performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP awards were retail A Revenue, adjusted retail EBT, platform operational efficiency and platform capital efficiency.
Retail Revenue represented 25% of the award.
As noted on page 32, the retail Revenue for the period was 1,317.4 million for 52 weeks, which was an increase of 12.4% on 2016 and an increase of 27.4% between 2015 and 2017, but which fell below the threshold of 1,330.0 million set under the LTIP award.
The revenue used as a performance criteria for the LTIP includes retail revenue generated by Ocado.
com and the other retail sites Fetch, Sizzle and Fabled but excludes revenue from Morrisons and the Solutions business.
Consequently, achievement against this performance target was nil.
Adjusted retail EBT for the period was 12.8 million, which fell below the threshold of 14.8 million set under the LTIP award.
This measure is not consistent with the segmental reporting changes made in 2017.
The performance target for adjusted retail EBT is based on Group EBT less an apportionment of certain costs in a number of areas relating to the Solutions business and based on 52 weeks.
Platform operational efficiency and platform capital efficiency represented 25% of the award each and achievement against each was 0% and 25% respectively.
Specific details of achievement against these targets has not been disclosed in this report, although overall achievement has been.
The first concerns the operational efficiency of the platform solution for the Financial Year and the second covers the capital cost for the platform.
Although the Remuneration Committee is conscious of the regulations and the Code requirement that performance targets should be transparent, it considers that disclosure of the achievement against these specific targets remains commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the targets were stretching and have been applied vigorously.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy and the rules of the LTIP, recommended overall vesting of 25% for the 2015 LTIP awards.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this level of vesting appropriately reflects the performance of the business during the performance period.
Details of performance are set out in the table below.
The value of the 2015 LTIP awards in the total remuneration table is estimated based on the average Company share price for the final three months of the period, being 288.239 pence per share.
The expected vesting date of the 2015 LTIP award is 22 March 2018.
Subject to the continued satisfaction of the award conditions, final vesting will be determined.
None of the 2015 LTIP awards that vest will be subject to deferral as they were awarded to participants under the 2014 directors remuneration policy and therefore are not subject to deferral.
Platform Platform Operational Capital Retail Revenue Adjusted retail EBT Efficiency Efficiency Total vesting Performance Performance Target Performance Achievement Target Performance Achievement Achievement Achievement % of % of % of % of % of Director Threshold Maximum Actual Maximum Threshold Maximum Actual Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum 000 Tim Steiner 1,330.0m 1,430.0m 1,317.4 0% 14.8m 22.8m 12.8 0% 0% 25% 25% 210 Duncan Tatton-Brown 1,330.0m 1,430.0m 1,317.4 0% 14.8m 22.8m 12.8 0% 0% 25% 25% 97 Neill Abrams 1,330.0m 1,430.0m 1,317.4 0% 14.8m 22.8m 12.8 0% 0% 25% 25% 65 Mark Richardson 1,330.0m 1,430.0m 1,317.4 0% 14.8m 22.8m 12.8 0% 0% 25% 25% 97 1.
An award will not vest unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a financial performance measure, 6.25% of the total award will vest and 25% vesting will occur for achieving or exceeding maximum performance for a condition.
A straight-line sliding scale applies in relation to the intermediate points between the threshold and maximum.
Details of the number of conditional shares awarded to each Director for the 2015 LTIP awards are shown in the table on page 100.
This measure is used by the Remuneration Committee to assess management performance for the 2015 LTIP only.
It is not considered an Alternative Performance Measure.
Sharesave A three-year savings contract under the Sharesave scheme matured on 1 December 2016.
Tim Steiner, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Neill Abrams each held 2,987 Sharesave options at this date.
At the date of vesting, the share price of 264 pence per share was lower than the exercise price of 301 pence per share, meaning that the options had no value on vesting.
During the exercise period, which ended in May 2017, the share price did not rise higher than the exercise price, and therefore the options lapsed and the Directors withdrew the value of their savings of 9,000 each.
Accordingly, a value of nil is shown in the Directors remuneration table.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 95 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Share Incentive Plan The 2014 award of free shares made under the SIP became unrestricted during the period on 10 September 2017.
Certain matching shares also became unrestricted during the period.
Free shares and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a three-year forfeiture period starting from the date of grant.
This means that if an Executive Director ceases to be employed by the Group during the three-year period, the free shares and matching shares will be forfeited.
Partnership shares purchased under the SIP are not included in the total remuneration table as these are purchased by the Executive Directors from their salary, rather than granted by the Company as an element of remuneration.
Only the value of free shares and matching shares that became unrestricted during the period are shown in the total remuneration table.
This is the first period in which shares became unrestricted.
The value shown is the value of the shares on the date that they became unrestricted.
Unrestricted shares can be held in Trust under the SIP for as long as the participant remains an employee of the Company.
Recovery of Sums Paid audited No sums paid or payable to the Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Total Fees audited The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period are set out in the remuneration table below.
With the exception of Robert Gorrie who received other remuneration as set out below, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Group other than their annual fee.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award of 452,284 shares vested on 10 May 2016.
It was a one-off award made on Lord Roses appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The value on vesting was calculated using the closing share price of 295 pence per share on the day of vesting.
Further details of the award can be found in the 2016 annual report.
David Grigson retired from the Board with effect from the 2016 annual general meeting.
His fee in the prior year was 30,000.
Robert Gorrie retired from the Board with effect from the 2017 annual general meeting on 3 May 2017.
Alex Mahon retired from the Board with effect from 13 December 2017.
The fees paid during 2017 are therefore her full fee and the following periods fees will be disclosed in the 2018 annual report.
The remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors except the Chairman were reviewed by the Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period and the basic fees for non-executive directors were not changed 2016: 50,000.
The review was carried out by the Executive Directors and Chairman in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy and accordingly took into account the responsibility and time commitments of the roles of the Non-Executive Directors and Board committee chairmen, the financial position and trading performance of the business, and the appropriate benchmark data provided by Deloitte for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Group.
The Chairmans fee was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and was not changed.
The Chairmans fee has not changed since the Chairmans appointment in March 2013.
Other Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors audited In addition to the fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to a staff shopping discount in line with the Groups employees.
Until his retirement from the Board, Robert Gorrie chaired the meetings of the Ocado National Council and occasionally provided advice on various employee matters, in addition to his role as a Non-Executive Director.
He provided these services through Robert Gorrie Limited of which he is the sole shareholder and was paid a per diem fee for these services.
These fees are included in the related party transactions with key management personnel in Note 5.4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Non-Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already referred to in this report.
Recovery of Sums Paid audited No sums paid or payable to the Non-Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 96 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance OTHER REMUNERATION DISCLOSURES Executive Directors Service Contracts Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Group.
The terms of these contracts are consistent with the Directors Remuneration Policy, though the contracts provide for payment in lieu of notice of one times basic salary only and do not include other fixed elements of pay, which are permitted by the policy.
The service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are continuous until terminated by either party on 12 months notice if terminated by the Company, or six months notice if terminated by the Director.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and were appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the annual general meeting.
There are no provisions in the letters of appointment for payment for early termination.
A NonExecutive Director appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one months notice, except in the case of the Chairman, which requires six months notice by either party.
A copy of a pro forma Non-Executive Director letter of appointment is available on the Companys corporate website.
Copies of the letters of appointment and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Deferral or Holding Periods audited The 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy introduced a holding period of two years from the third anniversary of the date of grant under the LTIP.
This is explained on page 80.
Under the AIP, up to 50% of any bonus payment will be deferred into shares, vesting after a period of three years, to the extent that an Executive Director does not meet the minimum shareholding.
The other Executive Director share schemes including the GIP do not contain any requirements for Directors to retain shares post vesting.
However, the Remuneration Committee feels that their absence is materially mitigated by the existing large shareholdings held by the Executive Directors in the Company and by the five-year vesting period that applies to the GIP.
Such factors help create a longer term focus from the Executive Directors and strong alignment with shareholders, as envisaged by Code principle D. 1.
Director Retirement Arrangements and Payments for Loss of Office audited As announced on 18 November 2016 and 14 December 2017, it was determined in accordance with the 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy and the Directors' Remuneration Policy respectively that the arrangements set out below should apply in relation to Robert Gorries and Alex Mahon's remuneration on retirement.
Element of Remuneration Treatment Remuneration Payments All outstanding fees were paid to Robert Gorrie up to 3 May 2017 in accordance with the terms of his letter of appointment.
No payments are expected after the date of retirement, although Robert Gorrie was continued to be paid a fee for services to the Group not in a Director capacity as explained on page 96.
All outstanding fees were paid to Alex Mahon up to 13 December 2017 in accordance with the terms of her letter of appointment.
No payments are expected after the date of retirement.
Payment for Loss of Office No payment for loss of office or other remuneration payment was made or is expected to be made to Robert Gorrie or Alex Mahon.
Share Schemes At the time of retirement, neither Robert Gorrie nor Alex Mahon was a participant in a Group share scheme.
Director Appointment Arrangements audited As announced on 18 November 2016, Emma Lloyd was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2016.
Emma Lloyds remuneration is in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
On appointment, Emma Lloyds basic annual fee was 50,000, which was in line with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Emma Lloyd will not receive any other benefits or payments, in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Payments to Past Directors audited The Company does not have any arrangements for payments to any former Directors of the Company.
Enforcing the Directors Remuneration Policy The Company has not made any payments to a Director outside of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
All of the decisions regarding executive remuneration for the period have been made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
No Director has options over Company shares outside one of the Companys recognised share schemes.
com 97 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report External Remuneration for Executive Directors As at the date of this Annual Report: In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Neill Abrams is an alternate non-executive director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Neill.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Duncan Tatton-Brown is an independent non-executive director, senior independent director and audit committee chairman of Zoopla Property Group plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
For his services to Zoopla Property Group plc Duncan was paid a fee of 65,000 in 2017.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Mark Richardson is a non-executive director of Paneltex Limited.
This role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Mark.
DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED The table below shows the beneficial interests in the Companys shares of Directors serving at the end of the period, and their connected persons, as shareholders and as discretionary beneficiaries under trusts.
The table also shows current compliance with the Director shareholding requirements in the Directors Remuneration Policy as at the date of this Annual Report.
All Directors comply with the Director shareholding requirements.
Ordinary Shares of 2 Pence Ordinary Shares of 2 Pence Minimum each held at each held at Shareholding 3 December 2017 27 November 2016 Requirement Complied with Direct Indirect Indirect % of Base Shareholding Director Holding Holding Direct Holding Holding Salary or Fee Requirement?
Basis for compliance Tim Steiner 15,245,052 14,293,130 15,205,557 14,292,464 200 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Lord Rose 1,202,284 1,202,284 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Duncan Tatton-Brown 583,041 61,869 561,363 61,247 200 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Mark Richardson 265,530 6,994 243,808 6,328 200 Yes JSOS and SIP interests Neill Abrams 768,867 1,319,704 754,386 1,319,048 200 Yes Direct shareholdings Ruth Anderson 80,000 80,000 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Andrew Harrison 18,166 11,500 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Emma Lloyd 17,300 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Douglas McCallum 100,000 100,000 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Jrn Rausing 69,015,602 69,015,602 100 Yes Indirect shareholdings Alex Mahon 17,355 17,355 100 Yes Direct shareholdings 1.
The indirect holding for Neill Abrams includes holdings of Caryn Abrams wife of Neill Abrams who holds 79,701 2016: 79,701 ordinary shares, Daniella Abrams daughter of Neill Abrams who holds 1,363 2016: 1,363 ordinary shares, Mia Abrams daughter of Neill Abrams who holds 1,363 2016: 1,363 ordinary shares, Joshua Abrams son of Neill Abrams who holds 1,363 2016: 1,363 ordinary shares and as a discretionary beneficiary of a trust holding 133,100 2016: 133,100 ordinary shares.
The indirect holding for Duncan Tatton-Brown includes a holding by Kate Tatton-Brown wife of Duncan Tatton-Brown who holds 59,889 2016: 59,934 ordinary shares.
The indirect holding for Mark Richardson includes a holding by Rebecca Richardson wife of Mark Richardson who holds 4,970 2016: 4,970 ordinary shares.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the shares issued or options granted by the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the period and the date of this Annual Report, except shares held pursuant to the SIP, as set out on pages 102 to 103.
There have been no changes in the Directors beneficial interests in trusts holding ordinary shares of the Company.
No Director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries at the beginning or end of the period.
Tim Steiner has granted a security interest over his ordinary shares in the Company.
The security interest was granted in connection with a loan made to him.
For further details, refer to the Companys announcement made on 28 November 2016.
The security interest was granted over 15,197,812 ordinary shares in the Company and any further ordinary shares held by Tim Steiner from time to time.
Arthur Seligman as trustee of the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust, of which Tim Steiner is one of a number of discretionary beneficiaries, granted a security interest over 14,291,200 ordinary shares in the Company.
On 24 November 2017, Arthur Seligman, as trustee of the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust, transferred the 14,291,200 ordinary shares in the Company to Linic Ltd, a company wholly owned by Arthur Seligman, as trustee of the Steiner 2008 Millennium Trust.
The existing security interest over the shares was therefore released and a new security interest granted on similar terms on 24 November 2017.
The shares therefore remain subject to a security interest.
There was no change in the underlying beneficial ownership of the shares.
On 13 May 2016, in respect of various contracts for the transfer of shares as described on pages 235 and 238 of the Prospectus, Tim Steiner delayed the date on which completion under the contracts for transfer would take place to 30 June 2019, or such later date as the parties may agree.
As a result of the security interest granted over Tim Steiners ordinary shares in the Company see footnote 6, the completion of these contracts is conditional on the release of the security interest.
On 11 May 2016, in respect of various contracts for the transfer of shares as described on pages 235 and 238 of the Prospectus, Neill Abrams delayed the date on which completion under the contracts for transfer would take place to 30 June 2019, or such later date as the parties may agree.
Where applicable, the above indirect holdings include SIP Partnership Shares held under the SIP, which are held in trust.
The Executive Director shareholdings have increased during the period primarily due to the vesting of the 2014 LTIP awards.
During the year, Non-Executive Director Robert Gorrie retired from the Board.
Robert Gorrie held 415,660 ordinary shares at 27 November 2016 and on the date of his retirement on 3 May 2017, therefore complying with the shareholding requirement up to this date.
His shareholdings were held directly.
Following the period end, Alex Mahon retired from the Board.
Alex Mahon held 17,355 ordinary shares at 3 December 2017 and on the date of her retirement on 13 December 2017, therefore complying with the shareholding requirements up to this date.
Her shareholdings were held directly.
Where an Executive Director does not meet the minimum shareholding requirement, up to 50% of any cash bonus payable under the AIP as an award of shares must be deferred.
The assessment for shareholding compliance is based on the current annualised salary or fee as set out in the total remuneration tables which applied on 22 January 2018 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report and the higher of the original purchase price s or the current market price being 526 pence per share on 22 January 2018, of the relevant shareholdings.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 98 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance DIRECTOR INTERESTS IN SHARE SCHEMES AUDITED JSOS audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the Groups JSOS were as follows: Hurdle Date of Number of Price Director Type of interest issue share interests Vesting Date Tim Steiner Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,000 2.28 01 01 14 Neill Abrams Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,100 2.28 01 01 14 Duncan Tatton-Brown Joint interest in shares 01 11 12 365,000 1.70 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 01 11 12 1,100,000 1.80 01 01 14 Mark Richardson Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,200 2.28 01 01 14 Joint interest in shares 30 11 12 711,975 1.70 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 30 11 12 776,700 1.80 01 01 14 Granted: No awards of JSOS share interests were made during the period.
The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of share interests under the JSOS scheme to the current Executive Directors.
The JSOS scheme, which was put in place prior to the Companys Admission in 2010, involves the Executive Directors investing their own funds to purchase a shared interest in the Companys shares at the market value at that time.
These investments were made in 2010 in the case of Tim Steiner, Neill Abrams and Mark Richardson and in 2012 in the case of Duncan TattonBrown and Mark Richardson again.
The Executive Directors invested from their own resources.
The purchased interests entitle the Executive Directors to a return only if, in the future, the share price exceeds the relevant hurdle rate.
The Executive Directors would lose their investment if the share price were not to exceed the hurdle price.
For a detailed description of the JSOS scheme refer to pages 249 to 252 of the Prospectus.
Vested: No JSOS share interests vested during the period.
Sold: No JSOS share interests have been sold by an Executive Director since inception of the scheme.
Lapsed: No JSOS share interests lapsed during the period.
The LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which is a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year performance period.
The 2015 LTIP award was determined based on a price of 378 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 13 March 2015 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2015 LTIP award is subject to the achievement of four equally weighted performance conditions for the 2016 2017 financial year, being the third year of a three-year performance period.
The performance conditions concerning the financial performance of the Group, both earnings before tax and revenue, are focused on the Groups retail business performance and weighted 25% each.
The Ocado Solutions performance conditions each have a 25% weighting.
In respect of a target, at threshold performance, 6.25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
The 2015 LTIP awards are not capable of vesting until after the end of the period, on 22 March 2018.
The 2016 LTIP award was determined based on a price of 261 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 17 March 2016 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2016 LTIP award is subject to the achievement of four equally weighted performance conditions for the 2017 2018 financial year, being the third year of a three-year performance period.
The performance conditions concerning the financial performance of the Group, both earnings before tax and revenue, will be focused on the Groups retail business performance and will be weighted 25% each.
The proprietary infrastructure solution performance conditions will each have a 25% weighting and concern platform operational efficiency and platform capital efficiency.
The 2017 LTIP award is outlined below.
Granted: LTIP awards were made in respect of 2017 of up to 150% of annual base salary and in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, an LTIP award with a total market value of 200% of annual base salary.
Such awards were made in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The number of shares subject to an LTIP award was determined based on a price of 255.1792 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 20 February 2017 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2017 LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which are a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of four equally weighted performance conditions.
The performance metrics relate to the retail business and the platform business.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these performance conditions encourage the delivery of crucial strategic objectives of the Group.
The proprietary infrastructure solution performance conditions will each have a 25% weighting.
The first concerns platform operational efficiency and the second concerns sales of the Ocado Solutions platform.
The rationale for, and basis of measurement of, the performance metrics was as follows: Performance target Commercial rationale Basis of measurement Retail business 50% Rewards top line sales growth for the retail business in line Revenue and earnings before tax for the retail business for with the Groups strategy and the creation of financial returns the 2018 2019 financial year.
Platform business 50% Rewards progress and achievement with the proprietary Operational efficiency of the platform business and sales of the infrastructure solution and Solutions business, which is a key Ocado Solutions platform.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a performance target, 6.25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest.
Each target is discrete and can be earned separately.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 100 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance The performance conditions for the 2017 LTIP awards will be tested in relation to the financial year ending in 2019 except in the case of the Ocado Solutions target which measures performance over the three year performance period to determine what percentage of the LTIP awards has been achieved, and will vest during 2020 to the extent that the performance conditions have been achieved.
Any 2017 LTIP awards that vest will not be subject to deferral as they were awarded to participants under the 2014 directors remuneration policy and therefore are not subject to deferral.
The specific performance conditions are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would be likely to damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose the performance conditions after the end of the performance period, to the extent that the targets are not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
Vested: The 2014 LTIP awards had a vesting date of 31 March 2017 for a three-year performance period that ended with the 2015 2016 financial year.
As explained in the 2016 annual report, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance against the awards two equally weighted performance conditions, which were the levels of diluted and adjusted earnings per share, and Group revenue, for the 2015 2016 financial year.
The Groups diluted and adjusted earnings per share for the period was 3.075 pence per share, which was above the threshold performance target of 1.3 pence per share but below the maximum performance target of 3.5 pence per share.
Accordingly, achievement against the performance target was 42.76%.
The Groups revenue for the period was 1,271.0 million, which was below the threshold performance target of 1,385.5 million.
Consequently, achievement against the performance target was 0% and therefore overall 42.76% of the award vested.
The performance period for the 2015 LTIP awards finished in the year, although these awards are not capable of vesting until 22 March 2018 as noted on page 100.
Sold: As a result of the vesting of the 2014 LTIP awards, the Executive Directors sold shares in the Company.
The Directors sold sufficient of the shares that vested to cover the cost of the tax and National Insurance.
The details of the LTIP vesting and resulting share sale for each Executive Director are set out below.
For more details see the total remuneration table on page 92.
Lapsed: No LTIP awards lapsed during the period.
GIP AUDITED At the end of the period, the Executive Directors total GIP awards were as follows: Face Value of End of Date of Number of Award Performance Director Type of Interest Grant Share Options Period Exercise Period Tim Steiner Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 4,000,000 12,744,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Mark Richardson Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 1.
The face value of the options which are the subject of a GIP award was determined based on a price of 318.60 pence per share being the price on date of grant.
A condition of vesting is that each participant holds, and retains throughout the performance period, shares in the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of his annual salary.
Both other participants are required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of half of their annual salary.
The GIP award is subject to the achievement of a single performance condition to be satisfied over five years commencing on the date of grant of the awards.
The share price of the Company is the sole performance measure, and will be assessed relative to the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period assessed using a three-month averaging period.
The performance schedule is set out in the table below: Percentage of Performance target award vesting % Growth of less than the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
0 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
25 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 10% p. a.
50 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 15% p. a.
75 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 20% p. a. or more 100 Granted: No awards under the GIP were granted during the period.
Vested: No awards under the GIP vested during the period.
The awards are expected to vest in May 2019 if and to the extent that the vesting criteria are met.
Sold: No awards under the GIP have been exercised or sold by an Executive Director during the period.
com 101 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Lapsed: No awards under the GIP lapsed during the period.
ESOS AUDITED At the end of the period, the Executive Directors held options under the ESOS as follows: Face Value of Date of Number of Exercise Price Grant Exercise Director Type of Interest Grant Share Options Period Mark Richardson Option 31 05 09 70,000 1.20 84,000 31 05 12 30 05 19 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option 12 08 13 9,923 3.02 29,967 08 07 16 07 07 23 Granted: The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of options under the ESOS scheme to the existing Executive Directors.
Existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010 except those granted in 2013 to then new appointee Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown.
None of the grants of ESOS options to the Executive Directors are subject to performance conditions.
Vested: No awards under the ESOS vested during the period.
Sold: No awards under the ESOS have been exercised or sold by an Executive Director during the period.
Lapsed: No options under the ESOS lapsed during the period.
2014 ESOS AUDITED No awards have been granted to the Executive Directors under the 2014 ESOS, and the Remuneration Committee does not have any intention of making an award of options under the 2014 ESOS scheme to the existing Executive Directors.
Accordingly, no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
SIP AUDITED At the end of the period, interests in shares held by the Executive Directors under the SIP were as follows: Total Face Value of Free Shares and Matching Total Partnership Matching Shares SIP Shares Unrestricted Shares Shares Free Shares Awarded Total SIP that Became SIP Shares Acquired in Awarded in Awarded in in the Year Shares Held Unrestricted Held at Director the Year the Year the Year 3 12 2017 in the Period 3 12 2017 Tim Steiner 666 95 1,240 3,854 6,997 1,177 1,177 Duncan Tatton-Brown 667 95 1,240 3,854 6,940 1,120 1,120 Mark Richardson 666 95 1,240 3,854 6,991 1,126 1,126 Neill Abrams 666 95 1,061 3,335 6,258 948 948 1.
Unrestricted shares are those which have been held beyond the three-year forfeiture period.
The value of the share awards made under the SIP is based on the middle market quotation of a share on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
Granted: The Directors continued their SIP participation during the period.
The SIP scheme is made available to all employees.
The SIP allows for the grant of a number of different forms of awards.
An award of free shares was made to the Executive Directors in September 2017 under the terms of the SIP and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Free shares of up to 3,600 of ordinary shares may be allocated to any employee in any year.
Free shares are allocated to employees equally on the basis of salary, as permitted by the relevant legislation.
An award of matching shares was made to those Executive Directors who purchased partnership shares using deductions taken from their gross basic pay under the terms of the SIP and in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Partnership shares are where employees are invited to purchase ordinary shares directly from their earnings.
The market value of such partnership shares which an employee can purchase in any tax year currently may not exceed 1,800 or 10% of the relevant employees remuneration, if lower.
Matching shares are additional free shares which may be allocated to an employee who purchases partnership shares.
The rules of the SIP reflect current UK legislation and allow for a maximum matching ratio of two to one.
The matching ratio adopted by the Company for the SIP during the period was a ratio of one matching share for every seven partnership shares purchased, considerably lower than the maximum permitted ratio.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 102 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance There are no performance conditions attached to awards made under the SIP, although free shares and matching shares are subject to a three-year forfeiture period.
Partnership shares are purchased by the employees and therefore forfeiture does not apply.
Free shares and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a holding period of no less than three years but no more than five years.
Shares held in trust for more than five years are not subject to income tax or National Insurance contributions on withdrawal.
Partnership shares purchased by employees are not subject to a holding period.
The Executive Directors continued their membership in the SIP after the end of the period and were therefore awarded further matching shares pursuant to the SIP rules.
Between the end of the period and 22 January 2018, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Executive Directors acquired or were awarded further shares under the SIP as set out in the table below: Total Face Value of Free Shares Total SIP Partnership Matching and Matching Shares Shares Shares Free Shares Shares Held at Director Acquired Awarded Award 22 01 2018 Tim Steiner 79 12 45 7,088 Duncan Tatton-Brown 78 12 45 7,030 Mark Richardson 79 11 42 7,081 Neill Abrams 79 11 42 6,348 1.
Vested: For details of free shares and matching shares that became unrestricted in the period, see page 102.
Only the value of free and matching shares that became unrestricted during the period is shown in the total remuneration table.
Sold: No shares held under the SIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
Lapsed: No shares held by an Executive Director under the SIP lapsed during the period.
SHARESAVE SCHEME AUDITED At the end of the period, the Executive Directors option interests in the Sharesave scheme were as follows: Date of Number of Exercise Price Face Value Director Type of Interest Grant Share Options Exercise Period Tim Steiner Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Neill Abrams Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Duncan Tatton-Brown Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Mark Richardson Options 05 08 16 7,894 2.28 17,998 01 12 19 01 05 20 Granted: No awards under the Sharesave were granted during the period.
Vested: For details of vested Sharesave options, see page 95.
Exercised: No awards under the Sharesave were exercised or sold by the Executive Directors during the period.
Lapsed: A savings contract under the Sharesave scheme matured on 1 December 2016.
Tim Steiner, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Neill Abrams each held 2,987 options at this date.
Participants were able to exercise their options until the end of the exercise period in May 2017.
During the exercise period, the share price did not rise higher than the exercise price and therefore the options lapsed and the Directors withdrew their savings.
com 103 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report DILUTION Dilution Limits Awards granted under the Companys Sharesave, ESOS, 2014 ESOS and SIP schemes are met by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised or shares granted.
The allocation of awards under the JSOS were met by the subscription for new shares by the participant and the EBT.
Awards granted under the GIP may be met by the issue of new shares, the transfer of shares from treasury, or the purchase or transfer of existing shares by the EBT where available.
Awards vesting under the LTIP are typically satisfied by the issue of new shares and transfer of existing shares by the EBT.
The share deferral provisions in the AIP have not been approved by shareholders and accordingly awards will be satisfied only by the purchase of existing shares by the EBT until such shareholder approval is obtained.
There are limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the Companys share plans.
These dilution limits were recommended by the Remuneration Committee and incorporated into the rules of the various share schemes, which have been approved by the Companys shareholders.
The dilution limits restrict the commitment to issue new ordinary shares or reissue treasury shares under all share schemes of the Group to 10% of the nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital and under the JSOS, the LTIP and the GIP and any other selective share scheme to 5% of the nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling ten-year period.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
The JSOS rules have additional overriding limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the JSOS.
Up to 7.5% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital may be held under the JSOS.
Impact on Dilution The Company monitors the number of shares issued under these schemes and their impact on dilution.
The charts below show the Companys commitment, as at the last practicable date prior to the publication date of this Annual Report being 22 January 2018, to issue new shares in respect of its share schemes assuming all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in newly issued shares.
For these purposes, no account is taken of ordinary shares allocated prior to the Companys Admission.
ALL SHARE PLANS DISCRETIONARY SHARE PLANS Actual: 5.96% Actual: 3.38% Limit: 10.00% Limit: 5.00% Review of Changes in Remuneration and Company Performance This part of the report provides some context for the Directors remuneration arrangements including information concerning the Companys performance, shareholder returns and the Groups total expenditure on employee pay.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 104 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance Chief Executive Officer Historical Remuneration The table below summarises in respect of the Chief Executive Officer the single figure of total remuneration, the AIP or bonus plan payment as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and the long-term incentives as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current period and the previous seven financial years.
The Chief Executive Officer total remuneration figures prior to the 2013 period represent the previously presented audited information with necessary adjustments for amounts required to be included in the single total figure of remuneration such as pension amounts under the new regulations which first applied to the 2013 financial period.
From 2010, the Company had the JSOS as the main form of long-term incentive plan.
In 2011, the first tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period.
For the 2012 and 2013 financial years, the JSOS interests did not have any value at the vesting date.
In 2014, the final tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period the value of such remuneration is noted in the single total figure of remuneration above.
The LTIP was implemented in 2013 and the first award had a performance period ending in 2015 and a vesting date in 2016.
The GIP and SIP were both implemented in 2014, but have vesting dates in 2019 and 2017 respectively.
The total remuneration amounts shown above are the amounts restated so as to account for the final vesting of the LTIP awards.
For an explanation of this restatement in respect of the 2016 period see note 1 of the total remuneration table on page 92.
For details of the 2017 period LTIP value, see note 2 of the total remuneration table.
com 105 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM DIRECTORS' Remuneration Report Chief Executive Officer Percentage Change Versus Employee Group To put the Directors remuneration into context, the table below sets out the change in salary, benefits, and bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and of all of the Groups employees from the preceding period to the current period.
Chief Executive All UK Officer employees Percentage change in salary from 2016 to 2017 2.8% 4.1% Percentage change in taxable benefits from 2016 to 2017 100% 15.2 % Percentage change in AIP earned from 2016 to 2017 1.6 % n a 1.
Most of the Groups employees are not entitled to earn an annual bonus payment as part of their remuneration.
The change in salary data for the Groups employees is on a per capita basis.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table shows the Companys profit and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees for the period and last financial year.
The Company has not paid a dividend or carried out a share buyback in the current year or previous year.
The information shown in this chart is: Profit Group profit before tax as set out in Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Total gross employee pay total gross employment costs for the Group including pension, variable pay, share-based payments and social security as set out in Note 2.6 to the consolidated financial statements.
3 December 27 November 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 1.0 12.1 Total gross employee pay 335.9 287.7 COMPANY SHARE PRICE The closing market price of the Companys shares as at 1 December 2017, being the last trading day in the period ended 3 December 2017, was 363.5 pence per ordinary share 2016: 275.8 pence and the share price range applicable during the period was 238.5 pence to 363.5 pence per ordinary share.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares from its Admission to the end of the period compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The Company has not paid a dividend since its Admission so the Companys TSR does not factor in dividends reinvested in shares.
400.00 FTSE 250 Ocado Group plc 350.00 300.00 250.00 200.00 150.00 100.00 50.00 0 02 Nov 2010 18 Nov 2011 17 Dec 2012 15 Nov 2013 02 Dec 2014 01 Nov 2015 25 Nov 2016 01 Dec 2017 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 106 25615 Proof 8 5 February 2018 8:57 PM Our Governance ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY FOR 2018 Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out implementation of the Directors remuneration for 2018.
Summary of Changes for Executive Directors This table briefly summarises the proposals for the Directors remuneration arrangements for 2018 when compared to the arrangements for the period.
Base Salary and Benefits Pension AIP Long-Term Incentives All-Employee Schemes Base salary will be subject to No changes proposed.
No change to the maximum No change to the maximum Ongoing participation in the annual review.
opportunity or structure of opportunity for the 2018 LTIP SIP and Sharesave.
Base Salary and Benefits The Remuneration Committee expects to finalise its annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries later in 2018, in line with the timing of pay reviews for all of the Groups employees.
The benefits in kind offered to the Executive Directors are expected to remain unchanged.
Pensions No changes are proposed to the pension contributions for Executive Directors for 2018, which are expected to remain at the levels provided in the current period.
2018 AIP The Remuneration Committee approved the implementation of an AIP for the Executive Directors applicable to the 2017 18 financial year.
This plan is in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The bonus potential for the Executive Directors is 100% and for the Chief Executive Officer is 125% of base salary for maximum performance, which is the same as the 2017 AIP.
A A There will be four objectives in the 2018 AIP, with the weighting as 25% for each of a Gross Sales Retail target, a Group EBITDA target, an Ocado Solutions target, and performance measured against role-specfic objectives.
The rationale for setting the performance measures was considered by the Remuneration Committee, which introduced a fourth performance measure, an Ocado Solutions target, to align the performance measures for the plan with the evolving Group strategy concerning the Ocado Solutions business.
"The Remuneration Committee has agreed ""threshold"" and maximum conditions that must be achieved."
At threshold performance for a financial performance measure, 6.25% of total bonus is payable and at maximum performance, 25% of total bonus is payable.
The actual performance targets are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would likely damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose achievement against the targets after the end of the performance period, provided such disclosure is not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
