DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE Meetings attended in year out of maximum % attended in Committee member Member since possible year 1 Ian Bull Sep 2014 3 4 75% Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 4 4 100% 2 Jenefer Greenwood, OBE Jun 2017 3 3 100% Lesley James, CBE Oct 2009 4 4 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 4 4 100% Bill Shannon Nov 2010 4 4 100% 1 Unable to attend the meeting in February 2017 due to a prior business commitment.
2 Joined the Committee with effect from 1 June 2017.
VARIABLE REMUNERATION FOR THE Committee meeting Committee advisor YEAR REFLECTS THE FINANCIAL attendees by invitation Representatives from New PERFORMANCE OF THE GROUP.
Chief Executive Bridge Street Committee Mark Allan advisors to 1 December 2017.
Lesley James, CBE 1 Resigned as Company Secretary Non-executive director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 2017 and Simon Clarke 2 Appointed as Company Secretary Group HR Director Principal role & General Counsel Interim on 9 November 2017 Rob Hudson, Chief Jane Saint Determines the policy for the remuneration of the executive Financial Officer was appointed as directors, which is designed to promote the long-term success Company Secretary and Company Secretary in the interim of the Company, be compatible with risk policies and controls Secretary to the Committee and be aligned to the Companys long-term strategic goals, 1 Tanya Stote culture and values.
2 Andrew Eames Key activities in 2016 17 Finalised remuneration policy for three years from 2017 AGM and determined how the policy would be applied for 2016 17.
ANNUAL STATEMENT Reviewed the remuneration and incentive arrangements of On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the report our senior executive team alongside the Boards review of the on directors remuneration for the financial year ended role and responsibilities of the members of that team.
Ensured the performance metrics and targets selected for This report includes an annual report on remuneration pages 86 incentive plans were closely aligned with our long-term to 109 which describes how the shareholder approved directors strategic goals.
remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 30 November 2017 and how we intend to apply the policy for the Continued to monitor market trends in remuneration year ending 30 November 2018.
This report, together with my arrangements and developments in corporate governance.
annual statement, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at Undertook our triennial review of the Committees external the 2018 AGM.
advisors and, following a tender process, Korn Ferry Hay Our approach to remuneration is governed by our directors Group were appointed with effect from December 2017. remuneration policy, which received shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM and came into formal effect from that date.
96% of votes Areas of focus for 2017 18 were cast in favour and we thank shareholders for their continued Continue to monitor market trends and governance support.
We consulted extensively and constructively with our developments in particular legislative and regulatory largest shareholders in advance of seeking approval for the policy.
changes resulting from the proposed reforms to pay Shareholders were generally supportive of our proposals and we governance, including the broader role and remit of received some helpful feedback which resulted in the Committee the Committee.
building in some further improvements.
The key changes to our Review the implementation of the remuneration policy to policy included: ensure it remains appropriate in light of our evolving business the introduction of a requirement to hold vested LTIP shares for strategy, culture and values while also taking due account of a further two years after vesting: wider company pay structures.
more rounded and balanced performance metrics across the Terms of reference bonus and LTIP: www.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance a commitment to greater transparency and clarity in our disclosure to evidence our approach to setting stretching targets: St. Modwen Properties PLC 86 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information an increase in the proportion of bonus compulsorily invested How we will apply our remuneration policy in 2017 18 and retained in shares: and The structure of remuneration arrangements for 2017 18 will remain largely unchanged from that applied in 2016 17.
Executive directors a reduction in both the proportion of bonus payable at target will continue to have the opportunity to earn a bonus of up to and LTIP payable at threshold.
150% of salary and will be granted long-term incentive awards to These changes ensure that the policy continues to support the same value, both subject to stretching and rigorously applied the Companys key strategic goals as they evolve, incentivises performance conditions aligned to our business KPIs.
management to deliver strong returns for our shareholders and The salaries of the executive directors have been increased by 2.5%, promotes the long-term success of the Company.
effective 1 December 2017 with Rob Hudsons salary subject to a Having reviewed the policy and its operation in the first year, further increase as explained above.
This is in line with the average we are proposing no further policy changes at the 2018 AGM.
To cost of living increase that will be awarded to the Companys enable you to cross reference our remuneration practice against employees and is considered appropriate in light of the executive our policy, we have republished the key parts of our Directors directors continued strong performance.
remuneration policy which can be found on pages 88 to 92.
Change to Committee Chair Remuneration outcomes in 2016 17 Following over eight years as Chair of the Remuneration Committee In the year to November 2017, the Company delivered a good I will be stepping down following the 2018 AGM, and will be retiring performance against the backdrop of an uncertain market from the Board later this year.
In line with our succession planning, environment.
The business continues to demonstrate its resilience, my Board colleague Jenefer Greenwood will assume the role of with all parts of the Group contributing positively in 2017.
Jenefer has been a director and member of the Remuneration recently concluded strategy and portfolio review, confirmed the Committee since 1 June 2017 and is experienced in chairing significant potential in our business and pipeline, and we are now remuneration committees, currently as Chair at Assura plc and DCH focused on realising these opportunities.
Group, so is well qualified to assume this role.
I would personally like to thank my colleagues on the Board and our shareholders for Reflecting both the financial results for the year and individual the support shown over my tenure on remuneration matters.
performance, Mark Allan and Rob Hudson were awarded bonuses equivalent to 121% and 122.9% of their base salaries 80.7% and Conclusion 81.9% of the maximum for the year ended 30 November 2017.
I hope that you find the report clear and informative and I look Full details of the Committees assessment of performance against forward to receiving your support for the resolution approving this bonus objectives for the year can be found on pages 97 to 98. report at the 2018 AGM.
The Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2015 were subject to performance conditions measured over the three Lesley James financial years to 30 November 2017.
Vesting of half of this award Chairman of the Remuneration Committee was subject to Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative 5 February 2018 to the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index, with This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-Sized the remaining 50% subject to an absolute TSR condition.
Neither Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in element met the threshold level of performance required for 2013 the Regulations, the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and vesting set by the Committee, so this PSP cycle has delivered a the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Actual performance is detailed on page 98 to 100.
Changes to the Board DIRECTORS REMUNERATION We announced in March 2017 the sad news of the passing of POLICY our Group Construction Director, Steve Burke.
The Committee determined that a pro rata bonus should be payable for the The key parts of the Directors remuneration policy that was proportion of the financial year Steve worked and that outstanding approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM are set out overleaf to PSP awards should be capable of vesting on their normal vesting enable the reported remuneration to be assessed in the context of dates based on performance and scaled back pro rata for the the relevant aspects of the policy.
The current intention is that this shorter period of service.
policy will operate until the 2020 AGM.
The original policy approved We have taken the decision not to replace Steve on the Board.
at the 2017 AGM is published in its entirety in the Companys Following a review of the responsibilities of the members of our Annual Report for the year ended 30 November 2016, which is senior management team, a number of individuals in the business available to view at www.
have taken on additional responsibilities instead.
Therefore the number of executive director roles on the Board has reduced from How the Committee sets the remuneration policy three to two.
Following this change, the responsibilities attached The primary objective of the Companys remuneration policy is to Rob Hudsons role have increased materially outside of his core to promote the long-term success of the Company through the finance remit.
In particular Rob has taken ongoing responsibility operation of competitive pay arrangements, which are structured for Group-wide business planning and operational oversight, areas so as to be in the best interests of shareholders.
The executive that would previously have fallen to Steve.
These will be ongoing directors remuneration includes a significant proportion of responsibilities for Rob.
As a consequence of this expanded role performance-related elements with demanding targets to align the Committee determined that the base salary for Rob Hudson their interests with shareholders and to reward success.
The policy should as a one-off and in accordance with the remuneration is structured so as to be aligned with key strategic priorities, reflect policy, be increased by 12.8% which, on top of the 2.5% awarded the Companys culture and values and to be consistent with a to the executive team, took his salary to 325,000.
We consulted Board-approved level of business risk.
The Committee also with major shareholders who were, again, generally supportive considers developments in institutional investors best practice of this proposal.
expectations and the views expressed by shareholders.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In setting and operating the remuneration policy for the executive proposed changes to the Corporate Governance Code as they directors, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration relate to amongst other matters stakeholder engagement and practices found in other UK companies of comparable size and will take appropriate action as and when these changes come into scope and has regard to the remuneration arrangements for the effect.
Salary increases are normally in percentage of salary terms Companys employees generally.
Greater emphasis is placed on no higher than those awarded to the wider workforce and all variable pay for executive directors and senior employees, albeit qualifying employees are eligible to participate in the Groups with lower maximum incentive opportunities at levels below the Saving Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
Similarly, long-term incentives are offered only to those expected to have the greatest impact on Company performance.
How the Committee takes account of the views of shareholders The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with The Committee is aware of the support expressed by some shareholders and seeks the views of its major investors when shareholders for the downward harmonisation of executive pension considering significant changes to remuneration arrangements.
The allowances to bring them into line with percentages for the wider Committee also considers shareholder feedback received in relation workforce.
Current allowances for the Companys executive to the Directors Remuneration Report each year following the AGM.
directors are 15% of base salary, which reflects mid-market practice This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, is and previous commitments made on appointment.
However, the then considered as part of the Committees annual review of Committee is closely monitoring how market practice and investor remuneration policy and its implementation.
During the year the views about this topic develop.
Committee consulted in relation to the proposal to increase the The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding base salary level for the Chief Financial Officer and was pleased the remuneration policy for executive directors.
However, when with the levels of shareholder support received.
considering the level and structure of remuneration to apply to executive directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees across the business and is kept updated of any changes.
The Committee continues to monitor Summary of directors remuneration policy Base salary Purpose To attract, retain and motivate individuals of the necessary calibre to execute the Companys strategy.
To provide competitive base remuneration relative to the external market.
To recognise and reward performance, skills and experience.
Operation Normally reviewed annually with changes typically effective from 1 December.
Review reflects: individual and corporate performance: the individuals level of skill and experience: increases throughout the Company including cost of living awards : internal relativities: and prevailing market conditions through periodic benchmarking for comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope.
The Committee is mindful of institutional investors concerns on the upward ratchet of base salaries and does not consider benchmark data in isolation.
Opportunity Salaries may be adjusted and salary increases will normally be in percentage of salary terms no higher than those awarded to the wider workforce.
Larger increases may be awarded at the Committees discretion to take account of exceptional circumstances such as: changes in scope and responsibility of a role: and where a new director is appointed at a salary which is at a lower level to reflect their experience at that point, the Committee may award a series of increases over time to achieve the desired salary position subject to satisfactory performance and market conditions.
Actual salary levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year see page 105 for those effective 1 December 2017.
Performance measures None, although overall performance of the individual is considered by the Committee as part of the annual review.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 88 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Benefits Purpose To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package.
To assist with recruitment and retention.
Operation The Company provides a range of non-pensionable benefits to executive directors which may, for example, include a combination of a company car or car allowance, private fuel, driver, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, holiday and sick pay, and professional advice in connection with their directorship.
Other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Executive directors will be eligible for any other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Any reasonable business-related expenses can be reimbursed, including the tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Opportunity There is no maximum limit set.
Benefits are set at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on the role and individual circumstances.
Pension Purpose To provide competitive post-retirement benefits in a cost-effective manner.
Operation The Company offers an allowance expressed as a percentage of base salary which can be taken as: an employer contribution to the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme: a cash allowance which is not counted as salary for bonus purposes : or a blend of the two.
As a result of historic contractual commitments, retirement benefits for Steve Burke were also delivered by membership of the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme which is closed to future accrual.
The Committee may amend the form of any executive directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a directors pension provision.
Opportunity Up to 15% of base salary for all executive directors.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching, near-term strategic, financial and operational measures at company and personal levels.
Corporate measures selected are consistent with and complement the budget and strategic plan.
An element of compulsory investment in shares to align to shareholders interests in the creation of sustainable, long-term value.
Operation All measures, weightings and targets are reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year and specific performance criteria will be aligned to the Companys strategic objectives at that time.
Levels of award determined by the Committee after the year end will be based on performance against the targets set.
The Committee retains an overriding discretion to ensure that overall bonus payments reflect its view of corporate performance during the year.
Bonuses are paid in cash and are non-pensionable.
Directors are required to invest an amount equal to 40% of the net bonus received in the Companys shares and to retain these shares for a minimum period of three years.
Withholding malus and recovery clawback provisions apply to all bonuses paid such that, in exceptional circumstances such as misstatement of performance or misconduct, the Committee has discretion to reduce some or all of the value of an award within a period of four years following the end of the relevant bonus year.
Opportunity Maximum bonus potential of up to 150% of salary for all executive directors.
On-target performance would result in a bonus payment of half of the maximum potential.
Performance measures Performance is assessed using the following metrics: a majority of the award will be based on corporate measures: and a minority no more than 25% of the overall bonus opportunity will be 1 based on personal measures.
There is also a cap on the amount of bonus awarded for performance in respect of personal measures, set at one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
The specific measures that will apply for the year ending 30 November 2018 are described in the annual report on remuneration on pages 105 to 106.
Measures for subsequent years will be summarised in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
1 The annual bonus metrics are designed to ensure that annual performance is focused on key corporate measures which support the Companys strategic targets.
These are supported by individual performance measures to ensure that executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range of objectives.
Targets are set in line with the Companys budget and strategic plan for the year with a stretch element to reward substantial outperformance.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 90 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Long-term incentives Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of strong returns to shareholders and sustained, long-term performance.
Aligns the long-term interests of directors and shareholders.
Operation Awards are normally made under the Performance Share Plan PSP annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions set by the Committee.
A holding period will apply to awards granted in the financial year ending 30 November 2017 and beyond.
The holding period will require executive directors to retain at least the after-tax value of shares acquired for a minimum period of 24 months from the vesting date and will remain in place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year holding period.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee to pay an amount in cash or shares equivalent to the dividends paid or payable on vested shares between the date of grant and the vesting of an award or, if later, and only whilst an option remains unexercised in respect of vested shares, the expiry of the holding period.
An amount payable may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Withholding malus and recovery clawback provisions apply to all awards granted such that, in exceptional circumstances such as misstatement of performance or misconduct, the Committee has discretion to reduce some or all of the value of an award within a period of four years following the end of the relevant performance period.
Opportunity The maximum annual grant level is 150% of salary or 200% in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
The normal annual award limit is 150% of salary for all executive directors.
Awards vest on the following basis: threshold performance delivers 20% of the shares awarded: and maximum performance delivers 100% of the shares awarded, with straight-line vesting between.
Performance measures Performance is normally measured over three years.
Awards to vest based on performance against stretching financial targets and relative TSR performance are set and assessed by the Committee at its 1 discretion.
Within these parameters, the Committee may introduce or reweight specific performance measures so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for each performance period.
The Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent performance conditions have been achieved and must also be satisfied that certain underpinning conditions are met before permitting awards to vest for example, that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
The underpinning conditions will be set so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for each performance period.
The specific measures that will apply for awards made in the year ending 30 November 2018 are described in the annual report on remuneration on page 106.
1 The Committee believes that a combination of relative TSR and key financial measures provides strong alignment with the interests of shareholders and complements the focus on operational performance measures in the annual bonus arrangements.
Targets are set to ensure that only modest awards are available for delivering on-target performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of the Companys budget and strategic plans.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 91 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Shareholding requirement Purpose To ensure alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders.
Operation The Company operates a shareholding requirement which is subject to periodic review.
Opportunity Executive directors are required to build up and maintain a shareholding worth at least 200% of base salary, which is normally expected to be reached within five years of appointment.
Executive directors are required to retain all of the post-tax shares acquired as a result of the compulsory investment of bonus into shares and half of the post-tax shares vesting under the PSP until the shareholding requirement is met.
Fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose To attract and retain the calibre of Chairman and non-executive directors necessary to promote the long-term success of the Company by offering market competitive fee levels.
Operation Normally reviewed annually with changes effective typically from 1 December.
Any increase will be guided by changes in market rates, time commitment and responsibility levels, as well as by increases made throughout the Company.
Fees are structured as follows: the Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
This fee is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee: and non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or for undertaking the Senior Independent Director role, which are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the executive directors.
Fees are normally paid in cash.
Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive directors participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive arrangements or in the pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind.
Opportunity Fees are set at a level which reflects the commitment and contribution that is expected and are appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope.
Overall fees paid to directors will remain within the limit set out in the Companys articles of association.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year see page 106 for those effective 1 December 2017.
Performance measures None, although overall performance of the individual is considered as part of the annual review.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 92 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Discretion to withhold payment or amend arrangements Illustration of remuneration policy The Committee retains discretion to make any payments, The following charts illustrate the remuneration opportunity notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out provided to each executive director at different levels of above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the performance for the 2017 18 financial year.
policy came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual 1.
Minimum performance: comprising the minimum becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments remuneration receivable i. e. fixed pay only, being base salary includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration effective 1 December 2017, pension allowances for the 2017 18 and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment financial year and benefits calculated using the 2016 17 figure.
are determined at the time the award is granted.
On-target performance: comprising fixed pay, an annual payments will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration bonus payment of 50% of the maximum opportunity for the relevant year.
75% of salary and long-term incentive awards vesting at The Committee will operate the annual bonus and long-term 20% of the maximum opportunity 30% of salary.
incentive arrangements according to their respective rules and in 3.
Maximum performance: comprising fixed pay, 100% of annual accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
Consistent with bonus 150% of salary and 100% vesting of long-term incentive market practice the Committee retains certain discretions in respect awards 150% of salary.
of the operation and administration of these arrangements which include, but are not limited to, the following: The illustrations do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends, and exclude the value of any all-employee share the participants: plan awards.
the timing of the grant of an award or payment: Mark Allan, Chief Executive the size of an award: 000 the determination of the extent to which performance measures have been met and the corresponding vesting or payment levels: 100% Minimum 709 discretion required when dealing with a change of control or 54% 33% 13% Target 1,317 restructuring of the Group: 28% 36% 36% Maximum 2,446 determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the respective arrangement and the appropriate treatment chosen, including the pro rating of awards: Rob Hudson, Chief Financial O cer 000 adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : Minimum 100% 392 the annual review of performance measures, weighting and targets from year to year: and Target 54% 33% 13% 734 the manner in which share awards can be satisfied i. e. through Maximum 28% 36% 36% 1,367 the use of new issue, market purchased or treasury shares or by way of a cash payment.
Fixed pay In addition, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets Annual bonus Long-term incentives and or set different measures if events occur e. g. a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 93 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Recruitment arrangements External appointments The remuneration package for a new executive director will The Board recognises the benefit which the Company can obtain be set in accordance with the terms of the prevailing approved if executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other remuneration policy at the time of the appointment and take into companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general account the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate policy is that an executive director can accept one non-executive for a candidate of that level of experience and the importance of directorship of another company but not the chairmanship and securing the relevant individual.
can retain the fees in respect of such appointment.
Base salary levels for new recruits will be set in accordance with Executive director service agreements and payments for loss the policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the of office individual recruited.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary The Companys policy is for executive directors to have service initially to reflect the individuals experience at that point, the agreements which may be terminated by the Company for breach Committee may award a series of increases over time to achieve by the executive or with no more than 12 months notice from the desired salary position subject to performance and market the Company to the executive and six months notice from the conditions.
Pension arrangements will be in line with the policy.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to If notice is served by either party, the executive director can new executive directors, excluding the value of any buyout continue to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the arrangements, will be in line with the policy.
In addition, the duration of their notice period during which time the Company Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties to replace deferred or incentive pay, or benefit arrangements, or may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company may elect to forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer.
In doing so make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to a maximum the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the of 12 months base salary and benefits including pension contribution form e. g. cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood but excluding bonus, payable in monthly instalments, which would of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration be subject to mitigation if alternative employment is taken up during being forfeited.
The Committee will generally seek to structure this time.
Alternatively, the Committee retains discretion to provide buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited.
this payment as a lump sum.
In the event of termination for cause Replacement share awards, if used, will, to the extent possible, be e. g. gross misconduct neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice granted using the Companys existing share schemes, although will be given and the executive director will cease to perform their awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary services immediately.
and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In redundancy situations the Committee will comply with prevailing The Committee may also apply different performance measures, relevant legislation.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, performance periods and or vesting periods for initial awards made the Company may pay a contribution towards the executive following appointment under the annual bonus and or long-term directors legal fees for entering into a statutory agreement, may incentive arrangements, subject to the rules of the scheme, if it pay a contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such of a negotiated settlement, or may make a payment to compromise alteration.
A long-term incentive award can be made shortly claims the executive director may have.
There is no provision for following an appointment provided the Company is not in a additional compensation on termination following a change of close period.
Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, Where a position is filled internally, the Committee may honour any including untaken holiday entitlement.
pre-existing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay The principles set out in the table overleaf will apply to annual arrangements in relation to the individuals previous role such that bonus and long-term incentive arrangements in the event of loss these shall be allowed to continue according to the original terms of office.
adjusted as relevant to take account of the Board appointment.
In respect of all-employee share schemes and the Companys For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree Employee Share Option Schemes, the same leaver conditions that the Company will meet certain relocation and or incidental will be applied to executive directors as those applied to expenses as appropriate.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 94 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Good leavers Other leavers Annual bonus An executive director will be treated as a good leaver Unless the Committee in certain circumstances, for example if he or she exercises its discretion to dies or ceases employment due to injury, disability, treat the executive director retirement with the Companys agreement, or sale of as a good leaver, no bonus the business in which he or she is employed, or for will be payable.
any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In these circumstances, the executive director remains eligible to be paid a bonus, subject to the applicable performance measures.
Any payment awarded may be pro rated to reflect the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination, but not for any period in lieu of notice.
Long-term incentive awards An executive director will be treated as a good leaver All awards will lapse in full As apply to the Companys current Performance in certain circumstances, for example death, injury, where termination is by Share Plan approved at the 2017 AGM disability or for any other reason at the discretion of reason of summary dismissal.
In other circumstances, Awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date, unvested awards will lapse subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance in full unless the Committee conditions at that time and reduced pro rata to reflect applies discretion to treat the proportion of the vesting period actually served.
the executive director as However, under the plan rules, the Committee has a good leaver.
discretion to determine that awards vest at cessation of employment and or to disapply the time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
A good leaver may exercise their vested awards for a period of 12 months following the individuals cessation of employment and unvested awards may be exercised for a period of 12 months from vesting.
Non-executive director terms of appointment The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-executive directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Appointments are for a fixed term of three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by three months notice by either party.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms subject to mutual agreement and satisfactory performance reviews.
There are no provisions for payment in the event of termination, early or otherwise.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 95 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3, Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Remuneration payable audited information Pension Share plans contribution 1 2 4 Base salary fees Benefits Annual bonus vesting allowance Other items Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Executive directors 5 Mark Allan 565 47 23 2 684 85 7 1,235 2,592 56 6 7 8 Steve Burke 95 329 6 16 117 182 14 49 1 15 233 591 9 Rob Hudson 282 275 19 40 346 146 42 41 415 689 917 Non-executive directors Bill Shannon 163 159 163 159 Ian Bull 54 53 54 53 Kay Chaldecott 45 44 45 44 Simon Clarke 45 44 45 44 Lesley James 54 53 54 53 10 Jenefer Greenwood 22 22 Richard Mully 54 53 54 53 1,379 1,057 48 58 1,147 328 141 97 1,236 430 3,951 1,970 1 All benefits for the executive directors comprising mainly the provision of company car car allowance, private fuel and medical insurance, and in the case of Rob Hudson, a final amount of 4,937 in respect of his relocation to the Midlands which is within the 25% of salary allowance agreed on recruitment, arise from employment with the Company and do not form part of final pensionable pay.
2 Bonus payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Further information as to how the level of bonus awarded in 2017 was determined is provided on pages 97 and 98.
40% of the after tax amount of any bonus earned is required to be invested in shares and held for three years.
3 The performance period for the 2015 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2017.
The performance conditions to which these awards were subject were not achieved, hence the awards will lapse in full on 9 April 2018 and 2 October 2018 relating to Rob Hudsons award.
Further information on awards and performance conditions to which they were subject can be found on pages 98 to 100 4 Further details regarding pension entitlements can be found on page 101.
5 The vesting of Mark Allans share plan award relates to tranches 1 and 2 of a share award granted in connection with his recruitment, as detailed in last years Directors remuneration report on page 90.
Tranche 1 relating to 138,511 shares following a downward adjustment described on page 100 was not subject to additional performance conditions and vested in full on 10 April 2017.
Tranche 2 relating to 211,353 shares was subject to performance conditions relating to Mark Allans original employer Unite plc which were met in full, thereby resulting in full vesting of this award on 10 April 2017.
The share award includes an entitlement to a cash payment following a tranchs vesting date in respect of the dividend equivalent that would have accrued under the forfeited awards to the extent they had vested.
The dividend equivalent following the exercise of tranches 1 and 2 was 61,680, paid to Mark Allan in April 2017.
The share price on the date of vesting used to value the award was 335.3 pence.
Details of the remuneration treatment for Steve Burke are disclosed throughout this report.
7 Reflects the exercise pro rata on 20 November 2017 by Steve Burkes estate of a SAYE option granted on 15 August 2016.
The value is based on the market value on the date of exercise 394.6 pence, less the option price 246.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Further details can be found on page 102.
8 Reflects a the grant of a SAYE option on 15 August 2016 the value is based on the market value on the date of grant 274.5 pence, less the option price 246.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options granted : and b the exercise of a SAYE option on 3 October 2016 the value is based on the market value on the date of exercise 298.4 pence, less the option price 156.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options exercised.
Further details can be found on page 88 of last years Directors remuneration report.
9 As set out in the 2015 Remuneration Report, the Committee agreed to compensate Rob Hudson for certain long-term incentives from his previous employer that he was required to forfeit on him leaving to join St. Modwen in September 2015.
This included a one-off cash payment of 414,000 subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance contributions in recognition of an outstanding long-term incentive award which had reached the end of the performance measurement period in March 2015 such that the full value could be determined but which was not due to vest until December 2015.
As the vesting date fell soon after his appointment, a cash payment rather than an award of shares was considered fair and reasonable.
The amount shown in the table above also reflects the grant of a SAYE option on 15 August 2016, with the value based on the market value on the date of grant 274.5 pence, less the option price 246.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options granted.
Further details can be found in last years Directors remuneration report on page 88.
10 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2017.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 96 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Annual bonus outturn audited information In the financial year ended 30 November 2017 all executive directors had the opportunity to be awarded an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary as at 1 December 2016.
Of this, 112.5% of base salary 75% of the overall opportunity was dependent on achieving corporate measures and 37.5% of base salary 25% of the overall opportunity was dependent on meeting personal objectives.
Performance against targets and resulting bonus awards are set out in the tables below.
Threshold On-target Stretch Weighting performance performance performance Super stretch Actual Payout as % 25% of 50% of 75% of 100% of performance % of 1 Measure Link to strategy of award maximum maximum maximum maximum achieved maximum Corporate: Trading profit Reflects cash 25% 51.7m 57.4m 63.1m 68.9m 64.6m 81.3% profitability of the -10% 10% 20% business after interest and operating costs Total accounting Recognises the 25% 20.1 pence 23.7 pence 27.2 pence 30.8 pence 26.0 pence 66.4% return delivery of per share per share per share per share per share significant added -15% 10% 20% value See-through Ensures continued 25% 30.3% 28.9% 27.4% 26.0% 24.2% 100% loan-to-value balance sheet 5% 10% 20% strength Personal: Individual targets Ensures that each 25% Substantially Met Exceeded Significantly Mark Allan: Mark Allan: for executive director focuses on met exceeded Stretch 74.9% directors their individual contribution in the Rob Hudson: Rob Hudson: broadest sense Stretch 80.0% through business performance, Steve Burke: Steve Burke: leadership, people Stretch 80.0% and team, and personal development objectives Award % of salary 37.5% 75.0% 112.5% 150.0% Mark Allan: 80.7% Rob Hudson: 81.9% Steve Burke: 81.9% 1 Details of performance versus personal objectives for each of the three executive directors is further explained in the supplementary table below.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 97 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Key personal objectives Assessment of achievement of objectives Mark Allan To lead a review of strategy culminating in a Successful delivery of a Group strategy review leading to comprehensive Group strategic plan for Board approval.
a full strategic plan delivered, signed off by the Board and its successful communication as shown throughout this Lead the design and implementation of an appropriate Annual Report.
leadership team and organisational structure to deliver the strategic plan.
Delivered an organisational structure aligned to the revised strategy with no negative impact on current Put in place the foundations of an effective approach year objectives.
Successful development and first stage implementation Put in place a clear objective setting and bonus plan of the Groups people plan and wider succession planning.
for the Groups senior team.
Delivered a more focused approach to objective setting and bonus alignment for the senior leadership team, with further alignment to the overall performance of the Group.
Rob Hudson Continued development of the Groups finance team, Strong finance team developed with improvements which included a renewed team structure with the delivered on transactional finance and increasing the appropriate profile and skillsets.
contribution of Financial Planning & Analysis to the business.
Leading and driving the strategic plan through the year alongside the Chief Executive.
A broader role beyond that of finance with regard to operational coordination and in particular a focus on IT As part of the strategic plan identifying opportunities to ensure the function effectively supports the Groups regarding St. Modwens funding structure.
Development of refinancing plan and successful progress in the year to deliver an unsecured 475m bank club facility by the end of 2017.
In light of both corporate and individual performance, the Committee determined that the following bonus awards be made: Award Corporate Award Personal Total award Salary on which bonus Executive director as a % of salary as a % of salary as a % of salary award is calculated Total bonus award Mark Allan 92.9% 28.1% 121.0% 565,000 683,650 1 Steve Burke 92.9% 30.0% 122.9% 95,442 117,298 Rob Hudson 92.9% 30.0% 122.9% 281,875 346,424 1 Salary paid to Steve Burke to the date he passed away.
Bonus payments to Mark Allan and Rob Hudson were conditional upon them undertaking to invest at least 40% of the bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance, in the Companys shares and to retain those shares for a minimum period of three years.
The bonus payment to Steve Burkes estate was scaled back pro rata to the proportion of the financial year worked.
When determining performance against Steve Burkes bonus objectives, the Committee took due account of the fact that a number of them were not capable of achievement at the time of his passing.
Long-term incentives audited information 2015 PSP The three-year performance period for the 2015 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2017.
The performance conditions which applied to the awards together with actual performance are summarised in the table below.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Actual Proportion of Performance measure Weighting performance performance performance performance performance award to vest Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50% 8.92% 0.0% TSR relative to FTSE All-Share 50% of award Equal 12.5% 120% 50% return of 0.0% Real Estate Investment to Index of Index 11.44% & Services Index Total 0.0% The Committee therefore determined that the 2015 PSP awards will lapse in full.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 98 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 2017 PSP On 7 July 2017, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors as nil cost options: Face value of award % of award that would vest 2 Executive director Basis of award 000 Number of shares for threshold performance 1 Mark Allan 180% of salary 1,017 278,500 20% Rob Hudson 150% of salary 423 115,785 20% 1 As reported last year, Mark Allan received a recruitment-related PSP award over shares worth 180% of salary i. e. higher than the 150% policy level.
2 Calculated using the average share price of 365.17 pence which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded being the average over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
The performance conditions which apply to these PSP awards are summarised below.
The performance period started on 1 December 2016 and will end on 30 November 2019.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum 2 2 Performance measure Link to strategy performance performance performance performance 1 Relative TSR performance Rewards outperformance of the returns Companys 20% Companys 100% generated by a comparator group TSR is ranked TSR is ranked 50% of award comprising listed company peers at median at or above of the the upper Directly correlates reward with the return comparator quartile of the delivered to shareholders through share groups TSR comparator price growth and dividend payments groups TSR Provides an objective measure of the Companys long-term success Total accounting return Rewards delivery of significant continued 5% average 20% 11% average 100% long-term added value per annum per annum 50% of award Key internal measure of the Companys long-term performance Reflects value added by the Companys asset management activities 1 The constituents of the TSR peer group for the 2017 awards are: A&J Mucklow Group Grainger LondonMetric Property St. Modwen Properties British Land Company Great Portland Estates Picton Property Income Town Centre Securities Capital & Counties Properties Hammerson Regional REIT U and I Group Capital & Regional Hansteen Holdings SEGRO Workspace Group Derwent London Helical Land Securities Group Shaftesbury 2 Vesting of awards between threshold and maximum performance will be on a straight-line basis.
Performance below threshold will result in nil vesting for that measure.
The 2017 awards will be subject to an additional performance condition whereby the Committee must be satisfied that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the three-year performance period.
The 2017 awards will also be subject to a compulsory two-year post-vesting holding period, which will require executive directors to hold any shares vesting after tax for a period of two years, meaning there can be no disposal of shares for a period of at least five years from grant.
The holding period will remain in place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year holding period.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 99 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All PSP awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
In addition, all awards are subject to two underpinning conditions, namely that a the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period: and b if no dividend has been paid on the last normal dividend date prior to the vesting date or if the Committee believes that no dividend will be paid in respect of the year in which the award vests, the award will not vest at that time and vesting will be delayed subject to continued employment until dividend payments are resumed.
PSP awards granted in 2015 and 2016 have been pro rated for the time employed during the performance period with the extent of vesting determined on the third anniversary of grant i. e. in 2018 and 2019 respectively.
As noted above the 2015 award lapsed in full due to the performance conditions not being met.
3 Awards lapsed in full on 5 March 2017.
Further details can be found in last years Directors remuneration report on page 87.
4 The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded, under the rules of the PSP, was 365.17 pence, the three-day average share price before the date of the award.
5 The Company agreed to compensate Mark Allan for unvested share-based incentives awarded to him by his previous employer and forfeited as a consequence of him leaving to join St. Modwen on 1 November 2016.
The compensation comprised the grant, on 2 November 2016, of an award over 694,325 shares in the Company.
Vesting of the first two tranches of the award occurred on 10 April 2017 and Mark Allan exercised the awards on 6 July 2017.
Further details of the recruitment arrangements for Mark Allan can be found on page 90 of last years Directors remuneration report.
6 Award exercised reduced from 138,539 to 138,511 due to an alternative method of calculation adopted by Unite plc Mark Allans previous employer for the remaining balance of the award.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 100 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Saving Related Share Option Scheme SAYE SAYE awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Options held on Options held on Options granted Options exercised Options lapsed 30 November Executive director Date of grant 1 December 2016 during year during year during year 2017 Exercise price Exercise period 1 Steve Burke 15 08 16 3,658 508 3,150 246p 01 10 19 to 31 03 20 Rob Hudson 15 08 16 3,658 3,658 246p 01 10 19 to 31 03 20 1 Passed away on 13 March 2017.
SAYE options held were exercised pro rata by Steve Burkes estate.
The closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2017 was 390.8 pence and the price range during the year was 278.4 pence to 399.8 pence.
Pension entitlements audited information All executive directors receive a pension contribution of 15% of base salary which is paid either into the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution or a combination of both.
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by an executive director in the event that the value of their pension exceeds the statutory Lifetime Allowance.
Cash allowance in lieu of Pension contribution pension contribution Total Executive director 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Mark Allan 84,750 7,063 84,750 7,063 Steve Burke 23,331 14,316 26,090 14,316 49,421 Rob Hudson 42,281 41,250 42,281 41,250 23,331 141,347 74,403 141,347 97,734 Steve Burke was also a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme, which was closed to new members in 1999 and to future accrual in 2009.
Benefits are based on years of credited service and final pensionable pay: the maximum benefit generally payable under the scheme is two-thirds of final pensionable pay.
Information required by the pension regulations in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements for the part year in which Steve was an executive director is set out below.
Increase in accrued Increase in accrued pension during the Age at 30 November Accrued pension at Accrued pension at pension during the year excluding 1 1 2017 30 November 2016 13 March 2017 year inflation Executive director pa pa pa pa 2 2 Steve Burke 58 28,342 28,342 1 The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming an executive director as well as for qualifying services after becoming an executive director.
2 These figures have been calculated by applying deferred revaluation to Steve Burkes deferred pension as at 1 September 2009, being the date that accrual ceased under the defined benefits section of the scheme.
3 The following is additional information relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements applicable to Steve Burke: Normal retirement age is 65 years.
Retirement may take place at any age after age 55 subject to Company consent.
Pensions may be reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
No death in service benefit was paid and no additional benefits were due on early retirement.
Deferred pensions are assumed to increase in line with CPI capped at 5% per annum in the period before retirement.
Further information on the Companys pension scheme is shown in note 19 to the Group financial statements.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 101 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Payments to past directors and for loss of office audited information Steve Burke Details of Steve Burkes remuneration from 1 December 2016 to 13 March 2017 can be found in the table on page 96.
His estate was eligible to receive any bonus payment owed to Steve, subject to the achievement of performance measures and scaled back pro rata for the period from 1 December 2016 to 13 March 2017: further details can be found on pages 97 and 98.
Unvested PSP awards will continue, subject to the performance conditions.
Awards have been scaled back pro rata to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 13 March 2017: details can be found on page 100.
Satisfaction of the performance conditions will be assessed at the end of the relevant performance periods in line with the PSP rules.
Steves SAYE awards were exercisable to the extent of accumulated savings in the six months following cessation of employment in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and were exercised by his estate.
Bill Oliver Further to the disclosure in last years Directors remuneration report, Bill Oliver retired from the Board as Chief Executive and an executive director on 30 November 2016.
His employment with the Company also ended on this date.
The Committee exercised discretion under the rules of the PSP to allow unvested awards to continue subject to time pro-rating and performance assessment.
The 2014, 2015 and 2016 PSP Awards were pro rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 30 November 2016: details can be found on page 88 of last years Remuneration Report.
The PSP award granted to Bill in 2014 lapsed in full on 5 March 2017, as the performance conditions were not met.
In addition, as noted on page 98, neither absolute nor relative TSR measures achieved the threshold level of performance required for vesting of the 2015 PSP Award set by the Committee, such that the award over 71,561 shares will also lapse in full.
Bill remained eligible to be awarded a bonus, subject to the achievement of performance measures, in respect of the financial year ended 30 November 2016: details can be found on pages 85 and 86 of last years Remuneration Report.
In accordance with last years annual bonus outturn a payment of 265,904 was paid to Bill in February 2017.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are shown in the table below.
As at 30 November 2017 or on date of leaving the Board if earlier Long-term incentive awards vested Long-term incentive Ordinary shares but unexercised awards not yet vested SAYE awards Executive directors Mark Allan 185,427 622,933 1 Steve Burke 526,615 99,359 Rob Hudson 27,525 339,467 3,658 Non-executive directors Bill Shannon 95,000 Ian Bull 25,000 Kay Chaldecott 21,025 Simon Clarke 2,704,157 2 Jenefer Greenwood, OBE Lesley James, CBE 30,000 Richard Mully 70,000 1 As at 13 March 2017, the date of Steve Burkes death.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2017.
There have been no changes in these shareholdings or interests between 30 November 2017 and the date of this report.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 102 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Required shareholding In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders, executive directors are required to build up a holding of ordinary shares in the Company worth at least 200% of their base salary.
Until this has been achieved, an executive director is required to retain all the shares acquired through the bonus investment process as well as 50% of any exercised long-term incentive award.
Value of shareholding Ordinary shares held Shareholding requirement at 30 November 2017 1 Executive director as at 30 November 2017 as % of base salary as % of base salary Mark Allan 185,427 200% 128.26% Rob Hudson 27,525 200% 38.16% 1 Based on the closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2017 of 390.8p and salary as at 30 November 2017.
External appointments unaudited information Mark Allan is a trustee director on the non-executive board of Anchor Trust.
For the period from 1 December 2016 to 30 November 2017 he received and retained fees from Anchor Trust of 25,000.
Historic Company performance and Chief Executive remuneration unaudited information The following information allows comparison of the Companys TSR based on share price growth and dividends reinvested with the remuneration of the Chief Executive, over the last nine financial years.
Total Shareholder Return 600 500 400 300 200 100 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 30 Nov 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 St. Modwen FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services The chart is prepared in accordance with the required regulations.
It shows the Companys TSR and that of the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices based on an initial investment of 100 on 30 November 2008 and values at intervening financial year ends over a nine-year period to 30 November 2017.
Since the Company was a constituent of both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices during the majority of the period, these are considered to be appropriate benchmarks for the graph.
2 In addition to the annual bonus, the Chief Executive was also awarded a one-off, exceptional payment of 100,000 in relation to the successful equity raising and financial restructuring undertaken in the year.
3 Comprises 45.64% of the 2009 PSP awards and 45.89% of the 2010 PSP awards.
4 This relates to the value, on vesting, of tranches 1 and 2 of Mark Allans recruitment award i. e. not awards granted under the PSP.
See page 100 for further details.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 103 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to employees unaudited information The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus between the years ended 30 November 2016 and 30 November 2017 for the Chief Executive, and for all permanent employees of the Group.
Change in base salary Change in benefits Change in annual bonus % % % 1 2 Chief Executive 13.2 20.7 157 2 3 4 All permanent employees 2.5 0.0 28 1 Note that this table compares the salary, benefits and bonus of Bill Oliver in the year ended 30 November 2016 to Mark Allan in the year ended 30 November 2017.
2 General cost of living increase for permanent employees.
Including adjustments for promotions and recognition of exceptional performance, the weighted average increase in salary was 7.0%.
3 There was no change to the overall structure of benefits available to permanent employees.
Relative spend on pay unaudited information The table below shows the total expenditure on remuneration for all employees of the Group including pension, variable pay and social security costs compared to other key financial indicators as reported in the audited Group financial statements for the last two financial years.
Information in respect of profit and net asset value performance has been provided for context.
Relevant note to the Group Year ended Year ended Measure financial statements 30 November 2016 30 November 2017 % Increase Total spend on pay 4c 23.7m 33.5m 41.4% Profit before all tax 2a 60.8m 67.0m 10.2% Dividends paid 8 12.8m 13.5m 5.5% Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2c 955.2m 1,000.3m 4.7% Whilst total spend on pay in the above table increased by 41.4% in the year, as disclosed in note 4c of the Group financial statements, this is principally because average employee numbers increased by 25.2% in the year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 104 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information How we will apply our remuneration policy for 2017 18 Base salary In line with the general cost of living salary increase awarded to the Companys permanent employees and reflecting their continued strong performance, Mark Allan and Rob Hudson received an annual salary increase of 2.5% with effect from 1 December 2017.
In addition for the reasons described in the Chairmans Statement the Committee determined that the base salary for Rob Hudson should be increased by an additional 12.8%.
Base salary as at Base salary with effect Executive director 30 November 2017 from 1 December 2017 % Increase Mark Allan 565,000 579,125 2.5% Rob Hudson 281,875 325,000 15.3% Benefits and pension arrangements Benefits will be consistent with the policy detailed on page 89.
Mark Allan and Rob Hudson will receive cash allowances in lieu of pension contributions of 15% of base salary.
Annual bonus Executive directors will have the opportunity to be awarded a bonus of up to 150% of base salary.
Bonus awards will be based on achievement of the following measures: Weighting as % of Threshold On-target Stretch Super-stretch Measure Link to strategy award performance performance performance performance Corporate: Trading profit Reflects cash profitability of 25% Budget Budget Budget Budget the business after interest and -10% 10% 20% operating costs Total accounting return Recognises the delivery of 25% Budget Budget Budget Budget significant added value -15% 15% 30% See-through loan-to-value Ensures continued balance 25% Budget Budget Budget Budget sheet strength -5% 5% 10% Personal: Individual targets for Ensures that each director 25% Substantially Met Exceeded Significantly executive directors focuses on their individual met exceeded contribution in the broadest sense through business performance, leadership, people and team, and personal development objectives The Committee has set specific targets for all corporate measures, which reflect the Committees judgement of the ability of management to influence performance within the year.
Threshold performance will deliver 25% of the maximum opportunity, on-target performance 50% of the maximum, stretch 75% of the maximum and super stretch 100% of the maximum.
Stretch targets are demanding and will require a very substantial outperformance of budget to achieve payout.
The threshold, target, stretch and super stretch performance requirements for financial objectives, together with outcomes, will be disclosed in the Remuneration report for the year ending 30 November 2018.
This report will also include detailed commentary on the key deliverables, and assessment of outcomes, for personal objectives.
Reflecting the new policy introduced last year, the proportion of the overall bonus that is awarded for personal performance will be capped at one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
Any bonus awarded will be subject to the requirement to invest 40% of the net amount received in purchasing shares in the Company and to retain these shares for at least three years, irrespective of whether the executive director has met the shareholding requirement.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 105 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-term incentives PSP awards will be granted to executive directors over shares worth 150% of base salary and will be consistent with the long-term incentives policy detailed on page 89.
The performance measures and targets associated with the PSP awards are summarised in the table below.
The Committee is satisfied that the targets are suitably stretching.
Performance against each target will be measured independently over the three financial years ending on 30 November 2020.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Performance measure Link to strategy performance performance performance performance Relative TSR performance Rewards outperformance of the returns Companys 20% Companys 100% versus a bespoke group of generated by a comparator group TSR is ranked TSR is ranked real estate companies comprising listed company peers at median at or above of the the upper 50% of award Directly correlates reward with the return comparator quartile of the delivered to shareholders through share groups TSR comparator price growth and dividend payments groups TSR Provides an objective measure of the Companys long-term success Total accounting return Rewards delivery of continued long-term 5% average 20% 11% average 100% significant added value per annum per annum 50% of award Key internal measure of the Companys long-term performance Reflects value added by the Companys asset management activities Vesting of awards between threshold and maximum performance will be on a straight-line basis.
In calculating TSR, a three-month average is used at both the start and the end of the performance period to ensure that the calculation is not impacted by potential volatility arising from day-to-day share price fluctuations.
The comparator group comprises the companies listed on page 99.
The 2017 18 awards will be subject to an underpinning condition which the Committee must be satisfied has been met before permitting awards to vest, namely that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the three-year performance period.
The awards will also be subject to a compulsory two-year post-vesting holding period, which will require executive directors to hold any shares vesting after tax for a period of two years, meaning there can be no disposal of shares for a period of at least five years from grant.
Chairman and non-executive director fees Following a review by the Board, the annual base fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors have been increased in line with the cost of living salary increase awarded to the Companys employees with effect from 1 December 2017.
Fee as at Fee with effect from 30 November 2017 1 December 2017 % Increase Base fee Chairman 163,113 167,190 2.5% Non-executive directors 44,801 45,921 2.5% Additional fees Senior Independent Director 9,000 9,000 Audit Committee Chairman 9,000 9,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 9,000 9,000 St. Modwen Properties PLC 106 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Dates of appointment of directors Date of contract original Director Date of appointment letter of appointment Expiry of current term Executive directors 1 Mark Allan 1 November 2016 6 April 2016 N A Steve Burke 30 November 2006 18 January 2016 N A Rob Hudson 28 September 2015 20 April 2015 N A Non-executive directors 2 Bill Shannon 1 November 2010 18 October 2010 31 October 2018 Ian Bull 1 September 2014 21 August 2014 31 August 2020 Kay Chaldecott 22 October 2012 22 October 2012 21 October 2018 Simon Clarke 11 October 2004 4 October 2004 10 October 2018 Jenefer Greenwood, OBE 1 June 2017 1 June 2017 31 May 2020 Lesley James, CBE 19 October 2009 19 October 2009 18 October 2018 Richard Mully 1 September 2013 16 July 2013 31 August 2019 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016 and appointed Chief Executive on 1 December 2016.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 107 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Committee membership The Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that they have a sound and objective understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, executive remuneration matters.
Ongoing training is undertaken as required.
Committee meetings and attendance during 1 Remuneration Committee members the year ended 30 November 2017 Lesley James, CBE Chairman 4 4 2 Ian Bull Member 3 4 Kay Chaldecott Member 4 4 3 Jenefer Greenwood, OBE Member 3 3 Richard Mully Member 4 4 Bill Shannon Member 4 4 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend.
2 Unable to attend the meeting in February 2017 due to a prior business commitment.
3 Appointed to the Committee on 1 June 2017.
Remuneration Committee attendees by invitation Mark Allan Chief Executive Simon Clarke Non-executive director Jane Saint Group HR Director Andrew Eames General Counsel & Company Secretary Interim and secretary to the Committee appointed 9 November 2017 Representatives from Remuneration Korn Ferry Hay Group appointed 1 December 2017, replacing New Bridge Street Committee adviser Advice provided to the Committee Korn Ferry Hay Group was appointed by the Committee with effect from 1 December 2017 following a tender process to provide independent advice on remuneration matters.
Representatives from Korn Ferry Hay Group attend Committee meetings and provide advice to the Committee Chairman outside of meetings as necessary.
Fees are charged on a cost incurred basis and the fees charged by the previous adviser New Bridge Street in the year ended 30 November 2017 totalled 118,783.
Korn Ferry Hay Group is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under the Groups code which sets out the scope and conduct of the role of executive remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
Korn Ferry Hay Group has no other connection with the Company, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided is objective and independent.
The Committee also receives input from the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director on the remuneration arrangements of the other executive directors and of the Company Secretary, and advice from the Company Secretary on governance matters.
Neither the Chief Executive nor the Company Secretary were present when their own remuneration was discussed.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 108 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Activities of the Committee The Committee met on four occasions in the financial year ended 30 November 2017 to consider the following matters: to consider investor feedback on the Companys remuneration policy and last years Directors remuneration report: to review market trends and the governance environment in respect of remuneration arrangements: to review the ongoing operation of the directors remuneration policy: to determine the pay arrangements for Steve Burke following his passing: to review the executive directors base salaries and the fee payable to the Chairman: to set corporate and personal objectives for the 2016 17 annual bonus arrangements for executive directors and undertake an assessment of performance against targets for 2015 16: to assess and approve the outturn of PSP awards granted in 2014 and the recruitment-related awards made to Mark Allan: to approve share awards granted in 2017 together with associated performance criteria: and to prepare this report on directors remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting at the AGM The table below details the results of the shareholder vote to approve last years Directors remuneration report and the Companys remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
1 Resolution AGM Votes for % of vote for Votes against % of vote against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of Directors Remuneration Report 2017 135,483,900 94.84% 7,377,481 5.16% 142,861,381 33,143,122 Approval of remuneration policy 2017 165,005,074 96.25% 6,435,537 3.75% 171,440,611 4,563,893 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
Dilution limits In line with the rules of the PSP and Employee Share Option Plan, and the current SAYE Plan, the Company observes the recommendation of the Investment Association that the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy awards is restricted to 10% 5% for discretionary schemes of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in any rolling 10-year period.
The total number of shares which could be allotted under the Companys share schemes compared to the dilution limits as at 30 November 2017 was as follows: Type of scheme Limit Actual All schemes 10% 3.95% Executive schemes only 5% 3.84% As at 30 November 2017, the Companys Employee Share Trust the Trust held 519,906 shares 2016: 269,334 shares in the Company to enable it to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards.
In accordance with the Trust deed, the Trust has waived the right to receive dividends paid on these shares with the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Lesley James Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 February 2018 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 109
