DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Meetings and Composition of the Committee The Committee comprises Ben Gordon, Ian McHoul, Sue Clark John Daly and myself, as Chair.
The company Chairman Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Chief Executive Officer who may attend by invitation do not attend meetings when their individual remuneration is discussed.
The Committee meets as necessary and at least three times a year.
As Chair, I report on the outcome of the Committees meetings to the Board.
Main activities during the year Full details of the Committees responsibilities and of its activities are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 76.
Committee evaluation The Committee was included in the Board evaluation performed during the year, the details of which can be found on pages 54 and 55. the expectations of shareholders, government and the public In my first year as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee for how directors should be paid.
I was pleased as part of this Committee Iam pleased to present the Directors process to consult with our largest shareholders to understand Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 1 October their points of view and feedback on our remuneration proposals.
I would like to thank John Daly for leading the Committee These have been taken into consideration where possible in the prior to my appointment in September 2017 and the other new Remuneration Policy presented in this Remuneration Report.
members for welcoming me into my new role.
I would also The result of this review was that the features of the previous like to take this opportunity to say how pleased the Committee Remuneration Policy remain consistent and aligned with our was to continue toreceive a very positive response at the remuneration principles and strategic objectives as a business.
January 2017 AGM with 94% votes For the Annual Report The proposed Remuneration Policy is therefore largely unchanged on Remuneration.
The Committee remains very mindful of except for a number of amendments to align the remuneration the current focus on executive pay and its implications across structure with best practice expected by our shareholders and all our stakeholders and so I trust the actions taken over the wider stakeholders as follows: course of the year and what is disclosed in the Remuneration Report reflect that this responsibility is very much at the Introduction of a two year post vesting holding period to forefront of the Committees decision making.
the Executive Share Option Plan ESOP and Performance The contents of this annual statement provide an overview Share Plan PSP awards under the of the new Remuneration Policy and remuneration outcomes Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP : for the financial year ended 1 October 2017 and a summary Increase the CFOs minimum shareholding requirement of the business context in which those outcomes have to 200% of salary from 100%.
Limit the use of additional LTIP awards on recruitment The remainder of the report sets out: to only replace awards foregone from the previous employer on a like-for-like basis.
An at a glance summary of the new Remuneration Policy that will be implemented in 2017 18 subject to shareholder The LTIP will continue to consist of share options under the approval at the 2018 AGM and the remuneration outcomes ESOP and performance shares under the PSP.
Pages 64 to 66 the LTIP is to motivate andincentivise the delivery of sustained, The proposed Remuneration Policy for Directors to be long-term performance and encourage share price and dividend voted on by shareholders at the AGM in January 2018. growth over the performance period of theawards.
Pages 67 to 74 The Committee noted that there is a drive from certain The Annual Report on remuneration, along with the shareholders for simplification of long-term incentives by Chairs statement, is subject to shareholder vote at the consolidating LTIPs into a single vehicle.
The Committee is January 2018 AGM and sets out the detail of payments sympathetic to this point of view, however felt that to continue made to directors in respect of the financial year ended with the current balance of ESOP and PSP given its relevance 1October 2017.
Page84 and link to the strategy was best to align participants with our shareholders and incentivises long-term shareholder value 2017 Remuneration Policy review creation.
The Committee also noted that emerging shareholder 2016 17 was the final year of the current Remuneration Policy guidance and the Governments response to the green paper that was approved by our shareholders at the January 2015 AGM.
on Corporate Governance Reform encouraged flexibility for Throughout 2017, the Committee conducted a comprehensive companies to design and operate LTIPs that were most review of the executives remuneration arrangements and relevant to them.
The Committee is therefore confident that the considered what changes, if any, should be made for the next continuation of the current LTIP model is the most appropriate policy cycle.
In conducting this review the Committee was to align executives with the long-term strategy of the business.
very mindful of the evolving executive pay environment and 62 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information It is also intended that the performance measures under The above changes result in an increase of 16% to the overall the LTIP will remain the same.
The Committee will retain target remuneration of the CFO and we would note that this the flexibility to select the performance measures it considers is still lower than the total target pay of the previous CFO appropriate each year but intends to operate the same and moderately positioned below median versus our peer group.
performance measures as currently in place and would only The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity to large increases make significant changes following consultation with our in base pay levels and considered the proposed approach shareholders.
For clarity: carefully in this context.
The intention of the salary increase is to bring the CFOs salary to a level that the Committee ESOP award vesting will be dependent 100% on earnings considers appropriate given his performance and importance per share EPS performance: and to the business, also noting that the CFO has not received PSP award vesting will be dependant 75% on EPS growth a salary increase since his appointment: this illustrates and 25% on total shareholder return TSR performance the Committees general commitment to restraint, only relative to a peer group.
making significant changes on a targeted basis where these are felt necessary.
EPS growth is one of the businesss key KPIs and performance The moderate increase in PSP to bring the CFO in line with against this metric will drive long-term shareholder value.
the maximum allowed for under the Remuneration Policy The Committee reviewed the target range of 3% to 8% p. a. recognises his experience in role and will provide stronger EPS growth to achieve a payout from threshold to maximum alignment for the CFO with the long-term performance of the and determined that it remains appropriate and stretching given business and our shareholders.
We would note that in making the businesss internal expectations, consensus estimates and the changes set out above, the CFOs ESOP maximum the current economic environment, ensuring that maximum opportunity will remain below that allowed for under the payout can only be achieved where exceptional performance Remuneration Policy and that of the previous incumbent.
is delivered to our shareholders.
Given these changes and as set out above, the Committee Relative TSR will continue to be measured against a bespoke has concluded that the minimum shareholding requirements group of companies in similar industries no change to the peer for the CFO will be increased to 200% of base salary from the group proposed as the Committee considered it important current 100%.
This recognises the additional potential value that executives only receive a portion of value through the the CFO may receive under the LTIP, improves his alignment LTIP for outperforming peer companies.
with shareholders and is in line with best practice.
Return on invested capital ROIC over the performance period will continue to be considered by the Committee when Business performance and remuneration outcomes assessing the outcome of the LTIP to ensure that it remains for the year appropriate relative to the EPS growth delivered.
As detailed in the Chief Financial Officers review, the overall The annual bonus will continue to be payable fully in cash.
performance of the business has been strong.
This has resulted This maintains an appropriate overall balance of remuneration in the following incentive outcomes: based on long and nearer term performance.
Annual bonus pay-outs for Executive Directors at 82% Changes to the CFOs remuneration package of the maximum opportunity, in particular due to strong When the Board appointed the CFO in November 2015, pro t and cash ow performance.
his total package was set significantly below that of his The PSP awarded in 2014 will vest at 56.2% of the predecessor circa 18% and in line with the lower quartile maximum opportunity re ecting sustained EPS growth of our benchmarking peer group based on the top half of over the period and relative TSR performance over the the FTSE 250.
Specifically, his base salary was set at a 10% last three years.
discount to the previous CFO, PSP was set at a maximum of The ESOP awarded in 2014 will vest at 61.1% of the 80% of salary vs 100% and the ESOP set at a maximum of maximum opportunity due to strong EPS growth 200% of salary vs 250%.
Further, no buy-out awards were performance over the last three years.
made to the new CFO on appointment to compensate for awards forgone from his previous employer.
This approach In line with the remuneration reporting regulations, details reflects the Committees commitment to paying only what is of the performance targets and actual achievement against required to secure the best talent within the business and this these are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
remains our general philosophy in setting pay on recruitment.
Additionally, the Committee have agreed to increase the The CFOs package was set on the basis that the Committee CEOs base salary from 600,000 to 612,000, an inflationary would keep it under review and may award increases over the increase of 2% in line with the 2% awarded to the wider UK first three years following appointment that exceeded that of employee population.
the wider workforce as disclosed in previous remuneration The Committee is aware of the increasing interest from reports subject to the CFOs development and performance shareholders and governance organisations on the remit of in role.
The Committee noted that the CFO is now fully Remuneration Committees with regards to the wider employee established in his role and is critical to the execution of Britvics population including the publication of additional data such as the strategy and therefore determined it is appropriate to make ratio of CEO pay to the all employee population.
The Committee changes to the CFOs pay to recognise his performance to will review its remit over 2018 in view of evolving regulatory date and to ensure that his package appropriately reflects his requirements and best practice to ensure it meets the new experience and importance to the business.
The Committee requirements when they are introduced.
therefore intends to: I look forward to receiving your support on the new Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration Increase the CFOs base salary to 375,000 from 340,000. at the January 2018 AGM.
Should you have any questions This consists of an 8% adjustment to re ect development relating to our approach to executive remuneration, please and performance in role since appointment and a 2% feel free to contact me at investors@britvic.
in ationary increase in line with that awarded to the wider UK employee population: and Increase the CFOs maximum PSP opportunity from 80% of salary to 100% of salary.
Sue Clark Chair of the Remuneration Committee Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
