GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report sets out Thomas Cooks Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy.
The Policy was subject to a binding Shareholder vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 9 February 2017 and was effective from this date.
REMUNERATION PHILOSOPHY AND PRINCIPLES Thomas Cook Group plcs Remuneration Policy supports the organisations overall remuneration philosophy of pay for performance, and is based on the following principles: Attracts and motivates: Drives performance: Provides balance: Creates long-term value: Attracts and motivates high-calibre Focuses Management on rigorous Provides an appropriate mix of fixed, Is linked to the creation of long-term talent without paying more than execution of Thomas Cooks strategy short and long-term  value through long-term isnecessary with the right behaviours in line with related pay via simple structures performance targets and share-based the Companys values remuneration Facilitates delivery of a level of total Reflects the Companys relentless remuneration which is competitive Performance-related pay plans focus on performance and preserves Remuneration should support the with companies of a similar size, will provide meaningful reward to and enhances company reputation creation of long-term Shareholder international aspect and complexity, Management, dependent upon the without encouraging excessive value and the building of a strong and inthe relevant market for talent satisfaction of challenging targets risk-taking sustainable future for Thomas Cook, which are critical to the delivery of worthy of our customers and our ourbusiness strategy heritage THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE POLICY TABLE Element Purpose and link to strategic Operation objectives Base salary Provides fixed remuneration Salaries are paid monthly and are normally reviewed annually.
There is no automatic right to an increase eachyear for the role, which reflects Consideration is typically given to a range of factors including: the size and scope of size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities: the Executive Directors responsibilities performance and experience in the role: typical pay levels for comparable roles in companies of a similar size, international aspect and complexity Attracts, motivates and intherelevant market: retains the high-calibre talent necessary to deliver the economic climate and market conditions in which the business operates: and the business strategy overall salary budgets and levels across the Group.
Retirement To provide competitive Payment may be made either into a pension Plan for example, a defined contribution Plan or into such other benefits post-retirement benefits arrangement the Committee considers has the same economic benefit or paid as a cash allowance with Company contributions set as a percentage of basic salary in lieu of any Company pension contributions Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent Peter Fankhauser also has a German pension provision relating to his employment with Thomas Cook prior to his necessary to deliver the appointment to the Thomas Cook Group Board which has been frozen at the level accrued to 26 November 2014 businessstrategy thedate he was appointed CEO and will be payable from age 60.
Peter has the option to commute the annual pension to a one-off lump sum payment at age 60.
If Peters employment is terminated without good cause, a pension may be Set at an appropriate level paid from termination ofrisk and cost to the Group Benefits Ensures the overall Benefits may include those currently available to Executive Directors including a car allowance, a travel allowance remuneration package or reimbursements, tax advice, private healthcare benefits for the Executive Directors and their immediate family, iscompetitive employee travel concessions and life assurance.
These are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they provide a competitive remuneration package and facilitate the delivery of the business strategy Attracts and retains the high-calibre talent Executive Directors will be entitled to take part in any all-employee benefits and share plans on the same basis necessaryto deliver the asother employees business strategy The Company reserves the right to offer benefits to Executive Directors depending on their individual circumstances, which may include but are not limited to housing, travel, healthcare and other allowances In the case of non-UK Executive Directors, the Committee may consider additional allowances in line with standard practice for that region Annual bonus Focuses Management Measures and targets are set annually and payout levels are determined by the Committee after the year end based on rigorous execution of on performance against those targets Thomas Cooks strategy The Committee has full discretion to amend the bonus payout upwards or downwards, if in its judgement any onan annual basis formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the Company, taking Rewards annual account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company performance against Executive Directors must defer at least one-third of their annual bonus into Company shares which then vest two challenging annual targets years after the cash bonus payment date and key performance Clawback and malus provisions will apply to the cash and deferred elements of the annual bonus as described in the indicators which are critical notes to this table to the delivery of our business strategy Eligibility for any bonus payment will be forfeited if the participant leaves employment before the cash bonus payment date, or before the vesting date in the case of any deferred share award, unless in specific good leaver circumstances Compulsory deferral into the Companys shares provides Good leaver terms are described in more detail in the Service Contracts and Loss of Office Payments section of this a link to the creation of Policy long-term sustainable value, and therefore aretentionelement The clawback and malus provisions enables the Company to mitigate risk 90 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Whilst the Committee has not set a monetary Performance, through our performance Management process, is one of the key considerations in reviewing maximum, ordinarily base salary increases will usually andsetting salary.
not exceed the average increase awarded to other employees in the Group More significant increases may be made to salary levels in certain circumstances as required, for example, toreflect: increase in scope of role or responsibility: performance in role: and an Executive Director being moved to appropriate market positioning over time.
Contributions into any Plan or paid as a cash allowance N one.
will be up to 30% of base salary per annum.
The Committee has not set a monetary maximum given N one.
the value of benefits will vary based on the individuals circumstances and reserves the right to provide such level of benefits as it considers appropriate to support the ongoing strategy of the Company.
For maximum performance: The Committee will have regard to various performance measures which will be determined by the Committee measured over the relevant financial year, when determining bonus outcomes 150% of salary No less than 70% of the award is based on financial measures and up to 30% of the award may be based on the achievement of other strategic or role-specific objectives, which may be financial or non-financial For achievement of a threshold performance level the minimum level of performance that results in any payment, no more than 20% of the maximum for each element of the bonus pays out For achievement of a mid performance level, no more than 60% of the maximum for each performance metric in relation to the bonus pays out For achievement of a maximum performance level, 100% of the maximum pays out THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FUTURE POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategic Operation objectives Long-term Focuses Management A summary of the key features of the Plan is set out below: share-based on rigorous execution of awards will vest dependent upon the achievement of performance conditions set by the Committee measured over incentive Plan Thomas Cooks strategy over a performance period of at least three years: the longer-term awards made under the new PSP approved by Shareholders in February 2017, i. e. awards made from December 2018 Rewards sustained onwards, will be subject to an additional holding period currently two years following the end of the performance performance against period, unless the Committee determines otherwise: challenging long-term the Committee has full discretion to amend the number of shares that vest upwards or downwards, if in its targets and key performance judgement any formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the indicators which are critical Company, taking account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company: and to the delivery of our the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting unless in specific good leaver business strategy circumstances.
Good leaver terms are described in more detail in the Service Contracts and Loss of Office Long-term performance Payments section of this Policy.
targets and share-based Clawback and malus provisions will apply as described in the notes to this table.
remuneration support the creation of long-term Shareholder value Strategic shareThe Strategic Share Incentive A summary of the key features is set out below: based award Plan SSIP provides focus on an individual Executive Director can only participate in the SSIP once every four years: near-term strategic targets participation in the SSIP precludes participation in the PSP or any other long-term incentive plan in respect of that Updates to Policy that are important to the particular financial year: following AGM: future strategic success of an initial share-based award may be made based on the achievement against predefined strategic performance Thomas Cook target s assessed over a period of at least two financial years: Maximum award Long-term TSR targets level is capped the number of shares in the initial share-based award will be determined following the assessment of the strategic support the creation of longat 200% aligned target s : term Shareholder value to maximum PSP the initial share-based award will be subject to a TSR multiplier measured over three years commencing in the year award the individual is invited to participate in the SSIP: The Committee awards will be subject to an additional holding period following the end of the TSR performance period, unless the will only use Committee determines otherwise: this award the Committee has full discretion to amend the level of vesting upwards or downwards, if in its judgement any following formulaic output does not produce a fair result for either the individual Executive Director or the Company, taking consultation account of the overall business performance or situation of the Company: and with major the award will lapse if the participant leaves employment before the initial share-based award is made, unless Shareholders there are specific good leaver circumstances.
If the participant leaves employment following the grant of the initial share-based award, the award will subsist on its original terms unless the Committee determines otherwise Clawback and malus provisions will apply as described in the notes to this table Chairman and To reward individuals for The Committee is responsible for determining the fees for the Chairman of the Company Non-Executive fulfilling the relevant role The fees for the other Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board Director fees Attracts and retains The fee structure may include: individuals with the skills, a basic fee: experience and knowledge to contribute to an additional fees for chairmanship or membership of Board Committees: effectiveBoard additional fees for further responsibilities for example, Senior Independent Directorship : and travel and hotel costs that are deemed to be an employment benefit by the relevant tax authority may also be paid along with any associated tax liability.
PAYMENTS WHICH ARE NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITHTHE POLICY The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the 2014 Annual General Meeting the date the Companys first Shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Shareholder-approved Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
92 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Under the Plan rules, the aggregate value of all awards The performance measures for the PSP will be a combination of financial measures and share price-based measures, made in respect of any financial year must not exceed measured over at least a three-year performance period.
Normally, the weightings will be as follows: 200% of base salary.
at least 40% will be based on financial measures: The normal maximum face value of awards is 150% of at least 40% will be based on share price-based measures: and base salary.
However, the Committee has a discretion the remaining proportion may be based either on financial or share price-based measures.
to award up to the Plan rules maximum, when it The performance measures may be adjusted, following grant, by the Committee to ensure a consistent basis of believes the situation warrants a higher level of award.
calculation and to provide a fair reflection of the Companys performance For achievement of a threshold performance level which is the minimum level of performance that results in any part of an award vesting, no more than 25% of each respective element of the award will vest For achievement of a maximum performance level which is the highest level of performance that results in any additional vesting, 100% of each respective element of the award will vest The Committee may determine that a target level of performance is applicable to the award.
The target performance level will be between threshold and maximum performance levels and will be set in the context of the business Plan.
For achievement of the target performance, between 50% and 70% of each respective element of the award will vest Normally, there will be straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum, or when applicable, between threshold and target and between target and maximum An initial award of shares of up to 150% of base salary Awards will be subject to i a performance condition measuring strategic targets over at least two years and ii a can be made dependent on the achievement against performance condition relating to the Companys TSR measured over a period of at least threeyears strategic targets.
For achievement of a threshold performance level against the strategic target which is the minimum level of 1 This initial award of shares may be increased by 33% performance that results in an initial award being made, no more than 25% of the maximum initial award will be or decreased by 50% dependent on TSR performance made i. e. the overall maximum award size in respect of any For achievement of a maximum performance level against the strategic targets which is the highest level of 1 financial year is 200% ofsalary.
performance that results in an initial award being made, an award equal to 100% of the maximum initial award will 1 The maximum award size was approved at 225%, however was be made subsequently capped at 200% and is reflected in the wording 1 The initial award can then be increased by 33% or decreased by 50% based on TSR performance ensuring that above and throughout this Policy.
through the whole vesting period the award is subject to performance 1 The maximum award size was approved at 225%, however was subsequently capped at 200% and is reflected in the wording above and throughout this Policy The maximum level of fees will not exceed the limit set N one out in the Companys Articles of Association and will be set at a level which the Committee or the Board, asappropriate considers: reflects the time commitment and contribution that is expected from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: and appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Malus and clawback may be applied in the following circumstances: EXPLANATORY DETAIL FOR FUTURE POLICY TABLE Common award terms a material adverse misstatement or misrepresentation of the Companys or any Group members financial statements: and or Awards under any of the Companys share Plans referred to in this the participant or their team having engaged in gross misconduct report may: or in conduct which resulted in significant losses, as determined a be granted as conditional share awards or nil or nominal-cost by the Committee: and or options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the Company having suffered serious reputational damage or the same economic effect: financial downturn, as determined by the Committee, as a result b have any performance conditions applicable to them amended of any action or in the case of awards under the new PSP or SSIP, or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which any action or omission taken by the participant, or their team.
causes the Committee to determine an amended or substituted Salary, pension and benefits are not subject to clawback.
performance condition s would not be materially less difficult to satisfy: Shareholding requirements c incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a shareholding shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been in the Company to a value of at least 200 per cent of base salary paid on the shares under an award, that vest up to the time of within a five-year period commencing on appointment as an vesting or where the award is subject to a holding period, at Executive Director.
the end of the holding period.
This amount may be calculated Unless the Committee determines otherwise, those Executive assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Directors who do not at any point meet the shareholding Companys shares on a cumulative basis: requirements must hold any shares vesting net of tax under the d be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and Companys share plans until the requirements are met.
e be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share Policy for the remuneration of employees generally capital or any fide-merger, fide-listing, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle of pay for performance.
Reward should Explanation of chosen performance measures and the target be achieved for delivery of our business strategy and should be setting process sufficient to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre talent, without Performance measures have been selected by the Committee to paying more than is necessary, with remuneration based on reflect the targets and key performance indicators that are critical market rates.
to the delivery of our business strategy as shown on page 85.
Thomas Cook has operations based in a number of different Challenging performance targets are set by the Committee each countries and employees with different levels of skills and year for the annual bonus plan, PSP and when applicable, the SSIP.
experience, and whilst based on the over-arching principle of When setting these targets, the Committee will take into account pay for performance, reward policies may vary depending upon a number of different reference points, including the Companys these factors.
business Plan and consensus analyst forecasts of the Companys performance.
Full vesting will only occur for what the Committee APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION considers to be stretching performance against these targets.
When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment Malus and Clawback of a new Executive Director, the Committee will apply the following principles: As highlighted in the Policy table, malus and clawback arrangements are in place.
The following elements of the remuneration package The remuneration package will be sufficient to attract, motivate are subject to these provisions: and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy the cash part of the annual bonus will be subject to clawback The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than provisions for a period of at least two years following payment: is necessary the unvested deferred annual bonus shares will be subject to In the next applicable Annual Remuneration Report, the malus provisions: and Committee will explain to Shareholders the rationale for the the PSP and SSIP will be subject to malus and clawback provisions relevant arrangements until the end of any holding period for a period of five years from the grant of a PSP award, or in the case of the SSIP, the date the Executive Director was invited to participate in the SSIP.
94 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE The following variations may be considered by the Committee for For an individual becoming Executive Directors as a result of an inclusion in a recruitment package for an Executive Director: internal promotion from within Thomas Cook or as a result of an acquisition, any awards under other arrangements which were Element Approach made prior to joining the Board may be allowed to continue under the original terms, or under a revised basis such as a roll-over into Initial An initial long-term incentive award may be made in Thomas Cook shares if the Committee determines appropriate.
long-term line with the opportunity in the Policy table either incentive 200% under the PSP, or 150% under the SSIP with the Fee levels for a new Chairman or new Non-Executive Directors 1 award opportunity to increase to 200% upon vesting subject will be determined in accordance with the Policy set out in the to TSR performance.
1 The maximum award size was approved at 225%, however was subsequently capped at 200% and is reflected in the wording above and throughout this Policy.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LOSS OF The Committee will ensure: OFFICEPAYMENTS the award is linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance targets.
The Committee Executive Directors has the flexibility to use different performance Executive Directors have Company service contracts.
For Peter measures and weightings to those set out in the Fankhauser and Michael Healy the service contracts provide Policytable: for a six-month notice period, from both the Company and the the award will be subject to the leaver provisions Executive Director set out in the Service Contracts and Loss of Office If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Payments section: and awards will only be made following consultation.
Director with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made.
This may include base salary, pension and benefits Initial annual The initial annual bonus opportunity will be in line with The extent to which any performance linked elements of an bonus the opportunity of 150%, as set out in the Policy table.
Executive Directors remuneration package will be delivered will opportunity The Committee will ensure the award is linked to depend on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure the achievement of appropriate and challenging and whether the Committee considers the Executive Director performance targets.
The Committee has the flexibility to be a good leaver.
A good leaver scenario may constitute to use different performance measures and weightings circumstances where the Executive Director leaves because to those set out in the Policy table.
of disability, injury, ill-health, redundancy or retirement or the Compensation The terms of any compensation will be determined Executive Directors employing company or business being sold out for forfeited by taking into account the terms of any forfeited of the Group, for any other reason that the Committee determines awards awards, including: appropriate, or on the Executive Directors death performance achieved or likely to be achieved: If an Executive Director leaves as a good leaver during the annual the proportion of performance vesting period bonus performance year or before the normal bonus payment remaining: and date, a bonus payment in respect of the year may be made, which the form and timing of the original award.
will be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the performance year Notice period The initial notice period may be longer than the Companys elapsed and performance achieved at the end of the performance six-month Policy up to a maximum of 24 months.
This bonus may be paid in such proportions of cash and However, this will reduce by one month for every month shares as determined by the Committee and paid on the normal served, until the Companys Policy position is reached.
payment dates If the participant leaves as a good leaver before the end of the Relocation Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate deferral period, any unvested deferred bonus awards will vest at costs relocation costs, in line with market practice.
TheCommittee will seek to ensure that no more the normal vesting date ispaidthan is necessary.
Any good leavers unvested awards under the PSP vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account performance achieved against any relevant performance targets Under reporting regulations, Thomas Cook is required to set out and the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a new SSIP awards will lapse if the individual leaves prior to the initial Executive Director in respect of their recruitment.
The Committee share-based award being made, unless in a good leaver scenario, has set this figure in line with the maximum allowed under the defined for the purposes of the SSIP as death, ill-health, injury short-term and long-term incentive Plans combined, being either or disability only.
If a participant in the SSIP leaves after the 350 per cent if a PSP award has been made, or 300 per cent rising 1 initial share-based award has already been made, the award will to a maximum of 350 per cent based on the TSR multiplier if a SSIP continue to subsist on its original terms, unless the Committee has been made, in addition to the maximum opportunity under the determines otherwise annual bonus.
This excludes the value of any compensation for forfeited awards.
1 The maximum award size was approved at 225 per cent, however was subsequently capped at 200 per cent and is reflected in the wording above and throughout this Policy.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Where PSP and SSIP awards are subject to an additional OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS holding period, they will be released following the end of the The Company recognises the benefits to the individual, and to the holding period, unless in the case of death when vesting will be Group, of Executive Directors taking on external appointments accelerated.
Awards structured as options shall be exercisable as Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to the approval of the for a period of six months or 12 months in the case of death from Committee an Executive Director may accept such appointments vesting or where subject to a holding period, release at other companies or other similar advisery or consultative roles.
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of the Company other The Committee has set a limit of one external appointment for than as part of an internal re-organisation of the Thomas Cook each Executive Director, to one FTSE 100 or 250 company, or an Group, PSP and SSIP awards may vest to the extent determined international company of a similar size.
The Board will review the by the Committee, taking into account the performance achieved time commitment of all outside appointments and ensure that it against any relevant performance targets and, the proportion of is satisfied that this will not negatively impact upon the Executive the vesting period that has elapsed in the case of PSP awards Directors time commitment to the performance of Thomas and the period of time that has elapsed since grant in the case Cook duties.
of SSIP awards where the strategic performance condition s The Committee will allow Executive Directors to retain any have not yet been satisfied.
Vested awards will be released from fees payable.
any holding periods at the time of transaction.
Where a takeover occurs after an Executive Director has been invited to participate in the Plan but prior to the grant of the initial share-based award, STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS the Committee may grant the individual an award which takes into ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY account the Companys performance and the length of time the When setting the Policy for Executive Directors remuneration, individual has been a participant in the SSIP the Committee has regard to the pay and employment conditions Awards may alternatively be rolled over into new shares of an elsewhere within the Group.
This includes consideration of: acquiring company or at the Committees discretion be amended salary increases for the general employee population: or allowed to subsist on their original terms.
In the event of any overall spend on annual bonus: demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the participation levels in the annual bonus and any long-term Committees opinion, may affect the Companys current or future incentive plans: share price, awards may, at the Committees discretion, vest and company-wide benefits including pension : and be released on the same basis as for a takeover any other relevant factors as determined by the Committee The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with an Executive Directors cessation of office In order to take into account the views of the general employee or employment where the payments are made in good faith in population when formulating Executive Director pay Policy, the discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages Committee may review information provided by the HR function and for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or feedback from employee satisfaction surveys.
settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Any such STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for SHAREHOLDER VIEWS outplacement assistance and or the Executive Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with their cessation of The Company is committed to ongoing engagement and seeks major office or employment Shareholder views in advance of proposing significant changes to its remuneration policies.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment.
The notice period for the Chairman is three months, and one month for the other NonExecutive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment continue until the date stated in their appointment letter unless they are terminated for cause, or on the notice period stated, or if they are not re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are kept for inspection by Shareholders at the Companys registered office.
96 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE ILLUSTRATIVE PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS This section illustrates the levels of remuneration that may be received by the current Executive Directors.
Their remuneration is set in accordance with the Policy.
The charts below show three scenarios: a fixed pay, comprising of base salary, benefits and pension, b mid and c maximum of overall potential: CEO Total remuneration 000 CFO Total remuneration 000 4,000 2,000 3,500 1,780 3,163 3,000 1,514 1,500 35% 2,500 1,276 34% 2,301 1,190 2,000 54% 1,000 30% 28% 41% 1,500 35% 702 34% 30% 28% 1,000 1,009 520 500 500 100% 59% 46% 100% 44% 32% 40% 30% 100% 0 0 a Fixed b Mid c Maximum a Fixed b Mid c Maximum PF PF PF MH BS MH BS MH BS Total fixed Annual bonus PSP Total fixed Annual bonus PSP PF Peter Fankhauser MH Michael Healy: BS Bill Scott In developing the scenarios, the following annualised assumptions have been made: a Fixed Based on fixed pay being received only, for example, base salary, benefits andpension.
This is calculated for Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy as follows: Base salary at the date of this report Benefits are based on the amount shown in the single figure table inthisyears Annual Report on remuneration Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against base salary as at the date of this report The calculation basis for Bill Scott is as follows: Base salary at 1 January 2018 Benefits are based on an estimated amount based on the contractual arrangements Pension measured by applying cash in lieu rate against base salary at 1 January 2018 Base salary 000s Benefits 000s Pension 000s Total fixed 000s CEO 718 76 215 1,009 CFO Michael Healy 541 26 135 702 CFO Bill Scott 420 16 84 520 b Mid If performance is in line with the Companys expectations: Annual bonus pays out at 60% of maximum for on-target performance, based on a maximum annual eligibility of 150% of salary For Peter Fankhauser and Bill Scott only: A PSP award with a face value of 150% of base salary pays out 60% of maximum c Maximum If performance is in line with the maximum eligibility levels: Full pay-out of annual bonus i. e. 150% of salary with stretching performance achieved For Peter Fankhauser and Bill Scott only: A PSP award with a face value of 150% of base salary pays out at 100% of maximum in line with stretching performance Note: As required by the regulations, PSP awards and amounts included within the bonus which have been deferred into shares are set out at face value, with no share price growth assumptions.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee presents its Annual Report on Directors Remuneration, which is set out within this section.
Decisions taken on remuneration during the year are in line with our Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved at our Annual General Meeting in February 2017.
External advisers CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under its Terms of Reference, the Committee obtains the advice of external independent remuneration consultants and is responsible The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending for their selection and appointment.
The Committee also considers to the Board the Policy for Executive Directors and for setting the the independence and effectiveness of the Adviser, and it was remuneration packages for each Executive Director.
decided that after a five-year period of working with Deloitte as The Committee also has input into the remuneration arrangements adviser to the Remuneration Committee, it would be appropriate and of the Executive Committee in conjunction with the CEO, and has good governance to put the role out to tender.
Following a formal oversight of the Policy and remuneration packages for other senior tender process involving five firms which included Deloitte, following leaders with particular focus on the variable pay elements, ensuring references being undertaken, the Committee was delighted to incentives are consistently applied beyond the CEO and CFO to appoint Mercer as its independent remuneration adviser.
ensure the execution of the strategy throughout the organisation.
Mercer commenced work with the Committee in August 2017 and The aim of the Committee is to align Remuneration Policy to fees for the two-month period were 43,050 for advice in relation the overall strategy of the Thomas Cook Group, and to ensure to executive remuneration.
Deloittes fees for the preceding remuneration reflects our Shareholders and customers interests, part of the year were 79,500.
Both fees covered attendance at governed by our Policy and its philosophy and principles.
Committee meetings, general advice and updates on remuneration developments with the total fees paid to advisers equating to During the year, the Committee had six scheduled meetings.
end of each financial year at the Committees meeting in September a review is undertaken of activities against its Terms of Reference Deloitte also provided advice in relation to miscellaneous consulting available on the Thomas Cook Group plc website to ensure the services as well as international mobility, tax, corporate finance and Committee is properly fulfilling its duties and responsibilities.
Mercer provided advice in relation to pensions and insured benefits.
Attendees The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings, as it deems Mercer and Deloitte are both members of the Remuneration beneficial, to assist it in reviewing matters for consideration.
Consultants Group RCG and comply with its Code of Conduct.
Individuals who have provided support and advice to the Committee The Committee is satisfied that their advice was and continues to during the year include the Board members, Alice Marsden Group be objective and independent.
General Counsel and Company Secretary, Rachael Gillett Group The following pages set out the remuneration of the Executive & UK HR Director, Caroline Forsyth Group Head of Reward, Emily Directors during FY17, and the intended approach for FY18.
Hallett Executive Remuneration Manager and a representative from each of the Committees independent external advisers, being Mitul Shah Partner, Deloitte, and Pete Smith Partner, Mercer.
Warren Tucker, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is also a member of the Audit Committee and, as such, ensures there is knowledge and coordination in respect of risk and accounting issues.
No Director or senior executive is present at the section of the meeting when their own remuneration arrangements are being discussed.
98 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION AUDITED The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 30 September 2016 and 2017: 3 4 Salary fees Benefits Group Bonus Plan PSP Pension Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 FY17 FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 FY16 Executive Directors Peter Fankhauser 711 697 76 67 837 236 213 209 1,837 1,209 Michael Healy 536 525 26 25 694 194 134 131 1,390 876 Non-Executive Directors Frank Meysman 275 275 30 41 305 316 Dawn Airey 70 70 3 2 73 72 Annet Aris 60 60 7 6 67 66 1 Emre Berkin 80 70 7 6 87 76 2 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson 11 1 12 Lesley Knox 60 35 1 1 61 36 2 Jrgen Schreiber 11 2 13 Warren Tucker 80 80 3 8 83 88 Martine Verluyten 80 80 9 4 89 84 Notes: 1 The Committee Chair fees were aligned from 1 October 2016, resulting in an increase to the fees paid to Emre Berkin.
2 Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and Jrgen Schreiber were appointed to the Board on 26 July 2017.
3 Executive benefits paid includes car allowance, healthcare, life assurance, tax advice for Peter Fankhauser only, and expenses which are chargeable to income tax.
Non-executive benefits relates only to travel and accommodation expenses which are chargeable to UK income tax or would be if the individual were resident in the UK.
4 One-third of the bonus will be deferred into an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES RELATING TOTHESINGLE FIGURE TABLE AUDITED Further information in respect of the base salary, pension, annual bonus and PSP amounts is shown in this section: Salary FY17 Group Bonus Plan, the Plan audited The table below shows the base salaries of Peter Fankhauser and The maximum Plan opportunity for both Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy at the end of FY17 and at the end of the previous Michael Healy was 150 per cent of base salary, one third of which is financial year.
Salary increases were effective 1 April 2017. subject to deferral into shares to be held for two years, subject to malus clawback before the vesting date, as described on page 94.
Salary at Salary at Percentage 30 September 2017 30 September 2016 increase As described in the Chairmans statement on page 87, bonus outcomes reflect the progress made against a number of the Peter Fankhauser 717,800 703,800 2.0% Groups KPIs and progress in the delivery of the strategic and ongoing transformation of the business.
Therefore there is an Michael Healy 541,200 530,600 2.0% element of payout against each of the core bonus measures and role-specific objectives, as set out in the table on the following page.
The salary increases awarded to the Executive Directors were in line with the overall salary increase budget expressed as a percentage For the CEO, the role-specific objectives were partly achieved, 13 per across the Group during the 2017 annual salary review and were cent out of 15 per cent of the maximum bonus opportunity and is in line with the level of increase awarded to the general employee described below.
population where individual performance was effective.
The role-specific leadership objective is measured by the overall Pensions audited engagement of colleagues across the Group, underpinned by Currently, both Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy receive a rigorous performance management and customer focus of the taxable cash allowance of an amount equivalent to 30 per cent leadership team.
As described in the KPIs section on page 32 and in and 25 per cent of base salary respectively.
These allowances are our people report on page 39, the very high core-index score of 74 broadly in line with the equivalent maximum net contribution for per cent was maintained in 2017, resulting in an achievement of 3 per UK-based employees who are eligible to receive up to 15 per cent of cent out of the 5 per cent for this element of the Plan.
reference salary from the Company in pension contributions, which are paid as gross employer contributions into the Companys defined contribution pension plan.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED The second role-specific objective, equating to 10 per cent of the For the CFO, achievement against the role-specific objectives was maximum bonus opportunity was achieved through the partnership in respect of the implementation of a Board-approved financial plan entered into with Expedia.
This partnership gives our customers that delivered tangible steps towards improving the Groups financial a much bigger choice of hotels in City and Domestic and delivers position.
In December 2016, the Company took advantage of positive on the Complementary part of our Group-wide strategy that was market sentiment to issue a new 750 million bond due in 2022, with set out last year.
It is a catalyst for restructuring the business a coupon of 6.25 per cent.
The proceeds from this bond were used to and simplifying systems and processes, so that the focus on core repay two more expensive bonds due in 2017 and 2020.
As a result, package holidays can be achieved.
By using Expedias superior this refinancing exercise improved the Groups financial position by technology, leveraging their global reach, volume and expertise, both lowering the cost of financing and by extending the Groups the Group will be able to significantly reduce costs and complexity debt maturity profile.
Accordingly, the Committee has concluded within the business for the long-term.
This objective was therefore that this refinancing fully satisfies the achievement of this element fully achieved.
50per cent of the CFOs bonus criteria for FY17.
FY17 Group Bonus Plan, the Plan audited Continued CEO Peter Fankhauser Resulting level of award FY17 Threshold Target Stretch Performance of max % Measures Weighting 20% 60% 100% achieved opportunity 2 Group underlying EBIT 1 constant currency 35% 290m 330m 350m 312m 14.7% Core 3 Group Free Cash Flow 35% 125m 200m 244m 305m 35% 4 Net Promoter Score 15% 42.25 43.25 44.25 45.18 15% Leadership: Core-Index Stay above Employee Satisfaction Score external top 30 Maintain Increase by 1% pt Thomas Cook Group 5% benchmark of 70% at 74% to 75% 74% 3% Role-specific New substantial Delivery of partnership change in the withExpedia: Outcome 100% Strategic Progress in New Operating New Operating Model NewOperating Model 10% 43m 60m Model direction benefits delivered: 67m 10% Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 77.7% CFO Michael Healy Resulting level of award FY17 Threshold Target Stretch Performance of max % Measures Weighting 20% 60% 100% achieved opportunity Group underlying EBIT 2 1 constant currency 25% 290m 330m 350m 312m 10.5% Core 3 Group Free Cash Flow 25% 125m 200m 244m 305m 25% Either repaying the 200m Bond due in In December 2016, the Company issued June 2017, while ensuring adequate liquidity a new 750m bond due in 2022, with a Implement a Boardheadroom throughout the following winter: or coupon of 6.25%.
The proceeds were used approved financial Issuing a new Bond with a coupon rate of no to repay two more expensive bonds due in Role-specific Plan that delivers more than 7% to refinance and extend the 2017 and 2020 and, as a result, improved the tangible steps towards Groups maturing liabilities at a lower cost: or Groups financial position by both lowering improving the Groups Agreeing a revised bank facility, consistent the cost of financing and by extending the financial position 50% with the Groups revised financial Plan.
50% Total level of award as a % of maximum opportunity: 85.5% 1 As disclosed in prior years, bonus targets in relation to Group underlying EBIT are set on a fixed currency basis at the beginning of the performance period, therefore the achievement used for bonus purposes is different from the achievement stated earlier in the report 2 Group underlying EBIT is defined as Earnings before interest and tax excluding exceptional items measured on a constant currency basis.
3 Group Free Cash Flow is defined as Group Cash Flow for the financial year before payments receipts in respect of tax and payments receipts associated with exceptional items, where exceptional items include restructuring costs and asset disposals.
4 Net Promoter Score NPS : NPS is the main customer key performance indicator of the Group.
It shows the degree of customer loyalty and recommendations by reference to responses from our customer feedback survey when asked, How likely would you recommend Thomas Cook to your friends & family?.
It is calculated by taking the percentage of promoters and deducting the percentage of detractors.
Note: In order for there to be any payment under the Plan, the two financial hurdles of Group underlying EBIT and Group Free Cash Flow must be achieved.
100 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Long-Term Incentives The awards made in FY15, vesting in FY18 are subject to three-year performance ending in FY17 and it is expected that these will not vest due to the non-achievement of targets under the Plan.
This award is expected to lapse in March 2018, the third anniversary from the date of award.
Threshold level of Maximum level of Level of Performance conditions for FY15 PSP awards Weighting vesting 30% vesting 100% Outcome vesting Share price and dividend Share price is measured as the average share price and dividends over the fixedperiodof 30 trading days from the release of the preliminary Estimated FY17results.
45% 225p 300p 225p 0% FY17 Group underlying EBIT Group underlying EBIT excludes exceptional items.
30% 453m 548m 330m 0% FY17 Group cash conversion Cash conversion is defined as cash flow post-exceptional items, before capital expenditure EBITDA.
25% 70% 80% 64% 0% 0% This will result in the number of shares vesting for each Executive Director as set out below: Number of shares under Number of shares Share price on date of Value of shares that Director Date of grant Earliest vesting date award vesting vesting vested Peter Fankhauser 12 03 2015 12 03 2018 720,752 0 n a 0 Michael Healy 12 03 2015 12 03 2018 532,729 0 n a 0 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited PSP awards were made to Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy in FY17 equating to a face value of 165 per cent and 150 per cent of salary respectively, as reported previously in the FY16 report.
Details of the performance conditions can be found on page 107, with details of the individual awards shown below: End of Number of Share price Number of shares Date of performance shares Face value Face value used to received if threshold 1 2 3 Director Type of award Plan award period awarded of award of award calculate award performance achieved Peter Fankhauser Conditional Share Award PSP 01 12 2016 30 09 2019 1,388,248 165% 1,161,269 0.8365 347,062 Michael Healy Conditional Share Award PSP 01 12 2016 30 09 2019 951,464 150% 795,900 0.8365 237,866 Notes: 1 Expressed as a % of base salary at the time of award.
2 The share price used to calculate the award was 83.65, pence being the average closing share price of the three days prior to grant.
3 Threshold performance is equal to 25% of maximum award.
Payments to past Directors Current Executive Directors service contracts There were no payments made to past Directors during the year.
The dates of the service contracts for Peter Fankhauser and Michael Healy are 23 February 2015 and 8 May 2012 respectively.
Loss of office payments Executive Directors have rolling service contracts terminable There were no loss of office payments made to past Directors during in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
contracts are available on request for inspection at the Companys registered office.
External appointments Michael Healy tendered his resignation and notification of retirement Executive Directors currently do not hold any external appointments.
on 25 September 2017 and is currently working his six months notice period, with his employment ending on 31 March 2018.
Details of the remuneration arrangements associated with his departure are shown on page 104.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED STATUTORY GRAPH The graph below shows the TSR for holders of Thomas Cook Group plc Ordinary Shares for the nine-year period since 30 September 2008, measured against the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
These indices were chosen as relevant comparators, as the Company is a member of both indices, with one reflecting a broad equity index and the other being specific to the travel sector.
The calculation of TSR is in accordance with the relevant remuneration regulations and is broadly the change in market price together with reinvestment of dividend income.
This graph shows the value of 100 invested in Thomas Cook Group plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index.
The intermediate points are the values atthe Companys financial year ends.
Total Shareholder Return Thomas Cook FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Index 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 30 Sept 08 30 Sept 09 30 Sept 10 30 Sept 11 30 Sept 12 30 Sept 13 30 Sept 14 30 Sept 15 30 Sept 16 30 Sept 17 The table below shows the pattern of remuneration of the CEO during this period.
CEO FY09 FY10 FY11 FY 12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 1 Peter Fankhauser n a n a n a n a n a n a 4.296m 1.209m 1.837m 2 Harriet Green n a n a n a 717k 2.855m 1.046m 248k n a n a CEO single figure 3 Sam Weihagen n a n a 153k 1.171m n a n a n a n a n a ofremuneration Manny Fontenla 4 5 Novoa 2.996m 2.322m 1.008m n a n a n a n a n a n a Peter Fankhauser n a n a n a n a n a n a 69% 22% 78% Group Bonus Plan Harriet Green n a n a n a n a 100% 0% 0% n a n a payout as% Sam Weihagen n a n a 0% 23% n a n a n a n a n a maximum opportunity Manny FontenlaNovoa 96% 80% 0% n a n a n a n a n a n a 6 Peter Fankhauser n a n a n a n a n a n a 70% 0% 0% 2 Harriet Green n a n a n a n a n a See below n a n a PSP vesting as % of maximum Sam Weihagen n a n a 0% 0% n a n a n a n a n a opportunity Manny Fontenla Novoa 68% 0% 0% n a n a n a n a n a n a The table above shows the prescribed remuneration data as shown in the left-hand side column for the Director s undertaking the role of CEO during each of the last nine financial years.
Notes: 1 Peter Fankhauser was appointed CEO on 26 November 2014, and has been employed in the Group since 1 May 2001.
2 Harriet Green stepped down as CEO on 26 November 2014 and remained a Director until 31 December 2014.
In addition to the single figure shown, a proportion of Harriet Greens 2012 PSP award vested following her departure with 4,115,721 shares vesting under this award.
3 Sam Weihagen was appointed CEO on 3 August 2011 and remained in post until the appointment of Harriet Green on 30 July 2012.
4 Manny Fontenla-Novoa stepped down as CEO on 2 August 2011.
5 The single figure for FY11 for Manny Fontenla-Novoa excludes his termination payment, which was a total of 1.2m in respect of contractual entitlements to base salary, pension allowance and benefits in lieu of notice.
6 Relates to the June 2012 PSP and COIP awards and the September 2012 PSP award representing the full value received.
102 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPONENTS OFTHE CEO REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR The table below sets out the percentage change in the remuneration of the CEO.
It also sets out the average percentage change in the 2018 salary reviews remuneration of other employees in the Group.
A peer group of Salary reviews for the Group are in April each year.
The Committee UK-based employees has been selected.
We have selected this peer will undertake the annual salary review for the CEO at this time, group as the CEO is UK-based and therefore pay movement in this with no increase in April 2018 for the new CFO due to the timescales peer group is subject to similar external market conditions.
We have associated with the appointment.
excluded employees subject to long-term collective agreements for FY18 Group Bonus Plan the same reason, in order to ensure that the comparison is on a like-for-like basis.
FY18 maximum opportunity for Executive Directors annual bonus will remain at 150 per cent of base salary.
Any payments under the FY18 % change in remuneration from FY16 to FY17 Plan will be subject to financial hurdles for the Group underlying % change in % change in % change in 1 2 EBIT and Group Unlevered Free Cash Flow measures being met.
base salary benefits annual bonus Core measures focus on our customer, profit and cash measures to drive business performance and growth, with role-specific CEO 2.00% 13.5% 248% objectives set to support the delivery of our Customer at our Heart UK-based employees 2.71% 2.16% 104% strategy through the continued growth of our own-brand hotel Notes: offering, delivering on the new partnerships entered into where we 1 The main benefits provided to UK-based employees are private health insurance, life assurance, can leverage our brand to tap into new opportunities for growth.
travel concessions and car allowances.
The increase in benefits for the CEO is a result of increased premiums on private health insurance, life assurance and the continuation of tax advice relating to Peters former expatriate arrangement.
For FY18, Group Unlevered Free Cash Flow is defined as cash flow 2 In order to provide the most direct comparison possible, the above calculation includes all UKbefore payments receipts in respect of interest and any cash based employees participating in the Thomas Cook Bonus Plan which have a significant Group amounts associated with acquisitions disposals, payment of element to the Plans.
Bonus payouts in FY16 were 22% for the CEO and on average 36% for those in the Group Bonus Plan.
In FY17, achievement for the CEO was 78% and for those who are UKdividends or the refinancing of the Groups bank facilities and bonds.
based and in the Thomas Cook Bonus Plan the average payout level will be 73%.
The difference is caused by the achievement of the UK and Airline element of the Plans being lower than the The structure of the FY18 Plan for the Executive Directors is set Group achievement, out below: Weighting% RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY overall CEO CFO Michael Healy CFO Bill Scott opportunity The table below displays the relative expenditure of the Company on all employees pay and Shareholder distributions as required by Group Group Group the Regulations.
UnderlyingEBIT UnderlyingEBIT UnderlyingEBIT 35% 2016 2017 Year-on-year Group Unlevered Group Unlevered Group Unlevered 1 m m % change Free CashFlow Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow 35% Net Promoter Net Promoter Net Promoter Overall expenditure on Group Score NPS Score NPS Score NPS 15% 2 employee pay 863 943 8.5% 3 4 Delivery of Refinancing and Delivery of Tour Group underlying EBIT 302 330 8.5% Strategic Project CFO transition Operator Finance Shareholders distributions 0 8100% Benefits Organisation 10% 15% 1 Some of the year-on-year increase is attributed to a benefit from exchange rates.
The figures Leadership: Leadership: shown in the table are extracted from the Groups financial statements Succession & Gender Diversity 2 The amounts for Group employees and Directors pay include employer social security payments Engagement &Engagement 5% 3 Group underlying EBIT is shown above as this continues to be a key performance measure 4 Restated FY16 number Bonus targets are set on a constant currency basis at the start of the performance period.
Details of the targets will be disclosed at the end of the performance period, in the FY18 Directors Remuneration Report.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Performance Share Plan PSP CFO TRANSITION ARRANGEMENTS The Committee will grant the next award under the PSP following Michael Healy stands down from the Board and his role as CFO the announcement of our FY17 results in accordance with the with effect from 31 December 2017.
He remains available to Peter current Policy.
Peter Fankhauser and Bill Scott will each be made Fankhauser, Bill Scott and the Board to assist with the transition awards equating to a face value of 150 per cent of salary.
There will and will leave employment with Thomas Cook on 31 March 2018. be no award made to Michael Healy.
Michael will be retiring from the Company and will be treated as a good leaver in respect of his outstanding awards.
The leaving In line with the Remuneration Policy and our previous two PSP arrangements set out below are in accordance with the Policy grants, the awards will vest to the extent stretching EPS and approved by Shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting: Relative TSR targets weighted equally are achieved over a threeyear performance period.
Following the end of the vesting period, There are no payments for loss of office awards will be subject to a two-year holding period.
Salary and benefits will be paid in full on a monthly basis during the notice period Targets under the award are set out below: The FY17 bonus is disclosed on page 100.
One third of this bonus will be deferred for a period of two years Total Shareholder Return TSR Level of vesting Performance The FY18 bonus will be determined by the Committee in November Required The Indexed TSR measures the 2018 following the end of the financial year, and will be prorated to Threshold Equal to the TSR of the Company relative to 25% index reflect the period employed in the year.
One third of the FY18 bonus the FTSE 250 excluding financial will also be subject to deferral for a period of two years however Target 8% above services and commodities over the 60% the index per will be deferred as cash as Michael will not be an employee of the full three-year performance period annum Group at the time of grant ending 30 September 2020.
Maximum 12% above There will be no FY18 PSP award made 100% the index per All outstanding PSP awards will vest at the normal vesting date i. e. annum on the three-year anniversary from grant and will be prorated to reflect the period employed Outstanding deferred bonus awards will vest in full at the normal Basic Earnings Per Share EPS Level of vesting Performance vesting dates, subject to there being no clawback events occurring Required during the vesting period Basic EPS is calculated by dividing Threshold 10p Malus and clawback provisions remain in force throughout the profit or loss attributable 25% to Ordinary Shareholders of After ceasing employment with Thomas Cook, Michael will continue his the Company by the weighted Non-Executive Director roles in Thomas Cook China and Thomas Cook average number of Ordinary Money.
The single consolidated fee for these Board roles will be 80,000 Shares outstanding during the per annum in total, with any additional consultancy fee for advisery Maximum 18p FY20 in respect of the final year work to the Thomas Cook Group plc paid at a rate of 5,000 per day.
It is 100% of the performance period ending expected that the latter fees will not exceed 60,000 per annum.
Bill Scott will be appointed as an Executive Director and CFO with effect from 1 January 2018.
His remuneration for FY18 for the period The EPS targets, set on a constant currency basis for the FY18 in which he is Executive Director will be reported in the FY18 PSP award have been set by the Committee taking into account Directors Remuneration Report.
The key terms were disclosed via multiple considerations, including the Groups overall business RNS on 28 September 2017 following the Boards decision to appoint strategy, expectations for future years as incorporated into our Bill, and are also summarised below: long-term Business Plan, growth expectations within our sector, and Annual base salary: 420,000: next salary review date April 2019 historical performance.
Pension: 15 per cent contribution into the Thomas Cook defined The EPS vesting schedule is non-linear with an intermediate point.
contribution pension scheme, or if taken as cash, a taxable The Committee may take into account the impact of any major allowance of 20 per cent of salary restructuring plans not envisaged when setting the target when Car allowance: 12,000 per annum assessing performance against the EPS target, to ensure the Annual bonus: 150 per cent of base salary of which one third is PSP rewards actions taken by management which are in the best subject todeferral for a period of two years long-term interests of Shareholders.
Details of the intermediate PSP award: 150 per cent of base salary point will be disclosed retrospectively following the end of the Shareholding requirement of 200 per cent of base salary performance period.
Benefits in line with Policy EPS targets ranges for both outstanding awards are shown on In addition to existing PSP awards granted within the Policy, Bill Scott also has an existing share award granted to him in December 2016 page107.
under the Restricted Share Plan RSP.
The Committee has determined, in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy, that this award will be allowed to continue under the original terms of the Plan.
104 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Directors and former Directors share interests audited The Chairman is paid a fee of 275,000 per annum.
The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors inthe shares of the Company: The Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual basic fee, plus Beneficial holdings additional fees for the chairing of Board Committees.
Number of shares as at 30 September 2017 Non-Executive Director fees Peter Fankhauser 2,229,376 Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain at an appropriate level relative to the market, and that they Michael Healy 1,212,890 reflect the skills, expertise and the contribution of the Directors.
Frank Meysman 547,000 It was determined in September 2017 that the fees would remain at Dawn Airey 42,000 their current levels.
Annet Aris The annual rates of Non-Executive Directors fees for FY17 are shown Emre Berkin in the table below: Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson Annual fees Lesley Knox 46,100 Position 000 Jrgen Schreiber Warren Tucker 30,800 Non-Executive Director 60 Martine Verluyten 165,000 Additional fee for the Chair of the Audit Committee 20 Additional fee for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20 From 30 September 2017 to 21 November 2017 there were no changes Additional fee for the Chair of the Health, Safety & to any of the Directors beneficial interests in shares.
Environmental Committee 20 Additional fee for the Senior Independent Director 10 Each of the Non-Executive Directors has been appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment, which is available on request for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The appointments under these letters continue until the expiry dates set out below unless terminated for cause or on the period of notice stated below: Date of latest Director letter of appointment Expiry date Notice period Frank Meysman 27 March 2013 N A 3 months Dawn Airey 21 July 2016 11 April 2019 1 month Annet Aris 16 March 2017 30 April 2020 1 month Emre Berkin 13 October 2015 30 October 2018 1 month Paul EdgecliffeJohnson 26 July 2017 25 July 2020 1 month Lesley Knox 23 February 2016 28 February 2019 1 month Jrgen Schreiber 26 July 2017 25 July 2020 1 month Warren Tucker 22 September 2016 3 October 2019 1 month Martine Verluyten 16 March 2017 6 May 2020 1 month THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED In line with the Policy, the value of the Directors holding has SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT AUDITED been calculated by taking the greater of: a the initial financial Under our Shareholding Requirement Policy, Executive Directors are commitment: and b the market value at 30 September 2017. required to build up within five years of appointment to the Board, and maintain a minimum shareholding of 200 per cent of base At 30 September 2017, the shareholding of Peter Fankhauser salary, increased from 100 per cent earlier during the year.
Until the and Michael Healy were 449 per cent and 300 per cent of salary shareholding requirement is met, vested shares cannot be sold, respectively, as shown below: other than to pay tax in respect of the relevant award.
Executive Director shareholding vs policy requirement To ensure alignment with Shareholders and to encourage a share ownership culture across the senior team, members of the Executive Committee are required to build up within five years of CEO 449% becoming an Executive Committee member, and maintain 50 per cent of base salary in the Companys shares.
106 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE DETAILS OF SHARE PLANS Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, one third of any bonus payment made to Executive Directors under the Group Bonus Plan is deferred into shares for a period of two years on a compulsory basis.
The DBP awards shown in the previous table represent one third of the FY15 bonus and FY16 bonus respectively.
DBP awards are made at the earliest opportunity following bonus payment date, and are released on the second anniversary of the actual bonus payment date.
Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, participants are awarded a conditional award of shares in Thomas Cook Group plc.
Shares under the awards will vest to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions measured over three years being met.
Performance conditions for awards up to and including March 2015, were based on absolute share price, Group underlying EBIT and Group Cash Conversion.
For subsequent awards, granted from December 2015 onwards, the performance conditions are Relative TSR and Basic EPS.
Performance conditions for the outstanding awards are shown on the following page.
Performance Conditions for PSP Awards audited FY14 PSP awards There were no awards made to Executive Directors during FY14.
FY15 PSP awards The performance measures, targets and performance achieved under the FY15 PSP awards which lapsed during the year are set out on page101.
FY16 PSP awards The FY16 PSP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to equally weighted Basic EPS and Relative TSR performance measures as set out in the table below: Total Shareholder Return TSR Level of vesting Performance Basic Earnings Per Share EPS Level of vesting Performance Required Required The Indexed TSR measures the Basic EPS is calculated by dividing TSR of the Company relative to the profit or loss attributable Threshold Equal to the index Threshold 9.3p the FTSE 250 excluding financial to Ordinary Shareholders of the 30% 30% services and commodities over Company by the weighted average the full three-year performance Target 60% 8% above the number of Ordinary Shares period ending 30 September index per annum outstanding during the FY18 in Maximum 16.5p 2018. respect of the final year of the 100% Maximum 12% above the performance period, ending 30 100% index per annum September 2018.
FY17 PSP awards The FY17 PSP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to equally weighted Basic EPS and Relative TSR performance measures as set out in the table below: Total Shareholder Return TSR Level of vesting Performance Basic Earnings Per Share EPS Level of vesting Performance Required Required The Indexed TSR measures the Basic EPS is calculated by dividing TSR of the Company relative to the profit or loss attributable Threshold Equal to the index Threshold 11.2p the FTSE 250 excluding financial to Ordinary Shareholders of the 25% 25% services and commodities over Company by the weighted average the full three-year performance number of Ordinary Shares Target 8% above the period ending 30 September outstanding during the FY19 in 60% index per annum Maximum 18.2p 2019. respect of the final year of the 100% Maximum 12% above the performance period, ending 100% index per annum 30 September 2019.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The table below sets out the results of the votes on the Directors Remuneration Policy and Report at the 2017 Annual General Meeting: Votes for number of Proportion of total Votes against Proportion of total Total number of Total number of shares votes cast number of shares votes cast votes cast votes withheld Annual Remuneration Report 2017 Annual General Meeting 995,505,485 77.49 289,162,803 22.51 1,284,668,288 201,701 Remuneration Policy 2017 Annual General Meeting 994,036,827 78.32 275,169,417 21.68 1,269,206,244 15,663,744 The Board acknowledges the views of Shareholders who voted against the above resolutions at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Boards aim is to consult regularly with major Shareholders and achieve the maximum possible support for all proposals.
On this basis, the Board consulted with a number of key Shareholders and proxy advisory bodies at the start of the 2017 financial year, and again in the weeks leading up to the Annual General Meeting.
This showed that there was misalignment with a small number of institutional Shareholders and was a serious concern to the Board.
Therefore, we listened to the feedback which are set out below, and took the following actions: Policy Review and SSIP Remuneration Policy Resolution A number of Shareholders raised concerns in relation to the SSIP.
From the feedback, it was clear that concern centred on the level of disclosure in respect of potential strategic objectives and the maximum potential award level.
It also became clear that views were split with no clear consensus on the issue amongst Shareholders.
The SSIP was put in place to cater for exceptional circumstances that would warrant an alternative long term incentive plan.
The Committee did not make use of the SSIP in FY17 and has no need to in FY18.
In response to Shareholder concerns following the AGM the Board made the following commitments: The Committee would use the SSIP following consultation and with the support of our major Shareholders and: The maximum opportunity under the SSIP, if it were used, would be capped so that it would not exceed that of the PSP i. e. 200% of salary A revised Policy has not been presented back to Shareholders for approval.
However, the current approved Policy has been updated to reflect the above commitments.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Target Disclosure Remuneration Report Resolution Some Shareholders wanted to see EPS targets under the PSP disclosed prospectively.
The need to provide Shareholders with assurance that the PSP is based on stretching targets that drive strong performance and have a direct positive impact on Company performance, and thus an increase in Shareholder value, is clear.
Up to and including the FY17 award granted in December 2016, EPS targets had been explicitly and directly linked to the business plan.
This made them price sensitive.
However, following Shareholder feedback, as described earlier in this report the Committee has developed a new methodology for setting targets that is based on a number of other factors and does not directly link to the business plan.
This new methodology has enabled the prospective disclosure of EPS target ranges for the FY18 PSP grant in the FY17 Directors Remuneration Report.
There are also two outstanding awards where EPS targets have not been previously disclosed.
In the commitment made to Shareholders to provide greater transparency, the FY17 Directors Remuneration Report has also disclosed target ranges for these two awards.
Finally, the maximum size of awards under the PSP is 200% of salary but the normal award to Executive Directors is 150% of salary.
In December 2016, Peter Fankhauser, CEO was granted an award of 165% of salary under this provision to incentivise his continued leadership, drive and commitment he demonstrates and the profitable growth he is expected to deliver over the long-term.
Some Shareholders felt there was not a strong enough rationale to support this.
For FY18, the award for Peter Fankhauser will be set at the normal award level of 150% of base salary.
I would like to take this final opportunity to assure you, our Shareholders, that we take seriously your views and act upon them, which I hope you can see we have demonstrated this year.
This Annual Report on remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: WARREN TUCKER CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 21 November 2017 108 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
