GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDERS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017, our first report under the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which was approved at our Annual General Meeting on 9 February 2017.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN FY17 This has been a year of real progress for Thomas Cook.
In a very competitive environment, Managements focus on executing our strategy for profitable growth has delivered a good financial CHAIRMAN performance for 2017 while at the same time transforming the Warren Tucker Companys opportunities for growth over the longer-term.
OTHER MEMBERS Strong customer demand for our improved holiday offering across Dawn Airey, Annet Aris, Emre Berkin until 1 October 2017, Paul all source markets delivered a Group underlying EBIT of 330 million.
Edgecliffe-Johnson from 21 September 2017 and Lesley Knox.
This achievement is a strong sign of the Companys resilience as a result of our ongoing transformation.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Nowhere is this transformation more clear than in our customers All members of the Committee are Independent experience of Thomas Cook holidays.
The Net Promoter Score, NPS .
the key metric by which we measure customer satisfaction increased a further 4 points in 2017.
This reflects the very rigorous DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES way our people now manage the quality and service at every stage See pages 63 and 64. of the holiday life-cycle.
But it is also linked to a number of bold moves where the Company has innovated to modernise its offering MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: and drive reappraisal of the package holiday such as the roll out Frank Meysman Chairman, Peter Fankhauser CEO, Michael of the 24-Hour Hotel Satisfaction Promise across 2,000 hotels a Healy CFO, Martine Verluyten Independent Non-Executive strong sign of the Groups commitment to putting customers at the Director, Jrgen Schreiber Independent Non-Executive Director, heart of the business.
AliceMarsden Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, MitulShah Deloitte LLP, Deloitte until May 2017, Pete Smith 2017 also saw the announcement of a number of important Mercer Ltd, Mercer from September 2017 and members of the developments that will transform the size and shape of the business HRLeadership Team as required, being Rachael Gillett Group & for the future.
These include the strategic alliance with Expedia UKHR Director, Caroline Forsyth Group Head of Reward and and improving the Groups financial position by both lowering EmilyHallett Executive Remuneration Manager.
the cost of financing and by extending the Groups debt maturity profile.
Taken together, the business has a strong platform on All attendees are by invitation only.
which to implement our clear strategy to deliver profitable growth and returns.
The long-term sustainability of the business is based on the execution of a very clear strategy to transform Thomas Cook into a more streamlined business focused on a number of key areas where it can set itself apart from the competition.
Our Policy directly links Executive Directors pay to the achievement of stretching performance targets which underpin that strategy.
The Committee ensures that the performance measures selected in the incentive Plans reflect the Key Performance Indicators KPIs of the business and therefore align the interests of the Executive Directors to those This report is set out in the following key sections: of your own.
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF THE See pages 84 to88.
POLICY ANNUAL REPORT ON See pages 98 to108.
REMUNERATION 84 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE PAY PHILOSOPHY As a Committee, we remain very mindful of the sensitivities of Stretching targets are set to incentivise and reward profitable executive pay felt by companies, employees, Shareholders and our growth, disciplined cash management, unrivalled customer service customers.
Our approach is to ensure that our Policy reflects our and long-term Shareholder value creation.
The diagram below shows strategy, with outcomes that are fair and have a strong link to the alignment between our strategy as set out on pages 4 to 5 and performance, and this remains our priority as a Committee.
As set out in the Policy, fixed pay is set at median levels against the market, and the provision of benefits set by the local market in which the Executive Directors operates.
Variable remuneration is a combination of both short and long-term incentives which are strongly linked to the rigorous execution ofthe strategy.
LINKING PAY WITH PERFORMANCE HOW EACH KPI IS REFLECTED IN INCENTIVES OUR VISION KPIS WE USE TO AND STRATEGY MEASURE PERFORMANCE Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan PSP 1 Underlying EBIT Core Measure Our vision is to be the most Earnings Per Share EPS Core Measure lovedholiday company.
Interests are Customerat our Heart sits further aligned firmlyat the centre of our with Shareholders Core Measure visionand our strategy for Net Debt through Total Cash Flow sustainable growth Shareholder Return TSR as a Core Our key performance Measure indicators, measure the Net Promoter Score NPS Core Measure successof our strategy See more on page 32 Role-specific measure Employee Satisfaction Engagement 1 Any reference to underlying EBIT in the Directors Remuneration Report is stated in line with the definition explained in Appendix 1 in the Financial Review Use of Alternative Performance Measures on page 52.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED THE 2017 POLICY Change made How we have implemented this change Last year, the Committee introduced an updated Policy which came Shareholding The CEO and CFO have holdings of 449% and into effect in February 2017 and included a number of best practice requirement for 300% respectively.
Whilst we were pleased that the Policy presented Executive Directors increased from 100% at the 2017 Annual General Meeting received approval, we recognise to 200% of salary that there was a minority that voted against it, with particular concerns relating to the Strategic Share Incentive Plan SSIP.
Good leaver provisions The PSP vesting date for the CFO is aligned to aligned across all Plans the normal vesting date under each award.
Your support is very important to us.
To alleviate some of your Thebonus payment for the CFO will be made concerns around the SSIP, following the results of the Annual on the normal payment date and a proportion General Meeting, we made the commitment to make a future of the bonus will continue to be subject to a award under the SSIP only following full consultation with our two-year deferral period.
major Shareholders as to the circumstances, the objective s, the Reduced the level of Put in place from the FY17 December 2016 target s and the quantum of any award.
We also committed to not threshold vesting under grantonwards.
proceeding without the full support of our major Shareholders.
the PSP from 30% to 25% To date, the exceptional circumstances that would give rise to using Capped the maximum New CFO pension arrangement set at a level the SSIP have not arisen and therefore the SSIP has not been used pension benefit within below the cap i. e. 20% if receiving the benefit in FY17 and there are no plans to use it in FY18.
the Policy as a cash allowance or 15% if receiving as an employer contribution into the pension In addition, in response to your concerns around the maximum scheme, instead of the Policy maximum of opportunity under the SSIP, we have capped the award to ensure 30%, to align more closely to the maximum that the maximum achievable under the SSIP will not exceed an employee with long-service in the UK the maximum achievable under the PSP, being 200% of salary.
An amended Policy with this change is not being presented for Introduced a two-year Holding period written into the PSP rules ready formal approval, however it has been reflected as notes to the holding period to the PSP for next grant in FY18 December 2017.
This future Policy table on pages 92 and 93. and SSIP means that all long-term incentive plans at Thomas Cook have a five-year time horizon in The Committee also acknowledges your concerns with our approach line with corporate governance guidelines and to disclosing EPS targets retrospectively under the PSP.
to update you on the progress we have made here.
To date, EPS targets have been directly linked to our business plan.
This made Strengthened malus and Whilst Thomas Cook was an early adopter of clawback malus and clawback in the bonus plan and them price sensitive and therefore we felt we could not disclose malus in the PSP, clawback events have been these prospectively.
written into the PSP rules ready for next grant in FY18 December 2017.
Malus and clawback We have reviewed our target setting process and have developed are now across all of our incentive plans.
a methodology that results in a target range which can now be disclosed prospectively.
As such I am pleased to be able to share Improved bonus target Targets are now disclosed at the end of the the target range for the upcoming PSP award to be made in FY18.
disclosure performance year in line with corporate In addition, in this report you will also find EPS target ranges for the governance guidelines and Shareholder expectations.
FY17 targets are disclosed in two outstanding PSP awards.
This brings our approach to disclosure thisreport.
in line with the market and aligns with our aim to be open and transparent on our long-term incentive plan targets.
Improved EPS target Last year we provided information on how disclosure EPS targets were set, and gave a performance As I mentioned earlier, a number of best practice changes were update for targets under each outstanding introduced during the year.
These included: an increase to the award.
This year we are prospectively shareholding requirement for Executive Directors: the addition of a disclosingtarget ranges for the upcoming PSPawards and disclosing target ranges for holding period to all long-term incentive plans which provide for a alloutstanding awards.
five-year time horizon on all plans: aligning good leaver provisions: and capping the maximum employer pension benefit.
We also reduced the level of vesting available for threshold performance under the PSP and improved bonus disclosure of targets by bringing forward disclosure by one year.
The changes we made and the way in which they have been implemented following approval of the Policy are set out in the table opposite: 86 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE CFO SUCCESSION REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN FY17 As previously announced, in January 2018, Bill Scott will succeed Short-term incentives Michael Healy as CFO, following Michaels decision to retire at the Progress has been made this year to deliver Group underlying EBIT end of the year.
The Board was delighted to make this internal growth, and strong cash flow management.
Our Customer at our promotion and look forward to welcoming Bill to the Board.
Heart strategy continues to bear fruit and the Group has achieved another year of improvement in NPS.
The key components of Bills remuneration package were published on our Company website and announced via a regulatory news This has resulted in a calculated achievement of 117 per cent of base service RNS statement shortly after they were agreed, and are set salary for the CEO 77.7 per cent of the maximum bonus opportunity.
The Group underlying EBIT and Group Free Cash Flow performance, along with strengthening the financial position of the Company, Bills appointment will commence on 1 January 2018 following Michael resulted in a calculated achievement of 128 per cent of base salary stepping down from the Board.
I would like to echo the Chairmans for the CFO 85.5 per cent of the maximum bonus opportunity.
comments on the significant contribution Michael has made to the Group as CFO and member of the Board.
One third of bonus payments will be deferred in shares for a period of two years and will be subject to clawback during this time.
The Committee agreed Michaels leaving arrangements in line with the Policy and these were also disclosed at the time on our Targets and outcomes for the year are fully disclosed on page 100.
Company website and via the same RNS statement Full details of Long-term incentives the arrangements are set out on page 104.
There were no awards made to Executive Directors during FY14, therefore no awards vested during FY17.
COMMITTEE AND ADVISER CHANGES In addition to the forthcoming change to the Executive Board, we The award made in FY15 granted in March 2015 is subject to the appointed two new Independent Non-Executive Directors to the achievement of performance conditions relating to FY17.
As mentioned previously by the Chairman on page 9, Paul under this award reflected our aims of significant growth in Edgecliffe-Johnson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee earnings and a substantive improvement in our cash position, with a on 21 September 2017.
As part of the overall streamlining and corresponding improvement in share price.
As performance against reorganisation ofthe Committees, Emre Berkin stepped down from the targets have not been achieved against the stretching targets, the Remuneration Committee effective 1 October 2017. and share price performance is likely not to be achieved to the extent that the target requires, awards held by Executive Directors The Committee also took the opportunity to review the advisers are anticipated to lapse in March 2018.
The targets and outcomes to the Committee as part of its obligation to ensure continued under this award are shown on page 101. independence, conducting a thorough and robust tender process during the year in which five firms were invited to participate.
Overall variable pay compared to the maximum available As described further on page 98, Mercer was selected and Outcomes reflect progress made.
However they also reflect that appointed, advising the Committee from September 2017.
Thomas Cook is still in a period of business transformation and there is still a lot to do to deliver long-term value to Shareholders.
Other Committee activities during the year included: Remuneration outcomes for the year were significantly lower ongoing dialogue with Shareholders: than the maximum opportunity during FY17, as shown in the deciding the salary increases for the CEO and CFO for April following charts: 2017, being an increase of 2 per cent in line with the overall employee population: determining performance against the targets set under the FY17 CEO annual bonus plan: 1.8m 3.2m deciding on the continued operation of the terms of the bonus plan actual maximum and setting targets for the FY18 Plan: determining award levels under the PSP for the grant to be made CFO in FY18.
As was the case last year, the PSP award will vest subject to challenging Relative TSR and EPS targets described more fully 1.4m 2.3m on page 104: actual maximum taking into consideration Corporate Governance updates Base salary Benefits incl pension Bonus PSP throughout the year and: performing annual governance checks: including the review of dilution limits, shareholding levels against Policy, reviewing risks associated with executive remuneration and the Committees activities against its Terms of Reference.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED tobe operated consistently across the Group.
For FY18, there will APPROACH FOR FY18 be full retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against Salary reviews these in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
The annual Salary reviews are undertaken annually in April of each year.
bonus opportunity will remain at 150 per cent of base salary with Overall salary increases for the Group for 2018 have not yet been one third of any payment being deferred into shares, this proportion considered, with the exception of the following: aligns with the recently published Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration which state that deferral should be any increase that is awarded to Peter Fankhauser in April applied to any bonus payments of more than 100 per cent of salary.
2018 will not exceed the increase provided to the general employee population Long-term incentives there will be no increase to Michael Healys base salary during FY18 The Committee intends to grant PSP awards in FY18, shortly Bill Scott, who will be assuming the role of CFO effective 1 January after announcement of our full year results.
The award for 2018 will not receive a salary increase in April 2018 PeterFankhauser and Bill Scott will be at the normal grant level Short-term incentives of 150 per cent.
There will be no award made to Michael Healy following his notification to the Board of his forthcoming retirement.
Two years ago, the bonus plan was reviewed to align to our The performance conditions for the award will be Relative TSR and Customer at our Heart strategy.
The Plan was rolled out to all Basic EPS, the target range of which is disclosed on page 104. bonusable roles across the Group where possible, and continues REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE The table below provides a high-level summary of the outcomes for the year and the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors for FY18: FY18 Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Incoming Chief Financial Officer Name Peter Fankhauser Michael Healy Bill Scott Annual salary 717,800 541,200 420,000 increased from 703,800, increased from 530,600, effective 1 January 2018 2%effective 1 April 2017 2%effective 1 April 2017 Maximum bonus opportunity one-third 150% of base salary 150% of base salary 150% of base salary deferred into shares for two years pro-rata for time employed Salary used in calculation prorated to reflect time in CFO role PSP award subject to performance 150% of base salary No award being made 150% of base salary FY17 Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Incoming Chief Financial Officer Bonus payment % of base salary 117% 128% Not applicable to CFO role 836,596 694,089 LTIP awards % of maximum None None vesting award vesting in the year Number of vested shares None None I would like to take this opportunity to give my thanks to my fellow CLOSING REMARKS members of the Committee and those who supported us for their As a Committee, we believe that our approach to remuneration contributions during the year.
closely aligns to your expectations, making responsible remuneration decisions, and being mindful of the evolving corporate Finally, I look forward to receiving your support on the resolutions governance landscape in which we operate, with many best practice relating to remuneration at the Annual General Meeting in February approaches included in our Policy.
With your continued input, we will 2018 where I will be available to respond to any questions you may ensure we maintain our strong commitment to a clear link between have on this report, or the Committees activities more generally.
pay and performance, operating under a structure that rewards performance for the execution of our Customer at our Heart WARREN TUCKER strategy, and the delivery of long-term Shareholder value.
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 21 November 2017 88 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
