Governance Remuneration Committee report Dear shareholders, This is my third and final year as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, prior to my retirement as a Director in February 2018.
I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the 2017 Directors Remuneration report.
This Directors Remuneration report sets out a summary of the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the Belinda Richards Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 8 February Committee Chairman 2017.
It took effect on that date and will apply for three years.
You can find a full copy of the policy in the 2016 Annual Report or on our website.
Index to the report Committee Chairmans Annual Statement This statement and report will be subject to an advisory vote at Summary Remuneration Policy the AGM on 7 February 2018.
Annual Report on Remuneration This report also discloses the amounts paid to our Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director 68 2016 and 2017 The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2.
Annual bonus awards performance assessment for 2017 69 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 3.
LTIP awards performance assessment for 2017 71 2013.
We have prepared it in line with the recommendations of 4.
Share scheme interests awarded during the year 72 the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Payments for loss of office and to past Directors 72 6.
Directors shareholdings and share interests 73 Aligning remuneration with strategy A number of refinements were made to our previous 7.
Performance graph and table total shareholder return 74 Remuneration Policy to improve alignment with our long-term 8.
Chief Executive single figure 75 PRS-focused strategy and overriding objective of creating returnsfor our shareholders.
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive 75 and employees approved the revised Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Relative importance of spend on pay 75 The policy refinements included simplifying the number of incentive schemes we operated, and placing a greater weighting 11.
Statement of implementation of Remuneration 76 Policy for 2018 on our long-term performance, which is more aligned to the long-term nature of our business.
Directors service agreements and letters of appointment 78 weighting through the part deferral of annual bonus into shares, 13.
Details of the Remuneration Committee, advisers to the 78 operating a share-based Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Committee and their fees with a two-year holding period on vested shares, and a 200% of salary share ownership guideline.
Statement of voting at general meeting 78 performance measures we targeted for improvement in the 2017 financial year including adjusted earnings, return on shareholder equity ROSE, total property return TPR and relative total How the Committee spent its time shareholder return TSR, are also fully aligned with supporting our PRS-focused strategy, targeting a clear balance between Governance, investor relations income growth and long-term shareholder returns.
As aresult, and reporting 25% we will retain these measures in our incentives in 2018.
Remuneration policy 20% Executive share plans 15% 2017 performance and reward Performance monitoring Under our refined policy, the majority of the annual bonus in 2017 and review 30% was subject to a combination of ROSE and adjusted earnings Senior management targets.
These measures combined to ensure Executive Directors remuneration and retention 10% focused on improving profit from their day-to-day activities, at thesame time as maximising the value of Graingers underlying assets.
In addition, we based a minority of the bonus opportunity on how well each of our Executive Directors performed on an individual scorecard of key performance measures.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information With regard to the performance during the year, we achieved Directors will continue to earn the annual bonus based on adjusted earnings of 74.4m and ROSE of 7.3%.
The performance performing to a combination of challenging ROSE and adjusted against adjusted earnings was 7.8m ahead of the target set earnings targets, with a small but significant proportion of the total for the year of 66.6m, and ROSE was in the lower half of the bonus opportunity reserved for achieving tailored strategic 5%15% performance range.
When we combined these figures personal objectives.
One-quarter of any bonus earned will with the individual strategic targets, annual bonuses ranged from continue to be subject to deferral into the Companys shares, 55% to 63% of the maximum available.
Full disclosure of the toprovide a link between attaining short-term objectives actual targets set, andperformance towards those targets, andlonger-term performance.
In addition, strict recovery and is on pages 69 to 71. withholding provisions will continue to apply to any bonus earnedin relation to 2018.
With our LTIP, the 2014 awards will vest in December 2017.
The performance targets for this award related to EPRA NNNAV For the LTIP, the three-year performance targets will again relate 50% of award and absolute TSR.
For theperformance period to an equal combination of TPR and relative TSR compared to ended 30 September 2017, EPRA NNNAV has increased by25.2% our sector peers.
As with the annual bonus, strict recovery and against the 15.9% increase in the Halifax and Nationwide House withholding provisions apply, along with a two-year holding Price indices.
This will result in 6% vesting ofthis part of the period on any shares that vest.
TSR is forecast to show an annual compound increase For 2018, our general approach to target setting in respect of of approximately 14% over the three-year performance period adjusted earnings and strategic targets will remain consistent ending 16 December 2017.
If this level of TSR is maintained for with the approach taken in 2017.
In relation to ROSE, we have the period, it will result in 90% of this part of the award vesting.
taken the opportunity to recalibrate the performance range In light of the strong performance achieved over the relevant to take appropriate account of the current strategic focus on performance periods, the Committee is comfortable, overall, with developing PRS accommodation and also having due regard the level of variable pay earned and the forecast for the 2014 LTIP.
to the wider macro-economic outlook which includes lower forecast house price inflation HPI.
Full details of the 2018 Board changes bonus structure are included on page 76 and the Committee It was announced on 30 August 2017 that Nick Jopling would be is comfortable that the degree of stretch in the overall bonus leaving Grainger by reason of redundancy.
His redundancy forms is no less challenging than the structure in place for 2017, part of a Group-wide restructuring undertaken over the past 18 giving appropriate allowance for current circumstances.
months to better align our structure with achieving our strategy.
Nick stepped down from the Board on 29 September 2017 and, The choice of metrics, and balance between short and long-term following an orderly handover, his employment will terminate on performance, are fully aligned with our PRS-led strategy and 31 December 2017 the date his role is made redundant.
His role overall objective of maximising suitable shareholder returns.
line with best practice, the Committee also retains the discretion to override incentive plans formulaic outcomes if it considers In line with the terms of his service agreement, Nick will receive there to be an inconsistency between performance and reward.
apayment in lieu of his six-month notice period following the termination of his employment.
He will also be treated as a good In addition, I would highlight that we have implemented the leaver for the purposes of annual bonus and LTIPs, with the newSave As You Earn SAYE share scheme rules approved by relevant performance conditions continuing to apply over the shareholders at the last AGM, and continue to operate them full performance periods.
Incentives will be reduced, pro-rata, inline with the principle of broad employee share ownership.
where his employment ceases part way through the relevant Grainger regularly encourages employees to become owners performance or vesting period as appropriate.
Further details inthe Company, by providing frequent awareness sessions and relating to his redundancy and termination arrangements are assistance in joining available share schemes.
Shareholder engagement Implementing the policy for 2018 The Committee is committed to maintaining an ongoing dialogue Pursuant to the strategic focus on management of overheads, with shareholders and other stakeholders on the issue of executive there was no increase to the base salaries in respect of the remuneration, and we welcome any feedback you may have.
Executive Directors during the 2016 17 pay review process.
We look forward to your support on the resolution relating to For the 2017 18 period, the base salaries of the Executive remuneration at the AGM on 7 February 2018.
Directors will be increased with effect from 1 January 2018, in line with the typical increase given to the wider employee population.
See page 76 for more details.
Belinda Richards Since the revised Remuneration Policy implemented in 2017 is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee working well, we are to retain the same structure and 30 November 2017 performance measures for 2018.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
