GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee operating model and the continued effectiveness of our strategy in the face of significant headwinds in the year.
BONUS Annual bonus payments are based on a combination of key financial and operational targets as well as an element based on personal and departmental objectives.
A bonus of 67% of the maximum was awarded to the Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Findlay, in respect of the 2017 financial year.
This reflects the strong company performance versus the profit, cost, personal and departmental objectives set at the outset of the year.
However, no bonus was earned in respect of the on-time performance and customer satisfaction scores which fell just below the threshold set by the Committee.
One-third CHARLES GURASSA of the bonus earned is subject to compulsory deferral into Chair of the Remuneration Committee shares for three years.
As noted above, Carolyn McCall is not eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the 2017 financial year.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors LTIP remuneration report the Report for the year ended An LTIP award made to the Chief Financial Officer on 30 September 2017.
The 2017 Report sets out details of recruitment in November 2015 is due to vest in December the remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive 2017.
The award is based on a combination of average return Directors, describes how the remuneration policy is on capital employed ROCE performance including lease implemented and discloses the amounts paid relating to adjustments and relative total shareholder return TSR the year ended 30 September 2017 and how it will be compared to FTSE 31-130 companies for the three financial implemented for the 2018 financial year.
The Group achieved CHANGES TO THE BOARD three-year average ROCE performance including lease We announced on 17 July 2017 that our Chief Executive, adjustments of 16.2% but TSR was below median.
This Carolyn McCall, had advised the Board of her intention to leave resulted in 15.3% of the awards vesting, subject to continued easyJet in order to become Chief Executive of ITV plc.
She employment to the vesting date.
LTIP awards made to Carolyn steps down from the Board and her position as Chief McCall in December 2014 and due to vest in December 2017 Executive on 30 November 2017 but will continue to be have now lapsed as a result of her resignation.
actively employed by easyJet until 31 December 2017, in order REVIEW OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION to assist with the transition to the new Chief Executive.
Carolyn POLICY will continue to receive salary and benefits over the period until In advance of the expiry of the Groups approved policy at the she leaves the Business.
She will not be eligible for an annual next AGM, the Committee has undertaken a thorough review bonus payment for the 2017 financial year or the 2018 financial of the current arrangements and has concluded that the year: all of her unvested Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP existing approach remains effective and aligned with easyJets awards have lapsed and her deferred bonus share awards will strategic objectives as set out on page 11. lapse in full beyond the end of her employment.
The Committee believes that the current remuneration We were delighted to announce on 10 November 2017 the framework ensures there is significant alignment between the appointment of Johan Lundgren who will join the Board and interests of Executive Directors and shareholders, focuses replace Carolyn as Chief Executive on 1 December.
The executives on safely delivering easyJets key strategic remuneration arrangements for Johan are fully consistent with objectives and incorporates features which contribute to an our remuneration policy.
The remuneration package has been appropriate level of risk mitigation.
For example, incentive pay designed to provide a competitive total pay arrangement with is subject to recovery and withholding provisions, a posta focus on variable pay and is aligned with the long-term vesting holding period operates for LTIP awards and significant interests of shareholders.
On appointment Johan will receive share ownership guidelines apply.
an annual salary of 740,000, an annual bonus up to a maximum of 200% of salary, an LTIP award of up to 250% of We are not, therefore, proposing any fundamental changes to salary, pension contribution of 7% of salary and some modest the policy.
However, we are recommending some minor benefits.
No additional buy-outs from previously awarded amendments to increase flexibility, enhance clarity and further incentive arrangements will be payable.
Johan will be expected strengthen alignment with shareholders interests.
The key to build and maintain a shareholding of 200% of salary over a change is in relation to the LTIP, where we are proposing to five year period following appointment.
introduce greater flexibility in the selection of measures and weightings to ensure that targets are fully aligned with the PERFORMANCE AND REWARD OUTCOMES IN strategic imperatives prevailing at the time they are set.
THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR I am pleased to report that easyJet has delivered a strong trading performance in 2017 across the business despite the continuing external challenges impacting the business.
This is reflected in our performance and incentive outcomes which are summarised in the Remuneration at a glance section on page 67.
Once again this shows the great resilience of our 65 www.
com Directors remuneration report continued IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR We will be taking the following approach to implementation of the remuneration policy for the year ending 30 September 2018: SALARY Johan Lundgrens salary on appointment will be 740,000.
As previously reported, Andrew Findlays salary was set at 425,000 on appointment, with a stated intention to increase this in phases to 500,000 over time.
Last year, this was increased to 462,500 and this year the Committee has decided to increase Andrew Findlays salary to 500,000.
This represents the final step in this process and will complete the transition to the appropriate level.
Carolyn McCalls salary will remain at its current level until her employment ends.
BONUS The Committee has set appropriate and stretching annual bonus targets for the year ended 30 September 2018 based on headline profit before tax and key operational, financial and personal targets.
One-third of any bonus earned will continue to be subject to compulsory deferral into shares for three years.
LTIP In order to provide a balance between growth and returns that reflects our financial goals more closely, the Committee is consulting with major shareholders and shareholder advisory groups on the introduction of an earnings per share EPS measure to operate alongside the current ROCE and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR measures in the LTIP.
We believe that the combination of these three measures will focus our executive team on sustainable growth of the business EPS, maintain a disciplined approach to use of capital ROCE, and align executive remuneration to growth in sustainable shareholder value TSR.
The Committee will fully disclose finalised targets at the earliest opportunity.
On behalf of the Committee I thank you for your continued support.
We trust that you find the report informative and, as always, I welcome any comments you may have.
20 November 2017 CHARLES GURASSA Chair of the Remuneration Committee WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT?
This Report sets out easyJets remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes the implementation of that policy and discloses the amounts earned relating to the year ended 30 September 2017.
The Report complies with the provisions of the CompaniesAct 2006 and supporting regulations.
The Report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UK LA Listing Rules.
The Directors remuneration policy set out on pages 69 to 75 will be put to shareholders in a binding vote at the forthcoming AGM and, if approved, will formally supersede the previous policy with immediate effect.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee set out on pages 65 to 66 and the Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 75 to 84 will together be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
66 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Remuneration at a glance REWARD PRINCIPLES The Committees primary objective is to design a remuneration framework which promotes the long-term success of the Group.
To this end, we are guided by the following reward principles which remain unchanged: Principle Application in remuneration framework Simple & cost To establish a simple and cost-effective reward package in line with our low-cost and efficient business effective model.
For example, our Executive Directors do not receive the level of benefits that can be found in the majority of listed companies and instead are aligned with those in the wider employee population.
Aligned with business To support the achievement of our business strategy of growth and returns, performance is assessed strategy against a range of financial, operational, and longer-term targets.
This ensures that value is delivered to shareholders and that Executive Directors are rewarded for the successful and sustained delivery of the key strategic objectives of the Group.
Pay for performance Total remuneration closely reflects performance and is therefore more heavily weighted towards variable pay than fixed pay.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the amount paid to our Executive Directors.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION 000 CEO Carolyn McCall 2017 757 2016 1,453 CFO Andrew Findlay 1,095 2017 2016 1,262 200 600 1,200 1,400 1,600 400 800 1,000 Fixed Bonus LTIP Buyout ANNUAL BONUS AND LTIP OUTCOMES Annual bonus - FY2017 performance Achieved % of Maximum Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Metrics % of max bonus achieved Headline profit before tax 433 at budgeted constant currency 60% 80% 47.8% 359 398 457 m 76% On-time performance 10% 0% 0% 77% 78.5% 80% 71% Customer satisfaction 10% 0% 0% 72% 73.5% 75% Headline cost per seat at 40.20 budgeted constant currency 10% 88% 8.8% 40.88 40.61 40.07 Outstanding Departmental Individual 10% 100% 10% Outstanding n a Successful LTIP - FY2017 performance Target Actual Target Actual 100 20% Upper quartile 30.6% of ROCE LTIPs vested and 0% of TSR 75 LTIPs such that, overall, 15.3% of LTIPs will vest 50 18% 16% 25 15% Median Below 15% Threshold vesting 0 ROCE TSR Overall 50% weighting 50% weighting 67 www.
com Directors remuneration report continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY AT A GLANCE Element Policy Implementation of Policy for FY2018 Base salary Increase normally up to the average Johan Lundgrens salary on appointment will be 740,000. workforce level though may be Andrew Findlays salary will increase from 462,500 to 500,000 final increased at higher rates in certain stage in planned transition to the market level effective 1 January 2018. circumstances, e. g. where salary is set below market on recruitment Carolyn McCalls salary will not be increased.
and is being transitioned to a competitive level in a series of planned stages.
Benefits and Modest pension and benefit Pension of 7% of salary: plus modest benefits.
pension provision, at similar levels as the wider UK workforce.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity is 200% of Maximum will remain at 200% of salary for the new Chief Executive and salary Chief Executive and 175% of at 175% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Carolyn McCall will not salary Chief Financial Officer.
participate in the 2018 financial year.
Performance measures and One-third of bonus deferred into weightings are as follows: shares for three years.
Majority based on financial measures.
Annual bonus performance weighting Personal 10% On-time performance 10% Customer satisfaction 10% Headline cost per seat 10% Headline profit before tax 60% Long-term Normal maximum awards of 250% Award to new Chief Executive of 250% of salary and award to incentive plan of salary Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of 200% of salary.
Carolyn McCall will not 200% of salary Chief Financial participate for the 2018 financial year.
Up to 300% of salary in The Committee is seeking feedback from major shareholders and exceptional circumstances.
shareholder advisory groups and will confirm the targets at the Three-year performance period earliest opportunity.
Based on financial and relative TSRtargets.
Share ownership 200% of salary Chief Executive In line with policy.
guidelines and 175% ofsalary Chief Financial Officer.
Requirement to retain 50% of post-tax LTIP vesting and 100% of post-tax deferred bonus shares until guideline is met and maintained.
68 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out CONSIDERING THE VIEWS OF SHAREHOLDERS easyJets directors remuneration policy.
This revised policy WHEN DETERMINING THE REMUNERATION willbe put to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at POLICY theAGM on 8 February 2018.
The effective date of the revised easyJet remains committed to shareholder dialogue and takes policy, if approved, will also be 8 February 2018.
The an active interest in voting outcomes.
We consult extensively Committees current intention is that the revised policy will with our major shareholders when setting our remuneration operate for the three year period to the AGM in 2021. policy or when considering any significant changes to our remuneration arrangements.
The Committee also considers ROLE OF OUR REMUNERATION COMMITTEE shareholder feedback received in relation to the Directors The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for remuneration report each year following the AGM.
This, plus determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and any additional feedback received from time to time, is then theChairman of the Board.
The Committee also reviews the considered as part of the Committees annual review of remuneration of the Groups most senior executives in remuneration policy and its implementation.
consultation with the Chief Executive.
The Committee takes into account the need to recruit and retain executives and CHANGES TO THE PREVIOUS REMUNERATION ensure that they are properly motivated to perform in the POLICY APPROVED BY SHAREHOLDERS AT THE long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders, 2015 AGM whilepaying no more than is necessary.
The Committee has undertaken a thorough review of the existing remuneration policy, taking full account of easyJets CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DETERMINING THE strategic objectives and developments in the external pay REMUNERATION POLICY environment.
The Committee firmly believes that the current The primary objective of the Groups remuneration policy overarching remuneration policy continues to be effective and is to promote the long-term success of the Group through the that no significant changes are required.
However, some minor operation of competitive pay arrangements which are amendments have been proposed in order to ensure that the structured so as to be in the best interests of shareholders.
policy is sufficiently flexible to operate effectively over the next When setting the policy for Executive Directors remuneration, three-year period and provide additional clarity on how we the Committee takes into account total remuneration levels operate our policy in some areas.
Specifically, the policy operating in companies of a similar size and complexity, the incorporates additional flexibility with regard to the specific responsibilities of each individual role, individual performance measures and weightings which will be used for the LTIP to and an individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having had ensure that any measures and targets are fully aligned with due regard to the factors noted, is to weight remuneration thestrategic imperatives prevailing at the time they are set.
This is typically achieved through setting base pay at a competitive level, offering very modest pension and benefits, and with the potential to earn above-market variable pay subject to the achievement of demanding performance targets linked to the Groups strategic objectives.
In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Group.
Salary increases will ordinarily be in percentage of salary terms no higher than those of the wider workforce.
The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group People Director.
The Committee also considers developments in institutional investors best practice expectations and the views expressed by shareholders during any dialogue.
com Directors remuneration report continued SUMMARY OF THE REMUNERATION STRUCTURE The table below sets out the main components of easyJets remuneration policy: Framework used to assess Element, purpose performance and provisions and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Salary Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with changes typically The Committee considers effective from1January.
individual salaries at the To provide the core reward appropriate Committee forthe role.
Salaries are typically set after considering salary levels in companies meeting each year after of a similar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual having due regard to Sufficient level to recruit role, progression within the role, individual performance and an thefactors noted in and retain individuals of individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having had due regard to operating the the necessary calibre to the factors noted, is normally to target salaries at a broadly market salarypolicy.
execute the Groups business competitive level.
No recovery provisions Salaries may be adjusted and any increase will ordinarily be apply tosalary.
in percentage of salary terms no higher than those of the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Benefits Executive Directors receive benefits provisions at similar levels as the Not applicable.
Benefits will typically include, for example, In line with the Groups No recovery provisions modest death in service cover.
The cost to the Group of providing policyto keep remuneration apply tobenefits.
these benefits may vary from year-to-year depending on the level of simple and consistent.
Executive Directors typically receive no other conventional executive company benefits but will be eligible for any other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Other benefits such as relocation allowances and other incidental associated expenses may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Executive Directors can pay for voluntary benefits, where Group purchasing power may provide an advantage toemployees.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment as opposed to providing the benefits detailedabove.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Group business are reimbursed so that Executive Directors are not worse off on a net of tax basis for fulfilling Group duties.
Pension Defined contribution plan with the same monthly employer Not applicable.
contributions as those offered to eligible employees in the wider UK To provide employees with No recovery provisions workforce i. e. up to 7% of base salary : or a cash alternative to the long-term savings via pension apply to employer equivalent value less employers National Insurance contribution costs.
provisions in line with the pension contributions.
Groups strategy to keep easyJet operates a pension salary sacrifice arrangement whereby remuneration simple and individuals can exchange part of their salary for Group paid pension consistent.
Where individuals exchange salary this reduces employer National Insurance contributions.
easyJet credits half of this reduction currently 6.9% of the salary exchanged to the individuals pension plan.
70 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Element, purpose Framework used to assess performance and provisions and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Share ownership The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Not applicable.
Officer are expected to build and maintain a To ensure alignment between holding equivalent to 200% and 175% of salary the interests of Executive respectively over a period of five years Directors and shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP and 100% of the post-tax deferred bonus shares until the guideline is met and keep it maintained thereafter.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for Bonuses are based on stretching financial, ChiefExecutive and 175% of salary for other operational and personal departmental To incentivise andrecognise ExecutiveDirectors.
performance measures, as set and assessed execution of the business by the Committee in its discretion, with strategy on an annual basis.
One-third of the pre-tax bonus earned is performance normally measured over a Rewards the achievement subject to compulsory deferral into shares or one-year period.
Financial measures e. g. ofannual financialand equivalent, typically for a period of three years, headline profit before tax will represent the operational goals.
and is normally subject to continued majority of bonus, with other measures employment.
A graduated scale Compulsory deferral provides of targets is set for each measure, with 10% alignment with shareholders.
The remainder of the bonus is paid in cash.
of each element being payable for achieving Dividend equivalent payments may be made on the relevant thresholdhurdle.
the deferred bonus, at the time of vesting and Safety underpins all of the operational activities may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
of the Group and the bonus plan includes a All bonus payments are at the discretion of provision that enables the Remuneration the Committee, as shown following this table.
Committee to scale back the bonus earned including to zero in the event that there is a safety event which it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
The annual bonus plan includes provisions which enable the Committee in respect of both the cash and the deferred elements of bonuses to recover or withhold value in the event of certain defined circumstances.
LTIP Performance Share Each year LTIP awards may be granted subject LTIP awards currently vest based on Award to the achievement of performance targets.
performance against a challenging range of Awards normally vest over a three-year period.
financial targets and relative TSR performance To incentivise andrecognise set and assessed by the Committee in its execution of the business The maximum opportunity contained within the discretion.
Financial targets currently determine strategy over the longer-term.
plan rules for Performance Share Awards is vesting in relation to at least 50% of awards.
Rewards strong financial 250% of salary with awards up to 300% of The selection of measures and weightings may performance andsustained salary eligible to be made in exceptional be varied for future award cycles as appropriate increasein shareholder value.
to reflect the strategic priorities of the business The normal maximum face value of annual at that time.
awards will be 250% of salary for the Chief Performance is normally measured over a Executive and 200% of salary forother three-year period.
A maximum of 25% of each element vests for Dividend equivalent awards may be made on achieving the threshold performance target LTIP awards that vest, and may assume the with 100% of the awards being earned for reinvestment of dividends.
A holding period applies to share awards The LTIP includes provisions which enable the granted in the financial year ended 30 Committee to recover or withhold value in the September 2015 and beyond.
The holding event of certain defined circumstances.
period will require the Executive Directors to retain the after-tax value of shares for24 months from the vesting date.
com Directors remuneration report continued DISCRETION RETAINED BY THE COMMITTEE IN PERFORMANCE METRICS AND TARGET SETTING OPERATING THE INCENTIVE PLANS The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and LTIP annual bonus plan reflect the Committees belief that any according to their respective rules or relevant documents incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The and tied to the delivery of a blend of key financial, operational Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, and personal targets intended to ensure that Executive in a number of regards to the operation and administration of Directors are incentivised to deliver across a scorecard of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following objectives for which they are accountable.
Financial measures in relation to the LTIP and annual bonus deferred in shares: e. g. headline profit before tax will be used for the majority of the bonus and will be selected in order to provide a clear the participants: indication of how successful the Group has been in managing the timing of grant of an award: operations effectively overall e. g. in maximising profit per seat whilst maintaining a high load factor.
The remainder of the the size of an award: bonus will be based on key operational e. g. on-time the determination of vesting: performance and customer satisfaction and personal or the payment vehicle of the award payment: departmental measures set annually.
discretion required when dealing with a change of control Since safety is of central importance to the business, the or restructuring of the Group: award of any bonus is subject to an underpin that enables the determination of the treatment of leavers based on the Remuneration Committee to reduce the bonus earned rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: including to zero in the event that there is a safety event that adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
issues, corporate restructuring events and special LTIP awards are earned for delivering performance against dividends : and anappropriate balance of key long-term financial e. g. ROCE the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and EPS and relative TSR targets.
These seek to assess the and targets for the LTIP from year-to-year.
underlying financial performance of the business while maintaining clear alignment between shareholders and In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains Executive Directors.
Targets are set based on a sliding scale discretion over: that takes account of relevant commercial factors.
the participants: Only modest awards are available for delivering threshold the timing of grant of a payment: performance levels with maximum awards requiring substantial the determination of the bonus payment: outperformance of challenging plans.
dealing with a change of control: The Committee has retained some flexibility on the specific determination of the treatment of leavers based on measures which can be used for the annual bonus plan and the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment the LTIP to ensure that they will be fully aligned with the chosen: and strategic imperatives prevailing at the time they are set.
the annual review of performance measures and weighting, No performance targets are set for Save As You Earn awards and targets for the annual bonus plan from year-to-year.
since these are purposefully designed to encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in the Company.
A In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, measure of Group performance is used in determining awards the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or under the Share Incentive Plan.
set different measures if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate e. g. HISTORICAL AWARDS material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, All historical awards that were granted under any current or and the amendment is required so that the conditions previous share schemes operated by the Company, and which achievetheir original purpose and are not materially less remain outstanding, remain eligible to vest on the basis of their difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the DIFFERENCES IN PAY POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of DIRECTORS COMPARED TO OTHER EASYJET consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
EMPLOYEES The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Save As You heavily weighted towards variable and share-based pay than Earn and Share Incentive Plans will be as permitted under for other employees, to make a greater part of their pay HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
conditional on the successful delivery of business strategy.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Thisaims to create a clear link between the value created for Directorsare set out on page 79 of the Annual Report.
These shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
However, in line with the Groups policy to keep remuneration simple and performance-based, the benefit and pension arrangements for the current Executive Directors are on the same terms as those offered to eligible employees in the wider workforce.
All employees have the opportunity to participate in the tax-advantaged share plans.
72 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE It should be noted that since the analysis above shows what ILLUSTRATION OF HOW MUCH THE EXECUTIVE could be earned by the Executive Directors based on the DIRECTORS COULD EARN UNDER THE remuneration policy described above ignoring the potential REMUNERATION POLICY impact of share price growth, the numbers will be different to A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to the values included in the table on page 77 detailing what was performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
The actually earned by the Executive Directors in relation to the charts below show how much the Chief Executive and Chief financial year ended 30 September 2017, since these values Financial Officer could earn under easyJets remuneration are based on the actual levels of performance achieved to policy under different performance scenarios in the 2018 30 September 2017 and include the impact of share price financial year.
The following assumptions have been made: growth in relation to share awards.
Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay only EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF with no vesting under any of easyJets incentive plans.
EMPLOYMENT In line with expectations Fixed pay plus a bonus at the The Groups policy is for Executive Directors to have mid-point of the range giving 50% of the maximum service contracts which may be terminated with no more than opportunity and vesting of 50% of the maximum under 12 months notice from either party.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Fixed pay plus maximum bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
APPROACH TO LEAVERS If notice is served by either party, the Executive Director can Fixed pay comprises: continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the salaries salary effective as at 1 October 2017 or on duration of their notice period during which time the Business appointment for the Chief Executive : may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
benefits amount received in the 2017 financial year estimated for the new Chief Executive : A payment in lieu of notice may be made and, in this event, pension employer contributions or cash-equivalent the Committees normal policy is to make the payment in up payments received in the 2017 financial year the level on to 12 monthly instalments which may be reduced if alternative appointment for the Chief Executive : and employment was taken up during this period.
Free and Matching Shares under the all-employee share Bonus payments may be made, payable in cash, on a incentive plan.
pro-rata basis, but only for the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination and not for any period in lieu of notice.
Any bonus paid would be CHIEF EXECUTIVE JOHAN LUNDGREN subject to the normal bonus targets, tested at the end of the Below threshold financial year.
100% 794,000 In relation to a termination of employment, the Committee maymake any statutory entitlements or payments to settle In line with expectations orcompromise claims in connection with a termination of 32% 30% 38% 2,459,000 anyexisting or future Executive Director as necessary.
TheCommittee also retains the discretion to reimburse Exceeds target reasonablelegal expenses incurred in relation to a termination 19% 36% 45% 4,124,000 of employment and to meet any outplacement costs if Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Performance deemed necessary.
The rules of our share plans set out what happens to awards if a participant ceases tobe an employee or Director of CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER ANDREW FINDLAY easyJet before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any Below threshold outstanding share awards will lapse on such cessation, except in certain circumstances.
100% 496,000 If an Executive Director ceases to be an employee or Director In line with expectations of easyJet as a result of death, injury, retirement, the sale of 36% 30% 34% 1,363,000 the business or company that employs the individual, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will Exceeds target be treated as a good leaver under the relevant plans rules.
36% 41% 22% 2,230,000 Under the deferred bonus, the shares for a good leaver will normally vest in full on the normal vesting date or on Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Performance cessation of employment in the case of death and if the award is in the form of an option, there is a 12-month window in which the award can be exercised.
Awards structured as The scenarios do not include any share price growth or options which have vested prior to cessation can be exercised dividend assumptions.
within 12months of cessation of office or employment.
com Directors remuneration report continued Under the LTIP, a good leavers unvested awards will vest not include the value of any buy-out arrangements.
Any either on the normal vesting date or the relevant date of incentive offered above this limit would be contingent on the cessation, as determined by the Committee subject to Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to achievement of any relevant performance conditions, with a its approved policy.
Different performance measures may be pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the period served.
The Committee has the discretion to disapply responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
A good year that they joined.
LTIP awards can be made shortly leaver may exercise their vested awards structured as options following an appointment assuming the Company is not in for a period of 12 months following the individuals cessation aclosed period.
of office or employment, whereas unvested awards may be The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the exercised within 12 months of vesting.
Board or an external hire.
In determining whether an Executive Director should be In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out treated as a good leaver, and the extent to which their award incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be may vest, the Committee will take into account the forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be circumstances of an individuals departure.
provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, In the event of a takeover or winding-up of easyJet plc which timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any is not part of an internal reorganisation of the easyJet Group, existing performance criteria of the remuneration being in circumstances where equivalent replacement awards are forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted not granted all awards will vest subject to, in the case of LTIP using easyJets share plans to the extent possible, although awards, the achievement of any relevant performance awards may also be granted outside these schemes if conditions with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
The Committee has discretion to In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding variable disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be paid Inthe event of a takeover, the Committee may determine, according to its terms of grant adjusted as relevant to take with the agreement of the acquiring company, that awards into account the Board appointment.
will be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Director, fees will be set taking into account the experience Executive Directors are permitted to accept appropriate and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share outside Non-Executive Director appointments so long as the arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, overall commitment is compatible with their duties as Executive these will not include share options or other performanceDirectors and is not thought to interfere with the business of related elements.
Any fees received in respect of these appointments are retained directly by the relevant Executive Director.
The Board evaluation and succession planning processes in place are designed to ensure there is the correct balance of APPROACH TO DETERMINING REMUNERATION skills, experience and knowledge on the Board.
The activities of ON RECRUITMENT the Nominations Committee overseeing these matters are Base salary levels will be set in accordance with easyJets disclosed in the Nominations Committee report.
remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Where it is considered appropriate to NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to achieve the The Non-Executive Directors receive an annual fee normally desired salary positioning may be given over the following few paid in monthly instalments.
The fee for the Non-Executive years to reflect progression in the role, subject to individual Chairman is set by the Remuneration Committee and the fees performance.
Benefits will normally be provided in line with for the other Non-Executive Directors are approved by the those offered to other employees.
The Committee may provide Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman and an allowance and or reimbursement of any reasonable Chief Executive.
expenses in relation to the relocation of an Executive Director.
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF THE easyJet may also offer a cash amount on recruitment, payment NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS of which may be staggered, to reflect the value of benefits a The terms of appointment of the Chairman and the other new recruit may have received from a former employer.
Non-Executive Directors are recorded in letters of Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, appointment.
Therequired notice from the Company is three flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of months.
The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it compensation on loss ofoffice.
may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are unique circumstances of such an appointment.
available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on an registered office.
ongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be in accordance with the approved policy detailed above, i. e. at an aggregate maximum of up to 450% of salary 200% annual bonus and 250% Performance Shares under the LTIP, taking into account annual and long-term variable pay.
This limit does 74 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable Fees To attract and retain a The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
high calibre Chairman, The other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary fees Deputy Chairman payable for additional Board Committee responsibilities.
andNon-Executive Directorsby offering The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups market-competitive incentive arrangements.
Fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis, and may be increased, taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to exceed current fee levels if it is necessary to do so in order to appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of an appropriate calibre.
In exceptional circumstances, if there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees to recognise the additional workload.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Group business will be reimbursed so that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not worse off, on a net of tax basis, for fulfilling Company duties.
No other benefits or remuneration are provided to the Chairman or .
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Base salary The current and proposed salaries of the Executive Membership of the Remuneration Committee As at 30 September 2017, the members of the Directors are: 1 January 1 January Committee were: 1 2018 salary 2017 salary Change Charles Gurassa Chair Johan Lundgren 740,000 740,000 Carolyn McCall n a 705,600 n a Adle Anderson Andrew Findlay 500,000 462,500 8% Moya Greene appointed to the Committee effective 20 September 2017 1 or on appointment if later Andy Martin Johan Lundgrens salary has been set at 740,000 from Franois Rubichon stepped down from the Board and the appointment on 1 December 2017.
The salary will not be Committee on 22 July 2017. reviewed before 1 January 2019.
Andrew Findlays base salary was set at 425,000 when he joined the Board in October The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the 2015.
The salary was set at a significant discount to the market Corporate Governance section of the Annual report on level with the intention that it would be brought up to the page 64. mid-market level 500,000 over time to reflect progression The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend meetings by in the role.
The increase effective 1 January 2018, to 500,000 invitation and assist the Committee in its deliberations as is the final stage in this process and was subject to an appropriate.
The Committee also receives assistance from the assessment of individual and Business performance.
Group People Director and the Group Head of Reward.
The For comparison, the typical rates of salary increase to be Company Secretary and the Group General Counsel acts as awarded to employees in Group functions is 1% to 3%.
No Directors are involved in determining their own remuneration.
ANNUAL BONUS IN RESPECT OF PERFORMANCE IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 200% of salary FOR THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR for the new Chief Executive Carolyn McCall will not participate There will be no material changes to the remuneration policy in the annual bonus for the 2018 financial year and at 175% for or its implementation for the 2018 financial year.
easyJets the Chief Financial Officer.
The measures have been selected remuneration policy has received consistently high levels of to reflect a range of financial and operational goals that investor support over time and the Committee considers that support the key strategic objectives of the Group.
it remains aligned with the best practice expectations of institutional investors.
com Directors remuneration report continued The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: The LTIP includes provisions which enable the Committee to recover or withhold value in certain events within three years As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity of the vesting.
These include misstatement of results or a Measure CEO CFO calculation error used in assessing the number of shares under an award or the extent to which any performance condition Headline profit before tax was met or in situations where the individual is considered to at budgeted constant currency 60% 60% have contributed to any safety failure which could result in On-time performance 10% 10% reputational damage for the Business.
Customer satisfaction 10% 10% NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Headline costs per seat excluding fuel at budgeted constant currency 10% 10% The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be as follows: Personal and departmental objectives 10% 10% Chairman 300,000 Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 60,000 The proposed target levels for the 2018 financial year have Fees for Deputy Chairman and Senior been set to be challenging relative to the business plan.
1 Independent Director role 25,000 The Committee is comfortable that the bonus targets for both Chair of the Audit, Safety and Executive Directors are appropriately demanding in light of 1  15,000 their respective bonus opportunities.
1 Chair of the Finance Committee 10,000 The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2018 financial 1 Supplementary fees.
However, retrospective The Board has agreed that there will be no increase to the disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be basic fees for the 2018 financial year: these are reviewed provided in next years remuneration report unless they remain regularly and were last increased on 1 October 2013. commercially sensitive at that time.
The safety of our customers and people underpins all of the operational activities of the Group and the bonus plan includes a provision that enables the Remuneration Committee to scale back the bonus awarded in the event that a safety event has occurred, which it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
One-third of the pre-tax bonus earned will be deferred into shares for a period of three years and will be subject .
The annual bonus includes provisions which enable the Remuneration Committee to recover or withhold value from any recipient of a cash or deferred bonus share award in the event of a material misstatement of results for the financial year to which the awards related, or an error in determining the size of a bonus, within three years of the payment of the cash bonus or the vesting of the deferred bonus shares.
The Remuneration Committee may also recover or withhold value from any recipient of an award of deferred bonus shares in situations where the individual is considered to have contributed to any safety failure which could result in reputational damage for the Business.
LTIP AWARDS IN RELATION TO THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR We intend to make an award to the Chief Executive of 250% of salary and to the Chief Financial Officer of 200% of salary in respect of the 2018 financial year.
Carolyn McCall will not participate in the LTIP for the 2018 financial year.
In order to provide a balance between growth and returns that reflects our financial goals the Committee is seeking feedback from major shareholders and shareholder advisory groups on the introduction of an EPS measure to operate alongside the current ROCE and TSR measures in the LTIP.
The finalised targets will be fully disclosed at the earliest opportunity.
A post-vesting holding period requiring the Executive Directors to retain the after tax value of any shares for two years from the vesting date will continue to apply to awards made in the 2018 financialyear.
76 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 The table below sets out the amounts earned by the Directors 000 Audited 2017 2016 Fees and Fees and Buy 5 6 7 8 9 10 000 Salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Salary out Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Executive Carolyn McCall DBE 706 2 49 757 704 5 189 506 49 1,453 Andrew Findlay 453 2 528 84 28 1,095 423 612 42 155 30 1,262 Non-Executive John Barton 300 300 300 300 Charles Gurassa 100 100 100 100 Adle Anderson 75 75 77 77 Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 75 75 60 60 1 John Browett 15 15 2 Chris Browne OBE 54 54 Keith Hamill OBE 60 60 60 60 Andy Martin 70 70 68 68 3 Moya Greene 12 12 4 Franois Rubichon 48 48 60 60 Total 1,899 4 528 84 77 2,592 1,921 612 47 344 506 79 3,509 1 Left the Board on 31 December 2015.
2 Left the Board on 30 September 2016.
3 Appointed to the Board on 19 July 2017.
5 Benefits relate to the cost to the Business of personal accident and life assurance cover and the value of shares during the year under the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Andrew Findlays financial year 2016 benefits also included a one-off relocation allowance payment of 40,000.
6 One-third of the bonus will be compulsorily deferred into shares for three years and subject to forfeiture.
7 This relates to the LTIP awards granted on recruitment in November 2015 which vest in December 2017 based on performance measured to 30 September 2017.
For the purposes of this table, the award has been valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2017 of 12.695.
This compares to 17.14 at grant.
8 Carolyn McCall has reached her lifetime pension limit and received a cash alternative of 49,392 in lieu of pension contributions.
9 Performance related buy-out arrangements were agreed to compensate Andrew Findlay for bonus and LTIP forfeited from his previous employer.
The buy-out comprised a 311,837 cash pay-out as well as various share awards see page 80 for details.
Of these share awards, 22,762 plus 1,248 dividend equivalent awards vested on 7 August 2016: the share price at the vesting date was 10.35.
A further 4,680 awards plus 257 dividend equivalent awards vested on 17 December 2016 based on performance measured to 30 September 2016.
For the purposes of the table in last years report, the award was valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2016 of 10.781.
The value has been updated in this table to reflect using the share price at the date of vesting of 10.43.
10 This relates to the LTIP awards granted in December 2013 which vested in December 2016 based on performance measured to 30 September 2016.
For the purposes of the table in last years report, the awards were valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2016 of 10.781.
This compares to 14.99 at grant.
ANNUAL BONUS OUTTURN FOR PERFORMANCE IN THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED Measure CEO CFO Threshold On-Target Maximum Actual Payout 1 Headline profit before tax m 70% 60% 359 398 457 433 80% 2 On-time performance 10% 10% 77% 78.5% 80% 76% 0% 3 Customer satisfaction targets 10% 10% 72% 73.5% 75% 71% 0% 1 Headline cost per seat ex.
fuel 10% 10% 40.88 40.61 40.07 40.20 88% 4 Departmental objectives 10% n a Successful Outstanding Outstanding 100% 1 At budgeted constant currency.
2 On-time performance measures the percentage of arrivals within 15 minutes of scheduled time, subject to flying 99.5% of programme excluding cancellations made 14 days in advance which do not attract EU compensation and those which affect the whole airline sector e. g. terrorist disruption.
3 Customer satisfaction measures the percentage of our passengers that are Quite satisfied, Very satisfied or Completely satisfied at last contact.
4 An outstanding performance assessment has been awarded to Andrew Findlay to recognise his performance against the departmental objectives set at the outset of the year.
Specifically, these relate to a number of projects designed to maintain the strength of the balance sheet and progress on various strategic, M&A, commercial and organistational change projects.
The payout awarded was therefore at the maximum for this element of bonus 17.5% of salary.
com Directors remuneration report continued A sliding scale of financial and operational targets for each objective was set at the start of the 2017 financial year.
10% of each element is payable for achieving the threshold target, increasing to 50% for on-target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Achievements between these points are calculated on a straight-line basis.
Despite continued challenging business conditions during the year financial performance headline profit before tax and headline cost per seat was ahead of target but below the maximum level of performance set by the Committee at the outset of the year.
In contrast, given a number of external factors including rising congestion in key airports, OTP and CSAT performance did not achieve the threshold required to trigger a bonus.
In recognition of the performance of the Chief Financial Officer against a range of personal and departmental objectives, the Committee decided to make a maximum payment to the Chief Financial Officer for this element of bonus.
In total, therefore, 67% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the Chief Financial Officer in respect of performance for the year ended 30 September 2017 resulting in a bonus payment of 528,344.
One-third of the bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
As noted earlier in this report Carolyn McCall will no longer be eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the 2017 financial year or the 2018 financial year.
The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in light of the level of performance achieved.
LTIP AUDITED The awards vesting in respect of the performance period to 30 September 2017 were subject to a combination of average ROCE including lease adjustments and relative TSR compared to FTSE 31-130 companies performance conditions measured over the three financial years ended 30 September 2017.
The percentage which could be earned was determined using the following vesting schedule: Below threshold Threshold On Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total awards Below 15% 15% 18.2% 20% or above TSR awards 50% of total awards Below median Median Upper Quartile Three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments to 30 September 2017 was 16.2% and the Company did not meet the threshold TSR performance target.
In the case of the Chief Financial Officer, this will result in 15.3% of the maximum LTIP award vesting in December 2017, subject to continued service.
The LTIP awards made to Carolyn McCall in December 2014 have lapsed.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AND PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments for loss of office or to past Directors have been made during the year.
78 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE AWARDS OUTSTANDING AT THE FINANCIAL YEAR END AUDITED Details of share options and share awards outstanding at the financial year end are shown in the following tables: CAROLYN MCCALL DBE Date No.
of shares Shares Shares Shares No.
Key: A Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares B Long Term Incentive Plan Matching Shares C Share Incentive Plan Performance Free Shares D Share Incentive Plan Matching Shares E Save As You Earn Awards SAYE Note 1: The number of shares is calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior to grant.
As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the Committee in advance of the award by reference to the share price following announcement of the half year results.
Note 2: For LTIP awards made in December 2012, 50% of vesting was based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2015.
This was the first award where ROCE calculations included operating leases and this is the basis for all subsequent awards.
50% of vesting was based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
Three year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 20.0% and the Company was ranked at the 94th percentile versus FTSE 51-150 companies in terms of TSR: correspondingly 100% of these awards vested in December 2015.
The following targets applied for these awards: 79 www.
com Directors remuneration report continued Below threshold Threshold Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 12.0% 12.0% 16.0% Upper TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median quartile Note 3: LTIP awards made in December 2013 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2016 and 50% of vesting is based on relative TSRperformance compared to companiesranked FTSE 51-150.
Three year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 19.1% and the Company did not meet the TSR performance metric.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.5% 20.0% Upper TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a quartile Note 4: LTIP awards made in December 2014 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2017 and 50% of vesting is based on relative TSRperformance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
Three year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 16.2% and the Company did not meet the TSR performance metric.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.2% 20.0% Upper TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a quartile Note 5: LTIP awards made in December 2015 70% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2018 and 30% of vesting is based on relative TSRperformance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 70% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.0% 20.0% Upper TSR awards 30% of total award Median Median n a quartile Note 6: LTIP awards made in December 2016 70% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2019 and 30% of vesting is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum Vesting in December 2019 0% vesting 25% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 70% of total award 9.0% 9.0% 11.2% 13.0% Upper TSR awards 30% of total award Median Median n a quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
The face value of the awards granted was 1,763,995 250% of salary to Carolyn McCall and 924,995 200% of salary to Andrew Findlay.
Note 7: An award of 22,762 easyJet shares was made to compensate Andrew Findlay for the forfeiture of the LTIP award he was awarded in August 2013 from his previous employer.
Since around two-thirds of the vesting period for this award had already run its course, the Committee assessed the extent to which the performance targets werelikely to be met based on current market forecasts in respect of the shares comprising two-thirds of the award and converted this number of shares into an equivalent value of easyJet shares on joining.
These vested on 7 August 2016, so as to mirror the original time horizon of the award.
Note 8: An award of 14,625 easyJet shares relating to the forfeiture of the LTIP Andrew Findlay was awarded in August 2013 from his previous employer.
Thisaward was calculated based on the value of one-third of the award at the time of joining easyJet, but these shares will only vest to the extent that the performance targets set for the 2013 easyJet LTIP award as provided in Note 3 above are met and continued employment to 17 December 2016.
This compensation replicated the assessed value of the awards forfeit and also, in part, switched into easyJet performance on a pro-rata basis for part oftheaward.
Note 9: An award of 39,923 easyJet shares was made to compensate for the forfeiture of the award granted to Andrew Findlay in August 2014 from his previous employer.
This award comprised an exchange of the maximum number of shares that could vest under his previous employers award which were then converted to easyJet shares on joining.
These shares will only vest based on the extent to which the performance targets applying to the 2014 easyJet LTIP award as provided inNote 4 above are met and Andrew remaining in employment until 19 December 2017, being the ordinary vesting date for the easyJet award and later than the vesting date of the original award at his former employer.
Note 10: Participants buy Partnership Shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company provides one Matching Share for each Partnership Share purchased, up to the first 1,500 per year.
These Matching Shares are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
80 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR The shareholding guidelines will continue to operate on broadly the same basis as last year, i. e. the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are expected to build up a shareholding of 200% and 175% of salary, respectively over the first five years from appointment to the Board.
Until the guideline is met Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of net vested shares from the LTIP and 100% of net vested deferred bonus shares.
Similarly, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, are required to build up a shareholding of 100% of annual fees over a period of three years from appointment.
DIRECTORS CURRENT SHAREHOLDINGS AND INTERESTS IN SHARES The following table provides details on the Directors shareholdings and interests in shares as at 30 September 2017, or on leaving theBoard if earlier Audited : Unconditionally Shareholding Interests in share schemes owned guidelines Deferred 2 3 5 8 6 7 shares achieved bonus SAYE LTIP SIP Total John Barton 34,000 100% Charles Gurassa 18,198 100% 4 Carolyn McCall DBE 511,559 100% 20,960 947 21,907 Andrew Findlay 16,848 30% 4,985 1,608 178,229 224 185,046 Adle Anderson 5,114 100% Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 5,251 100% Keith Hamill OBE 4,560 100% Andy Martin 7,000 100% Moya Greene 7,407 100% 1 Franois Rubichon 3,465 100% 1 Left the Board on 22 July 2017.
100% of the shareholding guideline had been achieved on the date Franois Rubichon left the Board.
2 Includes SIP Partnership Shares, vested SIP Performance Free Shares, vested SIP Matching Shares, LTIP Investment Shares, and any shares owned by connected persons regardless of changes in share price.
3 Based on unconditionally owned shares and post tax value of share interests under the deferred bonus plan as per the Committees policy on shareholding guidelines.
4 Outstanding awards under the LTIP, deferred bonus plan and SIP have lapsed following the Chief Executives resignation in July 2017.
5 Deferred bonus shares outstanding beyond the Chief Executives departure date have lapsed due to her resignation in July 2017.
Andrew Findlays deferred bonus figure includes 4,985 awards granted in the year.
6 LTIP shares are granted in the form of nil cost options subject to performance.
Andrew Findlays LTIP figure includes 88,686 awards granted in the year.
7 Consists of unvested SIP Performance Free Shares and unvested SIP Matching Shares.
8 Carolyn McCall has 947 SAYE options which are currently exercisable up until 31 January 2018 at an option price of 13.30.
As at 20 November 2017, the unconditionally owned shares of Carolyn McCall had increased by 40 shares since 30 September 2017 to 511,599 shares and the unconditionally owned shares of Andrew Findlay hadincreased by 146 shares since 30 September 2017 to 16,994 shares.
Changes made throughout the year may be found on our corporate website, http: corporate.
com Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the easyJet Share Incentive Plan and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust.
At 30 September 2017, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Number easyJet Share Incentive Plan Trust 1,322,662 easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust 101,466 Total 1,424,128 POSITION AGAINST DILUTION LIMITS easyJet complies with the Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration with regard to dilution limits.
These principles require that commitments under all of the Companys share incentive schemes must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital in any rolling 10 year period.
Share awards under all current share incentive schemes LTIP, Save As you Earn and Share Incentive Plan will be satisfied with share purchases on the market and the Companys current position against its dilution limit is within the maximum 10% limit.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLAN PARTICIPATION A key component of easyJets reward philosophy is to provide share ownership opportunities throughout the Group by making annual awards of performance-related shares to all eligible employees.
In addition, easyJet operates a voluntary discounted share purchase arrangement for all employees via a Save As You Earn scheme and a Buy As Your Earn arrangement with matching shares in the UK under the tax approved Share Incentive Plan.
com Directors remuneration report continued DETAILS OF DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as at 30 September 2017 for Directors are as follows: Unexpired term at Date of appointment Date of current service contract 30 September 2017 John Barton 1 May 2013 1 May 2016 Letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors Charles Gurassa 27 June 2011 19 June 2017 do not contain fixed term periods: Carolyn McCall DBE 1 July 2010 1 July 2010 however, they areappointed in Andrew Findlay 2 October 2015 10 April 2015 the expectation that they will serve Adle Anderson 1 September 2011 19 July 2017 for a maximum of nine years, Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 22 July 2014 19 July 2017 subject to satisfactory Moya Greene 19 July 2017 19 July 2017 performanceand re-election Andy Martin 1 September 2011 19 July 2017 at AGMs.
Keith Hamill OBE 1 March 2009 3 March 2015 Stepping down REVIEW OF PAST PERFORMANCE The chart below sets out the TSRperformance of the Company relative to the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 and a group of European i airlines since 2008.
The FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were chosen as easyJet has been a member of both indices during the period.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 30 Sep 2008 30 Sep 2009 30 Sep 2010 30 Sep 2011 30 Sep 2012 30 Sep 2013 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2016 30 Sep 2017 easyJet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Comparator Airlines This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2017, of 100 invested in easyJet on 30 September 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices or a comparator group of airlines on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends overseas companies have been tracked in their local currency, i. e. ignoring exchange rate movements since 30 September 2008. i British Airways, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have all been included in the comparative European Airlines group.
British Airways and Iberia have been tracked forward from 2011 onwards as IAG.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same tenyear period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP vesting percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2 Includes 266,899 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price is 17.15 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 133% on the share price at grant of 7.37.
3 Includes 445,575 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price was 16.71 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 325% on the share price at grant of 3.928.
4 Includes remuneration for the current Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall, of 178,000 and for the former Chief Executive of 2,563,000.
82 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY FOR THE YEAR IN COMPARISON TO THAT FOR EASYJET EMPLOYEES The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 for the Chief Executive, compared to the average earnings of all other easyJet UK employees.
Annual 2 3 % Salary Benefits bonus Chief Executive 0% 63% n a 1 Average pay based on all easyJets UK employees 1% 67% 215% 1 UK employees are presented as the comparator as their salaries and benefits represent the most appropriate comparison.
Note that UK employees comprise over 60% of total employees.
2 Benefits received in the year to 30 September 2017 fell against prior year levels as no SIP Performance Free Share award was granted in the current year.
3 The Chief Executive will not receive a bonus in respect of the year to 30 September 2017.
UK employee bonuses increased by 215% compared with last year as a result of easyJets performance against its financial targets in the current year.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the total pay for all of easyJets employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2017 2016 Change restated % Employee costs m 717 604 19% Ordinary dividend m 162 214 24% Average number of employees 11,628 10,273 13% Revenue m 5,047 4,669 8% Headline profit before tax m 408 494 17% Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and profit has been provided for context.
The majority of easyJets employees around 94% perform flight and ground operations, with the rest performing administrative and managerial roles.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Carolyn McCall DBE received fees of 80,000 in the year to 30 September 2017 for her role as Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc.
Andrew Findlay received fees of 16,667 in the year to 30 September 2017 for his role as Non-Executive Director of Rightmove plc.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS VOTING AT THE 2017 AGM Votes cast at the AGM in February 2017 in respect of the Companys Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Annual Report on Remuneration are given in the table below.
The next vote is scheduled for February 2018.
com Directors remuneration report continued SHAREHOLDERS AGM VOTING HISTORY % 100 75 50 25 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Policy Report Annual Statement by the Chairman no votes at the 2013, 2016 and 2017 AGMs of the Remuneration Committee and Annual Report on Remuneration ADVISORS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is advised by New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by the Committee in 2004 following a tender process.
NBS advises the Committee on developments in executive pay and on the operation of easyJets incentive plans.
Other than to the Committee, NBS also provides some associated advice to easyJet in relation to, for example, legal implementation and the fees of the Non-Executive Directors.
Other than the provision of these services, NBS has no other connection with the Company.
However, a sister company in the Aon group also provides pension and flexible benefits administration services to the Company.
Total fees excluding VAT paid to NBS in respect of services to the Committee during the 2017 financial year were 136,490, charged on a time and materials basis.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice received is governed by that code.
The Committee has reviewed the operating processes in place at NBS and is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.
84 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2017
