Governance Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder, As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Groups Directors remuneration report, including details of the Directors and Non-Executive Directors pay, for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Our Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in 2017 and no changes to the policy are proposed for 2018.
This statement and the accompanying report demonstrate the framework in which decisions have been made, the outcomes for the 2017 performance year and how the Committee plans to approach the year ahead.
2017 review Overall, 2017 has been a very strong year and the Group has maintained momentum in delivering against its strategic priorities.
These priorities and commitments remain unchanged, providing sustainable customer growth, efficiency and capital optimisation delivered by a strong customer-focused culture, all within a The Committee continues to framework of prudent risk management and governance.
This ensure the Groups remuneration purpose is once again reflected in our remuneration arrangements arrangements support delivery and is supported by the implementation of our remuneration of its strategic priorities for 2018 policy for 2018 and onwards.
Underlying profit is up 33% year on year and 15% ahead of the target.
Underlying CIR has improved by 7% from 74% to 67% notwithstanding the additional costs associated with our first full year since the IPO.
Overall underlying costs for the year of 675m were below our target of 690m700m.
Balance sheet growth continued based on a prudent risk appetite with customer loans increasing by 6.0% as mortgage balances increased by 7.5% and core SME balances grew by 5.9%.
Following the success of the demerger and IPO, we embarked on a programme of significant transformation.
That activity has been far reaching and had a personal impact on many colleagues.
2017 saw our colleague engagement fall to 72%, a decrease of 7%.
When compared with a score of 79% last year, the results show a decline across a number of categories.
When we compare ourselves to other organisations going through similar levels of transformation known as the Transitional Companies norm, our engagement is more in line with this norm and significantly ahead on half of the survey categories.
In fact despite the overall decline, many of our scores remain strong.
As detailed in the Annual report on remuneration, the substantial majority of both financial and non-financial targets set by the Committee for the 2017 bonus were exceeded.
However, as the customer metric NPS and colleague engagement scores underperformed the Committee exercised their discretion to reduce the element of bonus linked to business performance and therefore determined that a bonus of 82% of salary be paid to the Chief Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and Chief Operating Officer COO.
94 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The Group has also devoted significant effort into enhancing its The new LTIP award for our executives, awarded in respect of credibility and relationships with key external stakeholders across performance in the financial year ended 30 September 2017, is the business, regulatory and government spectrum.
subject to a three-year performance period 1 October 2017 to 30 September 2020 and a three to seven year deferral period.
Considerations for the year ahead This ensures a significant proportion of Executive Directors The Committee will continue to operate within the existing remuneration continues to be deferred.
This, together with the approved Directors remuneration policy in 2018 and will continue fact that a large proportion of short-term incentive is deferred to focus on ensuring the remuneration policy remains in line with and delivered in shares, ensures that Executive Directors the market and compliant with regulatory requirements.
Our remuneration is aligned with the achievement of our long-term continuing strategy will align the interests of the Executive strategy and the long-term interests of shareholders.
Details of Directors and shareholders.
Given the continuing uncertainty over the performance measures and targets for the LTIP award to be the exit of the UK from the EU, the unexpected outcome of the granted in respect of 2017 are provided on page 111.
June general election for the UK Government and the relatively Details of the performance measures for the 2018 annual high inflation figures in comparison with previous years, the incentive bonus are detailed on page 108.
However, for reasons Committee will also focus on ensuring the Group is able to attract, of commercial sensitivity, the specific targets for each measure will retain and motivate key talent at all levels of the organisation, in a not be disclosed until the end of the 2018 performance period, challenging market.
when performance against the targets will also be disclosed.
Working within the policy framework, the Committee has undertaken a review of the Groups remuneration arrangements Consideration of shareholders views and in particular the performance measures of our incentive plans Shareholders have an essential role to play in guiding responsible pay practices.
The Committee received feedback from our major to ensure they are aligned with the Groups business strategy and shareholders ahead of the 2017 AGM, and took account of these reward for the delivery of key strategic objectives.
views when formulating the final development of our policy, which was reflected in the high levels of support for resolutions relating Executive Directors salaries to remuneration.
It is the Committees intent that Executive Director salary increases remain aligned to those applied to colleagues generally On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to recommend this statement across the Group.
However, as per our remuneration policy, the to shareholders, ahead of the 2018 AGM.
committee reserves the right to provide increases that are greater than those applied across the Group where there is a strong rationale to do so.
As last year, the CEO and COO salaries will remain unchanged in 2018.
The CFOs salary will increase by 8.75% to 500,000 from 1 October 2017.
This change reflects the new status of the role as Adrian Grace a FTSE 250 PLC CFO and the importance of the role in driving Chair, Remuneration Committee the performance of the business.
Pay and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Group were taken into account when considering these outcomes.
Building an improved colleague proposition across CYBG has been This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 a key area of focus in 2017 and improvements have included to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups consolidated pay increases, enhanced defined contribution pension Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in provision and the introduction of a flexible benefits account worth 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code up to 5% capped at 2,500 of salary from 1 January 2018 for all the Code and the Listing Rules.
Variable pay The Committee will set appropriate and stretching annual variable On behalf of the Board reward targets for the year ahead based on the Groups key financial, risk, customer and culture objectives.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to providing transparency in decision making in respect of the Groups incentive plans.
It will disclose targets and measures: together with information relating to performance against those targets within the Annual report on Adrian Grace remuneration for the relevant year, except to the extent that the Chair, Remuneration Committee Board deem these to be commercially sensitive, in which case it will 20 November 2017 disclose this information once it is deemed not to be sensitive.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95
