Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee In the context of a year of strong performance and overall growth, the Committee still faced some tough decisions on the remuneration of our senior executives.
We have maintained the integrity of our remuneration policy, which we regard as key to driving superior levels of performance linked to strategic business goals.
Remuneration Committee membership: Drummond Hall, Chairman Inna Kuznetsova until 28 February 2017 Donald Brydon until 28 February 2017 Ruth Markland until 28 February 2017 Neil Berkett Cath Keers from 1 July 2017 Jonathan Howell Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee this underpin.
As a result, the Committee took the decision not to pay Dear fellow shareholder, bonus on financial measures despite a year of strong performance overall.
It is my pleasure to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the Whilst this was a tough decision, it maintains the integrity of our year ended 30 September 2017. remuneration policy and its link to our guiding principle of high performance against strategic business goals.
The Executive Directors We aim to be entirely transparent in our remuneration practices and achieved their strategic objectives, which led to 19% of the maximum provide shareholders with the information needed to make informed bonus paying out for the Chief Executive Ocer and 19% for the Chief decisions about our company.
We are proposing no changes to our policy Financial Ocer.
More details on the bonus outcome are set out on for FY18.
Our guiding principle continues to be one of developing a high page 93. performance culture through clear linkage of individuals remuneration to our strategic business KPIs.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2015 were based on organic revenue growth, earnings per share growth and relative TSR Objectives and responsibilities performance measured over the three-year period to 30 September 2017.
Our main objective is to determine the framework, broad policy and levels Overall, the Committee determined that 66.1% of the maximum number of of remuneration for the Groups Chief Executive Ocer, the Groups Chief shares under award will vest in January 2018.
Further detail is set Financial Ocer, the Chairman of the Company and other executives as out on page 94. deemed appropriate.
This framework includes, but is not limited to, establishing stretching performance-related elements of reward and is Looking forward to FY18 intended to promote the long-term success of the Company.
We achieve The Committee has introduced a two-year holding period for PSP awards this through: granted to Executive Directors from FY18.
The holding period will apply upon vesting of the awards.
Providing recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on Sages framework of executive remuneration We have adjusted the PSP targets to reflect the updated definition of Determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benets for organic revenue which includes Intacct and Fairsail Sage People from each of the Executive Directors, including performance share awards, FY18.
The adjustments also apply to awards granted in FY16 and FY17, performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation reflecting the extent to which the revised definition of organic measures payments will contribute to performance over each three-year period.
We believe this provides the right incentive for management to consider the performance Monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Board level of the acquired businesses and facilitates the comparison of long-term Approving share awards performance to reported actuals as well as maintaining appropriate levels Key remuneration outcomes for FY17 of stretch in targets.
The Committee is satisfied that the adjusted targets The 2017 bonus was based on organic revenue growth and the satisfaction are materially neither easier nor more difficult to achieve.
More information of underpins relating to underlying operating margin and recurring is set out on page 95. revenue growth 80% of bonus and personal strategic measures 20%.
For Finally, I look forward to engaging with our shareholders on behalf of the year ended 30 September 2017, organic revenues grew 6.6%, which the Board in a review of our remuneration policy before it is submitted continues the recent growth trend of the business, and margin was 27%, to a binding shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM, when our current satisfying market guidance issued at the beginning of the year.
recurring revenue growth at 9% fell short of the stretching target we set for 84 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 82 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee meetings held in FY17 No one other than a member of the Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Ocer may attend meetings as required, except where his own performance or remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least four times per year.
During this financial year, the Committee met seven times, where it discussed the following key matters: November February 2016 2017 Remuneration Committee membership: Drummond Hall, Chairman Inna Kuznetsova until 28 February 2017 Donald Brydon until 28 FY16 year-end review Review of trends in executive remuneration February 2017 Ruth Markland until 28 February 2017 Neil Berkett Approved share awards for FY17 Reviewed remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments Cath Keers from 1 July 2017 Jonathan Howell Reviewed the performance of the Group for the year, and the performance of the Executive Directors in order to determine Drummond Hall bonus outcomes Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Reviewed the long-term performance of the Group over the last three years in order this underpin.
As a result, the Committee took the decision not to pay Dear fellow shareholder, to determine vesting levels for the PSP bonus on financial measures despite a year of strong performance overall.
It is my pleasure to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the granted in 2014 Whilst this was a tough decision, it maintains the integrity of our year ended 30 September 2017.
Set Executive Directors salaries for 2017 remuneration policy and its link to our guiding principle of high performance against strategic business goals.
The Executive Directors We aim to be entirely transparent in our remuneration practices and Approved the Directors Remuneration Report achieved their strategic objectives, which led to 19% of the maximum provide shareholders with the information needed to make informed bonus paying out for the Chief Executive Ocer and 19% for the Chief decisions about our company.
Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2015 were based on April July September organic revenue growth, earnings per share growth and relative TSR 2017 2017 2017 Objectives and responsibilities performance measured over the three-year period to 30 September 2017.
This framework includes, but is not limited to, Consideration of the views of our FY17 progress review FY18 planning shareholders establishing stretching performance-related elements of reward and is Looking forward to FY18 Reviewed the Companys progress against Approved the Executive Directors incentive intended to promote the long-term success of the Company.
We achieve The Committee has introduced a two-year holding period for PSP awards Reviewed the feedback of our shareholders incentive performance metrics for in-flight plan structures and targets for FY18 this through: granted to Executive Directors from FY18.
The holding period will apply in the run up to the AGM and assessed their plans including the adjustment of PSP targets to upon vesting of the awards.
voting and the appropriateness of our reflect the impact of the acquisitions of Providing recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of FY18 planning remuneration policy and Intacct and Sage People reference, on Sages framework of executive remuneration We have adjusted the PSP targets to reflect the updated definition of Reviewed the Committees terms implementation principles Approved the introduction of a two-year Determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benets for organic revenue which includes Intacct and Fairsail Sage People from of reference each of the Executive Directors, including performance share awards, holding period for Executive Directors FY18.
The adjustments also apply to awards granted in FY16 and FY17, Reviewed incentive plan structure PSP awards performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation reflecting the extent to which the revised definition of organic measures and targets for FY18 payments will contribute to performance over each three-year period.
We believe this Appointing executive talent Acquisition provides the right incentive for management to consider the performance Monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Board level Approved the remuneration package for the of the acquired businesses and facilitates the comparison of long-term Approving share awards Adopted the Sage Share Option Plan for the Chief Product Delivery Officer performance to reported actuals as well as maintaining appropriate levels Intacct acquisition and agreed the terms of Key remuneration outcomes for FY17 of stretch in targets.
The Committee is satisfied that the adjusted targets the rollover of unvested share options The 2017 bonus was based on organic revenue growth and the satisfaction are materially neither easier nor more difficult to achieve.
recurring revenue growth at 9% fell short of the stretching target we set for The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 85 82 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration at a glance Remuneration at a glance This section provides a high-level introduction to remuneration at Sage.
Further details can be found within the report at the noted page.
Attract and Motivate and Retain Reward Remuneration principles Alignment with the Alignment with wider Group shareholders The key elements of our remuneration policy are summarised below.
Element of Remuneration Application of Element Application of Element Policy Purpose in FY18 for CEO in FY18 for CFO Base salary Enables Sage to attract and retain Executive Directors of the calibre 810,000 0% increase 522,000 0% increase required to deliver the Groups strategy Pension Provides a competitive post-retirement benefit, in a way that 25% of base salary 25% of base salary manages the overall cost to the Company Benefits Provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package to Car allowance, medical Car allowance, medical executives to assist them in carrying out their insurance, costs of travel, insurance, costs of travel, duties effectively accommodation and accommodation and subsistence for the Directors subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sageand their partners on Sagerelated business if required related business if required Annual bonus Rewards and incentivises the achievement of annual financial and Maximum 125% of Maximum 125% of strategic targets base salary base salary A minimum of one-third deferral into shares is compulsory, with the remainder delivered in cash Performance Share Supports achievement of our strategy by targeting performance Face value of 250% of Face value of 250% of Plan PSP under our key financial performance indicators.
Vesting is after three base salary base salary years, and awards are subject on vesting to a holding period for two years before being released All-employee share Provides an opportunity for Directors to voluntarily invest Eligible to participate up to Eligible to participate up plans in the Company the tax-efficient limit of 500 to the tax-efficient limit per month of 500 per month Chairman and nonProvide an appropriate reward to attract and retain See page 99 of this report for a list Executive Director high-calibre individuals of non-Executive Director fees fees Shareholding The shareholding requirement for Directors is 200% of base salary Shareholding at Shareholding at guidelines and achievement of this is expected within a maximum of five years 30 September 2017 30 September 2017 from the time the Director became subject to the policy is 219% of base salary is 227% of base salary 86 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 84 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Delivering our remuneration principles in 2018 Remuneration at a glance Our remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, underpins the delivery of these four key remuneration principles.
At the heart of this policy is a relatively straightforward remuneration arrangement for our most senior executives comprising base salary and benets, an annual bonus plan and a long-term incentive plan the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Our remuneration principles Delivering our remuneration principles in 2018 This section provides a high-level introduction to remuneration at Sage.
Attract and retain No changes are proposed in 2018 to our maximum level of performance-related pay under either the annual bonus plan or the PSP.
We oer competitive rates of pay and benets to attract and retain the best The CEO and CFO will not receive a salary increase in 2018. people in a competitive international market which includes private-equity backed organisations as well as listed companies.
2018 annual bonus Motivate and reward As outlined in the Strategic Report, organic revenue growth remains the key strategic measure of Remuneration at Sage is designed to create performance during the coming year and the Committee has therefore determined that in 2018 the a strong performance-oriented environment key bonus measure shall continue to be Group organic revenue growth 80% of overall bonus.
This for the taking of appropriate risks and measure aligns to the updated definition of organic revenue growth as detailed on page 34.
Strategic rewards achievement of our Company 1 measures continue to be linked to executives VSGM goals, which are derived from the process strategy and business objectives.
explained in the 2016 Strategic Report on page 27, and make up the remaining 20% of bonus.
Payout under the organic revenue growth measure will be dependent upon the satisfaction of two underpin conditions which are unchanged from 2017: the first based on underlying operating profit margin, to protect our profitability, and the second, recurring revenue growth, to drive our movement to a highquality subscription model.
Recurring revenue growth continues to be one of the two main measures under the PSP.
2018 PSP awards There are no changes to the performance measures for PSP awards.
An adjustment to the targets to reflect acquisitions during financial year 2017 has been made: this is explained in further detail on pages 95 and 99.
The PSP operates as follows: Half of the 2018 PSP award will be subject to a performance measure based on relative TSR performance.
This measure will help to ensure managements continued focus on overall The key elements of our remuneration policy are summarised below.
Group growth and delivery of shareholder value.
Element of Remuneration Application of Element Application of Element Half of the 2018 PSP award will be subject to a performance measure based on recurring revenue Policy Purpose in FY18 for CEO in FY18 for CFO growth.
This continues the close alignment with our medium-term strategic priorities, to grow our subscription-based services and acquire new customers.
Base salary Enables Sage to attract and retain Executive Directors of the calibre 810,000 0% increase 522,000 0% increase For any of the recurring revenue growth element of the 2018 PSP award to vest, two underpin required to deliver the Groups strategy performance conditions based on EPS growth and organic revenue growth will also need to Pension Provides a competitive post-retirement benefit, in a way that 25% of base salary 25% of base salary be achieved.
manages the overall cost to the Company Alignment with the wider Group The remuneration policy for executives reects the overriding remuneration philosophy and Benefits Provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package to Car allowance, medical Car allowance, medical principles of the wider Group, including but not limited to the principles on which salaries are Pay and employment conditions elsewhere executives to assist them in carrying out their insurance, costs of travel, insurance, costs of travel, reviewed and the structure of performance-related incentive plans.
Details of pay arrangements for in the Group are considered when duties effectively accommodation and accommodation and Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 103. determining executive base salary and subsistence for the Directors subsistence for the Directors bonus reviews.
and their partners on Sageand their partners on SageAlignment with shareholders Our existing pay structure for Executive Directors and other senior management is heavily weighted related business if required related business if required towards share-based performance-related pay which is designed to align executive and shareholder The interests of our senior management interests.
The following practices will continue in 2018: Annual bonus Rewards and incentivises the achievement of annual financial and Maximum 125% of Maximum 125% of team are aligned with those of shareholders strategic targets base salary base salary by having a significant proportion of Malus clawback remuneration performance-based and A minimum of one-third deferral into shares is compulsory, with the All incentives awarded to Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are subject to delivered through shares, together with a remainder delivered in cash malus and clawback provisions.
Details of the implementation of those provisions are set out in the significant shareholding requirement.
Directors Annual Remuneration Report and policy.
Performance Share Supports achievement of our strategy by targeting performance Face value of 250% of Face value of 250% of Plan PSP under our key financial performance indicators.
Vesting is after three base salary base salary Compulsory bonus deferral years, and awards are subject on vesting to a holding period for two All Executive Directors are compulsorily required to defer one-third of their bonus into Sage shares.
years before being released The deferral period is three years with effect from 2018, as approved by shareholders in the 2016 AGM.
All-employee share Provides an opportunity for Directors to voluntarily invest Eligible to participate up to Eligible to participate up Shareholding requirement plans in the Company the tax-efficient limit of 500 to the tax-efficient limit The shareholding requirement for Directors is 200% of base salary and Directors are expected to per month of 500 per month achieve the guideline within a maximum period of five years from when they first become subject to Chairman and nonProvide an appropriate reward to attract and retain See page 99 of this report for a list the guideline.
Executive Director high-calibre individuals of non-Executive Director fees Holding period fees The Committee has introduced a two-year holding period for PSP awards granted to Executive Shareholding The shareholding requirement for Directors is 200% of base salary Shareholding at Shareholding at Directors from FY18.
guidelines and achievement of this is expected within a maximum of five years 30 September 2017 30 September 2017 Note: from the time the Director became subject to the policy is 219% of base salary is 227% of base salary 1.
VSGM stands for Vision, Strategy, Goals and Measures.
Goal setting begins with the CEO and cascades down through leadership.
Senior management goals are aligned to strategic pillars and shared throughout Sage The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 87 84 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 85 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Single figure for total remuneration summary: 2017 2016 Total Total Director 000 000 Executive Directors S Kelly 3,336 1,723 1 S Hare 2,181 3,030 Non-Executive Directors D H Brydon 397 397 R Markland 31 75 N Berkett 60 60 D Hall 83 76 J Howell 77 77 I Kuznetsova 25 60 S Jiandani 35 C Keers 15 Note: 1.
The single figure total in 2016 is updated this year in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013.
For further detail, see the footnote to the Single Figure of Remuneration table on page 92 below.
Remuneration disclosure The report is in two sections: This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations The Directors remuneration policy pages 89 to 91.
2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate The Directors Annual Remuneration Report pages 92 to 103.
Governance Code April 2016 and the Listing Rules.
This section sets out details of how our existing remuneration There will be no shareholder vote for the remuneration policy and an policy was implemented for the year ended 30 September 2017 advisory vote on the Annual Remuneration Report.
and how we intend the policy to apply for the year ending 30 September 2018.
Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 88 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 86 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Remuneration policy Single figure for total remuneration summary: 2017 2016 Purpose of this section: Total Total Provides detail of the key elements of our remuneration policy Director 000 000 Executive Directors S Kelly 3,336 1,723 The current policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM and can be found on our website www.
The remuneration policy 1 S Hare 2,181 3,030 will undergo a full review during calendar year 2018 and be presented for shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration policy table D H Brydon 397 397 The table below sets out our remuneration policy.
R Markland 31 75 N Berkett 60 60 Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures D Hall 83 76 J Howell 77 77 Base salary Normally reviewed annually, with any increases applied Ordinarily, salary increases will be in None, although I Kuznetsova 25 60 from January.
line with increases awarded to other overall performance of Supports the S Jiandani 35 recruitment employees in major operating the individual is considered When determining base salary levels, consideration is C Keers 15 businesses of the Group.
by the Remuneration and retention of given to the following: Executive Directors of Committee when However, increases may be made Pay increases for other employees in major operating Note: setting and reviewing the calibre required to above this level at the Committees businesses of the Group 1.
The single figure total in 2016 is updated this year in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in salaries annually.
deliver the Groups discretion to take account of 2013.
The individuals skills and responsibilities strategy.
individual circumstances such as: Pay at companies of a similar size and international Rewards executives Increase in scope and responsibility Remuneration disclosure scope to Sage, in particular those within the FTSE 100 for the performance Increase to reect the individuals The report is in two sections: excluding the top 30 This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Mediumof their role.
development and performance in sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Corporate and individual performance The Directors remuneration policy pages 89 to 91.
Set at a level that role e. g. for a new appointment 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate allows fully exible The Directors Annual Remuneration Report pages 92 to 103. where base salary may be increased Governance Code April 2016 and the Listing Rules.
operation of This section sets out details of how our existing remuneration over time rather than set directly at our variable pay plans.
There will be no shareholder vote for the remuneration policy and an policy was implemented for the year ended 30 September 2017 the level of the previous incumbent advisory vote on the Annual Remuneration Report.
and how we intend the policy to apply for the year ending or market level 30 September 2018.
Alignment to market level Accordingly, no monetary maximum has been set.
Pension Dened contribution plan with Company contributions 25% of base salary for all None.
set as a percentage of base salary.
Provide a competitive postretirement An individual may elect to receive some or all of their No element other than base salary benefit, in a way that pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Drummond Hall manages the overall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee cost to the Company.
Benets The Group provides a range of benets which may Set at a level which the Remuneration None.
include a car benefit or cash equivalent, private medical Committee considers: Provide a competitive insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance and cost-eective Appropriately positioned against and financial advice.
benets package to comparable roles in companies of executives to assist Additional benets may also be provided in certain a similar size and complexity in the them to carry out their circumstances which may include relocation expenses, relevant market duties eectively.
housing allowance and school fees.
Other benets may Provides a sucient level of benefit be oered if considered appropriate and reasonable by based on the role and individual the Committee.
circumstances, such as relocation As the costs of providing benets will depend on a Directors individual circumstances, the Remuneration Committee has not set a monetary maximum.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 89 86 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 87 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table continued Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures 80% of the bonus will Annual bonus Measures and targets are set annually and payout levels 125% of salary.
are determined by the Remuneration Committee after the be determined by Rewards and year end based on performance against those targets.
measure s of Group incentivises the achievement of annual The Remuneration Committee may, in exceptional financial performance.
financial and strategic circumstances, amend the bonus payout should this not, 20% of the bonus will be targets.
in the view of the Committee, reect overall business based on pre-determined performance or individual contribution.
An element of financial, strategic or compulsory deferral A minimum of one-third of any annual bonus earned by operational measures provides a link to Executive Directors is delivered in deferred share awards, appropriate to the the creation of with the remainder delivered in cash.
The length of the individual Director.
sustainable deferral period will be determined by the Remuneration The measures that will apply long-term value.
Committee before the grant of an award.
for the financial year 2018 are described in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
Performance Awards vest dependent upon the achievement of Awards vest on the following basis: Performance is Share Plan PSP performance conditions measured over a period of at least assessed against two Target performance: 20% of the three years.
independently measured Motivates and rewards maximum shares awarded metrics which are equally the achievement of Following the end of the performance period, the Stretch performance: 80% of weighted: long-term business performance conditions will be assessed and the the maximum shares awarded goals.
percentage of awards that will vest will be determined.
50% recurring Exceptional performance: 100% of Supports the creation The Committee may decide that the shares in respect of revenue growth the shares awarded of shareholder value which an award vests are delivered to participants at that 50% relative TSR With straight-line vesting between through the delivery point or that awards will then be subject to an additional performance against each level of performance.
of strong market holding period before participants are entitled to receive the FTSE 100 excluding Current annual award levels in performance aligned their shares.
financial services and respect of a financial year of the with the long-term A holding period will normally last for two years, unless extracting companies Company for Executive Directors business strategy.
At its discretion, the are 250% of base salary at the time Supports achievement The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide Committee may elect to of grant.
Overall individual limit of of our strategy by whether and to what extent the performance conditions add additional underpin 300% of base salary under the rules targeting performance have been met, and if an event occurs that causes the performance conditions of the plan.
under our key financial Committee to consider that an amended or substituted to one or both of the The Committee retains the discretion performance performance condition would be more appropriate and above metrics.
to make awards up to the individual indicators.
not materially less dicult to satisfy, the Committee may Details of the targets limit under the PSP and, as stated in amend or substitute any performance condition.
that will apply for awards previous remuneration reports, would granted in 2018 are set out expect to consult with significant in the Directors Annual investors if awards were to be made Remuneration Report.
All-employee UK-based Executive Directors are entitled to participate in UK participation limits are those set None.
share plans a UK tax-approved all-employee plan, The Sage Group by the UK tax authorities from time to Savings-Related Share Option Plan, under which they time.
Currently this is 500 per month.
Provides an make monthly savings over a period of three or five years Limits for participants in overseas opportunity for linked to the grant of an option over Sage shares with an schemes are determined in line with Directors to voluntarily option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the any local legislation.
market value of shares on grant.
This scheme closed for new invitations in 2016 and a new UK tax-approved allemployee plan, The Sage Save and Share Plan, launched in May 2017.
Similar to the previous plan, Executive Directors make monthly savings over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Sage shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
An overseas-based Executive Director is entitled to participate in The Sage Save and Share Plan if operated in their jurisdiction.
90 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 88 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table continued Alignment with Alignment with strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures strategy purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Chairman and Fees are reviewed periodically.
80% of the bonus will Annual bonus Measures and targets are set annually and payout levels 125% of salary.
non-Executive Director The fee structure is as follows: Reects the commitment and contribution are determined by the Remuneration Committee after the be determined by Rewards and fees that is expected from the Chairman and The Chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee year end based on performance against those targets.
measure s of Group incentivises the Provide an appropriate reward non-Executive Directors The Non-executive Directors are paid a basic achievement of annual The Remuneration Committee may, in exceptional financial performance.
to attract and retain highIs appropriately positioned against fee, plus additional fees for chairmanship financial and strategic circumstances, amend the bonus payout should this not, 20% of the bonus will be calibre individuals.
of Board Committees and to the Senior comparable roles in companies of a similar targets.
in the view of the Committee, reect overall business based on pre-determined Non-Executive Directors size and complexity in the relevant market, Independent Director performance or individual contribution.
An element of financial, strategic or do not participate in any particularly companies of a similar size and Fees are currently paid in cash but the compulsory deferral A minimum of one-third of any annual bonus earned by incentive scheme.
operational measures international scope to Sage, in particular Company may choose to provide some provides a link to Executive Directors is delivered in deferred share awards, appropriate to the those within the FTSE 100 excluding the of the fees in shares the creation of with the remainder delivered in cash.
top 30 The Chairman has the use of a car and driver.
sustainable deferral period will be determined by the Remuneration The measures that will apply Overall fees paid to Directors will remain Non-Executive Directors may be eligible for long-term value.
for the financial year 2018 within the limit stated in our articles of benets such as company car, use of secretarial are described in the association, currently 1m.
support, healthcare or other benets that may Directors Annual Actual fee levels are disclosed in the be appropriate including where travel to the Remuneration Report.
Directors Annual Remuneration Report Companys registered oce is recognised as for the relevant financial year.
a taxable benefit, in which case a Non-executive Performance Awards vest dependent upon the achievement of Awards vest on the following basis: Performance is may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as Share Plan PSP performance conditions measured over a period of at least assessed against two Target performance: 20% of the a benefit.
independently measured Motivates and rewards maximum shares awarded metrics which are equally the achievement of Following the end of the performance period, the Stretch performance: 80% of Notes: weighted: long-term business performance conditions will be assessed and the the maximum shares awarded Annual bonus performance measures have been selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising Directors to meet profitability and other financial targets for the goals.
50% recurring Exceptional performance: 100% of year and achieve strategic operational objectives.
The measures and targets are selected every year by the Committee.
Supports the creation The Committee may decide that the shares in respect of revenue growth the shares awarded Performance Share Plan: recurring revenue growth is a key measure of the success of the execution of our long-term strategy.
TSR is considered a key measure for a number of our of shareholder value which an award vests are delivered to participants at that 50% relative TSR shareholders and provides further alignment with value created for shareholders.
With straight-line vesting between through the delivery point or that awards will then be subject to an additional performance against each level of performance.
Awards granted under the deferred bonus plan and the PSP may: of strong market holding period before participants are entitled to receive the FTSE 100 excluding Current annual award levels in a be made in the form of conditional awards or nil-cost options and may be settled in cash: performance aligned their shares.
financial services and respect of a financial year of the b incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid or payable on the shares that vest in the period up to vesting with the long-term A holding period will normally last for two years, unless extracting companies Company for Executive Directors or, where PSP awards are made subject to a holding period, the end of the holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming the dividends were reinvested in the business strategy.
At its discretion, the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: and are 250% of base salary at the time Supports achievement The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide Committee may elect to of grant.
Overall individual limit of c be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event which may, in the opinion of the of our strategy by whether and to what extent the performance conditions add additional underpin Remuneration Committee, aect the current or future value of the Companys shares.
300% of base salary under the rules targeting performance have been met, and if an event occurs that causes the performance conditions of the plan.
Provisions to withhold malus or recover clawback sums paid under the annual bonus and PSP in the event of material negative circumstances, such as material misstatement under our key financial Committee to consider that an amended or substituted to one or both of the in the Companys audited results, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss to the Company as a result of the participants misconduct, an error in assessing the The Committee retains the discretion performance performance condition would be more appropriate and performance metrics relating to the award or the participants gross misconduct, are incorporated into both the PSP and deferred bonus plan.
These provisions may apply up above metrics.
to three years from the date a PSP award vests is released or a minimum of two years from the date a cash bonus is paid or a deferred share award is granted.
While our remuneration policy follows the same principles across the Group, packages oered to employees reect dierences in market practice in the dierent countries that will apply for awards previous remuneration reports, would the Group operates in and also dierences in size of role.
granted in 2018 are set out expect to consult with significant All Directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
in the Directors Annual investors if awards were to be made Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee intends to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors on their original terms, including outstanding incentive awards, routinely above current levels.
which have been disclosed in previous remuneration reports and, where relevant, are consistent with a previous policy approved by shareholders.
Any such payments to former Directors will be set out in the Remuneration Report as and when they occur.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of oce including exercising any discretions available to it in share plans a UK tax-approved all-employee plan, The Sage Group by the UK tax authorities from time to connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Savings-Related Share Option Plan, under which they time.
Provides an Companys first remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into eect: ii before the policy set out above make monthly savings over a period of three or five years Limits for participants in overseas opportunity for came into eect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at linked to the grant of an option over Sage shares with an schemes are determined in line with a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the Directors to voluntarily individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the any local legislation.
relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
This scheme closed for The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change new invitations in 2016 and a new UK tax-approved allin legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
employee plan, The Sage Save and Share Plan, launched in May 2017.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 91 88 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 89 Directors annual remuneration report Directors annual remuneration report Purpose of this section: Provides remuneration disclosures for executive and Non-executive Directors Details financial measures for bonus and PSP Illustrates Company performance and how this compares to executive pay Outlines implementation of remuneration policy for executive and Non-executive Directors for 2018 Single gure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration for Executive Directors for the financial years ended 30 September 2016 and 2017.
Details of salary progression since 2015 for the current Executive Directors are summarised in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year on page 98.
Current fees for the Chairman and non-Executive Directors are set out on page 99.
Benets provided to the Executive Directors included: car benets or cash equivalent, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, financial advice and where deemed to be a taxable benefit, the grossed-up costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sage-related business if required.
A portion of Steve Hares benefits relate to the grossed-up cost of his travel to Sages London office which, since 1 April 2015, has been deemed a taxable benefit as a result of the enhanced amount of time he has been required to spend in London attending to Sage matters.
Donald Brydon receives a company car benefit.
2016 benefit values have been updated to reflect tax gross-ups which were not previously stated.
Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award.
Further information about how the level of 2017 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures below.
Pension emoluments for both Executive Directors were equal to 25% of base salary.
Both elected to receive them as a cash allowance.
The 2017 PSP value is based on the PSP award granted in 2015 which is due to vest in January 2018.
Both Stephen Kellys and Steve Hares awards included in the single figure table have the same performance conditions.
The value is based on the number of shares vesting in 2018 multiplied by the average price of a Sage share between 30 June and 29 September 2017 the last trading day of the year, which was 689.6p, plus dividend equivalents accrued.
49% of the value can be attributed to the increase in share price between the grant and vesting dates.
Steve Hare's 2014 PSP for 2016 has been updated.
The change in value is as a result of changes in the share price reported in 2016 in line with the methodology set out in the reporting regulations 709.2p and the share prices actually achieved at vesting 643.0p and 681.1p, and a change in the anticipated dividend equivalents payable after the end of the reporting year from 23,168 to 20,602.
Stephen Kelly did not have a 2014 PSP award.
Total remuneration for Directors in 2017 was 6,241,246 compared to 5,498,000 in 2016 updated.
92 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 90 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors annual remuneration report Additional disclosures for single gure for total remuneration table Annual bonus 2017 Purpose of this section: The bonus targets for FY17 were set by reference to the strategy for FY17, in particular the achievement of organic revenue growth taking into account Provides remuneration disclosures for executive and Non-executive Directors the Companys annual budget and consensus in determining the payout curve.
The actual target ranges for 2017 for the financial performance Details financial measures for bonus and PSP measures have not been disclosed as this is considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information, bearing in mind that many of our Illustrates Company performance and how this compares to executive pay competitors are unlisted companies who do not provide this level of disclosure.
An indication of where actual performance fell within each range is given in the table below.
Retrospective disclosure of the target ranges will be made in next years Remuneration Report once the information is no Outlines implementation of remuneration policy for executive and Non-executive Directors for 2018 longer considered commercially sensitive by the Board.
Bonus measure % Weighting Threshold Potential Performance outcome as a % of maximum bonus Single gure for total remuneration audited information Organic revenue 80 Achievement of 6.6% for FY17 which, but for the non-achievement of the The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration for Executive Directors for the financial years ended 30 September 2016 and 2017. growth recurring revenue growth underpin, would have resulted in 46% of the maximum bonus becoming payable.
The actual payout for this element was zero.
1 2 3 4 5 6 a Salary fees b Benets c Bonus d Pension e PSP awards Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Strategic measures 20 Stephen Kellys achievement of strategic objectives for FY17 led to 19% of the Director 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 see Directors maximum bonus becoming payable.
personal strategic Steve Hares achievement of strategic objectives for FY17 led to 19% of the Executive Directors objectives table below maximum bonus becoming payable.
S Kelly 805 790 52 50 194 686 201 197 2,084 3,336 1,723 Overall assessment Stephen Kelly received a bonus equal to 24% of salary 19% of the maximum.
S Hare 519 505 103 91 125 442 130 126 1,304 1,864 2,181 3,030 One-third of the total bonus was deferred into Sage shares for two years under Non-Executive Directors the compulsory bonus deferral requirement in the 2016 remuneration policy.
D H Brydon 360 360 37 37 397 397 Steve Hare received a bonus equal to 24% of salary 19% of the maximum.
OneR Markland 31 75 31 75 third of the total bonus was deferred into Sage shares for two years under the N Berkett 60 60 60 60 compulsory bonus deferral requirement in the 2016 remuneration policy.
D Hall 83 76 83 76 Note: J Howell 77 77 77 77 Organic revenue growth is dened on page 185.
Payment of a bonus for organic revenue growth was subject to the achievement of two underpin conditions: Group recurring revenue growth I Kuznetsova 25 60 25 60 and Group underlying operating margin.
The margin underpin was met, but the recurring revenue growth underpin was not, resulting in no payout for the organic revenue growth measure.
S Jiandani 35 35 C Keers 15 15 Executive Directors personal strategic objectives Executive Directors personal strategic objectives were set by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year, consistent with the key Notes: deliverables within the annual budget.
Targets for strategic objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
Details of salary progression since 2015 for the current Executive Directors are summarised in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year However, details of metrics that were taken into account by the Committee in coming to its assessment of this measure are set out below: on page 98.
Benets provided to the Executive Directors included: car benets or cash equivalent, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, financial advice Stephen Kelly, CEO and where deemed to be a taxable benefit, the grossed-up costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sage-related business if required.
Stephen Kelly was set goals on improving customer experience, building our cloud proposition, expanding our presence in the enterprise market, the A portion of Steve Hares benefits relate to the grossed-up cost of his travel to Sages London office which, since 1 April 2015, has been deemed a taxable benefit as a result of the mitigation of principal risks and achieving greater operational simplicity and efficiency.
In determining the amount of bonus payable for personal enhanced amount of time he has been required to spend in London attending to Sage matters.
2016 benefit values have been strategic objectives, the Committee took into account: updated to reflect tax gross-ups which were not previously stated.
Further information about how the level of 2017 award was determined is The improvement in Sages Net Promoter Score by 39% year-on-year provided in the additional disclosures below.
The 36% increase in Annual Contract Value ACV for Sage One and fourfold increase in average ACV for Sage Live, with revenues for Sage Live 4.
The value is based on the number of shares vesting in 2018 multiplied by the average price of a Sage share between 30 June and 29 A revenue growth rate of 21% in the Enterprise market September 2017 the last trading day of the year, which was 689.6p, plus dividend equivalents accrued.
49% of the value can be attributed to the increase in share price between the Reduction in the risk score against Sages principal risks grant and vesting dates.
A reduction in the run rate of overall G&A expense by 360 bps to below 14% of revenue, demonstrating greater efficiency in the way Sage operates.
The change in value is as a result of changes in the share price reported in 2016 in line with the methodology set out in the reporting regulations 709.2p and the share prices actually achieved at vesting 643.0p and 681.1p, and a change in the anticipated dividend equivalents payable after the end of the Overall, the Committee determined that Stephen Kellys performance had been strong and that a bonus of 19% of maximum would be payable.
Steve Hare, CFO Steve Hare was set goals on increasing operational efficiencies, making targeted acquisitions, improving Sages control environment and achieving greater simplicity and efficiency.
In determining the amount of bonus payable for personal strategic objectives, the Committee took into account: The successful establishment of finance service centres in Newcastle, Johannesburg and Atlanta, resulting in transaction processing from four countries being successfully transferred into the European Shared Service Centre and a 15% reduction in the cost of the finance function.
The completion of two cloud-related acquisitions in Sage People and Intacct whilst achieving Sages commitment to achieve 27% underlying operating margin and an acceleration in the performance of the acquired businesses under Sage ownership.
Improvement in the control environment approximately 100 key controls standardised as part of our Excellence in Controls EIC initiative.
Overall, the Committee determined that Steve Hares performance had been strong and that a bonus of 19% of maximum would be payable.
Disclosure of 2016 bonus targets The target ranges for financial measures used to determine the 2016 bonus were not disclosed in last years Annual Report & Accounts as this was considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information.
The Committees current policy of retrospective disclosure to be made after a period of one year has been applied again this year.
The table below therefore sets out the target ranges for the financial measures that were used to determine the 2016 bonus.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 93 90 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 91 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued % Threshold Target Stretch Actual % of maximum Bonus measure weighting performance performance performance performance bonus payable Recurring revenue 80% 8% 10% 11% 9.8% 53% 1 growth 24% of bonus 56% of bonus 80% of bonus payable payable payable Strategic measures 20% The assessment of strategic measures was disclosed CEO: 16% on page 90 of the 2016 Annual Report Between 2.4% CFO: 16% and 20% of bonus payable Total CEO 69% of maximum bonus 87% of salary CFO 69% of maximum bonus 87% of salary Notes: 1.
As reported in page 82 of the 2016 Annual Report, Recurring Revenue growth included processing revenue, this is dened on page 170 of the 2016 Annual Report.
Additionally, three underpins had to be achieved for any bonus relating to recurring revenue growth to pay out.
All the underpins were met: Group organic revenue growth was 6.1% satisfying the target of 6%, Group underlying operating margin was 27.2% satisfying the target of 27% and subscription growth was 34% satisfying the target of 28%.
PSP awards Awards granted under the PSP in 2015 excluding Stephen Kellys recruitment award, which vests in 2021 vest depending on performance against three equally weighted measures, measured over three years, from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2017: One-third organic revenue growth with a margin underpin One-third EPS growth One-third relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding financial services and extracting companies For each measure, three levels of performance are dened below, with straight-line vesting between each level of performance: target, stretch and exceptional.
Measure Between target and stretch Between stretch and exceptional EPS growth CAGR Between 6% and 12% Between 12% and 15% or above Relative TSR Between median and upper quartile Between upper quartile and upper decile or above Organic revenue growth CAGR Between 4% and 8% Between 8% and 10% or above 20% of the award vests for the achievement of 80% of the award vests for the achievement of stretch, target, with 80% of the award vesting for the with 100% of the award for the achievement of achievement of stretch exceptional performance For the organic revenue growth measure to vest, margin at 30 September 2017 must be at least the level at the beginning of the performance period.
The TSR vesting percentage may only exceed 80% Stretch level if performance against either the EPS target or the organic revenue growth target is also at Stretch level.
Measure Achieved Vesting EPS growth CAGR 10.1% 20.4% th Relative TSR 94 percentile 26.7% Organic revenue growth CAGR 6.5% 19.0% Total 66.1% A change in accounting policy for revenue recognition was introduced in financial year 2015, the basis of which is explained on page 44 of our 2015 Annual Report.
This change in policy, which occurred mid-way through the performance cycle, affects the calculation of both organic revenue and EPS.
Organic revenue and EPS growth over the three-year performance period of this PSP award has therefore been calculated on an amalgamated basis comprising growth for 2015 assessed on the prior accounting basis plus growth for 2016 and 2017 assessed on the revised accounting basis.
This approach was adopted by the Committee in order that the basis of calculation for each year remains consistent with the financial measures and targets communicated to employees and the market at the start of that particular year.
The Committee has determined that this basis of calculation does not make the growth targets materially more or less difficult to satisfy than when they were originally set.
In assessing 2017 performance, the Committee has determined that the most appropriate basis for assessing performance against underlying EPS growth is to exclude part-year contributions from SPS, Sage People and Intacct in 2017 and, in the case of SPS, whole-year performance in the comparative base year of 2016.
This ensures that management are neither penalised nor rewarded on the timing of these transactions completed during the financial year.
The Committee believes that this approach ensures that management time transactions using sound judgement and not with a view to maximising their incentive outcomes.
It will review the impact of future acquisitions and disposals on incentives on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee also determined that the margin underpin condition had been met, allowing the portion of the award relating to organic revenue measure to vest.
94 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 92 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements PSP awards granted in FY17 Awards were granted under the PSP on 14 December 2016 at a market value of 6.265 to selected senior employees, including the Executive Directors, in the form of conditional share awards.
In alignment with our business strategy for FY17, performance conditions for awards granted in FY17 are: Relative TSR Recurring revenue 50% 50% of award of award Have both underpin conditions been met?
EPS growth CAGR of 8.0% p. a. Organic revenue growth CAGR of 6.7% p. a.
No Yes TSR ranking This portion of the award lapses Recurring revenue growth CAGR % of award vesting % of award vesting The following key points are highlighted in relation to the performance measures: Recurring revenue growth as a medium-term performance condition provides close alignment with our medium-term strategic priorities to grow our subscription-based services and acquire new customers.
The recurring revenue growth targets for FY17 awards are consistent with our ambition for the three-year period FY16-18.
The targets have been adjusted to reflect the updated definition of organic revenue which from FY18 includes Intacct and Fairsail Sage People.
The impact of the acquisitions has been pro-rated across the FY17 PSP to reflect the proportionate contribution of the acquired businesses over the performance period.
The EPS underpin remains unchanged, which aligns to our commitment to maintain our margin following the acquisitions.
The Committee is satisfied that the adjusted targets are not materially easier or more difficult to achieve.
The same adjustment has been made proportionally to the FY16 PSP granted March 2016, where the recurring revenue and organic revenue targets have been increased by 0.3% p. a.
Continued focus on overall Group growth and delivery of shareholder value is achieved by: 50% of the awards being determined by relative TSR performance: Requiring the achievement of two broader underpin conditions based on EPS and organic revenue growth before the recurring revenue growth element of the PSP awards can vest.
The targets for these underpin conditions 8.0% p. a. EPS and 6.7% p. a. organic revenue growth are consistent with delivery of a successful transitional phase.
More specifically, they ensure that the transition to a subscription model is achieved whilst maintaining overall growth in revenues and earnings i. e. subscription growth will need to more than offset the decline in licence growth.
Awards will vest, subject to satisfaction of those performance conditions, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Maximum number Face value Face value Threshold vesting End of performance 1 Type of award of shares % of salary % of award period Stephen Kelly 323,224 2,025,000 250% 20% 30 September 2019 Performance shares Steve Hare 208,300 1,305,000 250% 20% 30 September 2019 Notes: 1.
The face value of the awards has been calculated using the market value middle market quotation of a Sage share on 14 December 2016 of 6.265.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 93 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 95 Median 10% Upper quartile 40% Upper decile 50% 8.7% p. a.
50% Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Ocer compared to Group employees The table below shows the percentage change in total remuneration of the Chief Executive Ocer with a comparator group of all UK employees over the same time period.
Sage has employees based all around the world, some of whom work in countries with comparatively higher inflation than the UK: therefore a comparison to Sages UK-based Group employees is more appropriate than to all employees.
CEO All UK employees 1 Salary 0% 7.2% 2 Taxable benets 5.3% -11.6% Annual incentive -72% -19% Notes: 1.
The percentage change for UK colleagues shown is the 2016 annual pay review and promotions market adjustments during 2017.
This is consistent with the basis of the disclosure in previous reports.
The increase in Stephen Kellys taxable benefits is set out in the single figure of remuneration table above.
Taxable benefits for colleagues relate to the reduction in the cost of health insurance premiums compared to 2016.
Historical executive pay and Company performance The table below summarises the Chief Executive Ocer single gure for total remuneration, annual bonus payout and PSP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current year and previous eight years.
Stephen Kelly was appointed CEO on 5 November 2014.
Guy Berruyer stepped down from the position of CEO on 5 November 2014.
Paul Walker resigned as CEO on 1 October 2010.
96 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 94 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Historical Group performance against FTSE 100 Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Ocer compared to Group employees The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return of the Group and the FTSE 100 over the last nine years.
The FTSE 100 index is the index against The table below shows the percentage change in total remuneration of the Chief Executive Ocer with a comparator group of all UK employees over which the TSR of the Group should be measured because of the comparable size of the companies which comprise that index.
0 Historical executive pay and Company performance The table below summarises the Chief Executive Ocer single gure for total remuneration, annual bonus payout and PSP vesting as a percentage of 30-Sep-08 30-Sep-09 30-Sep-10 30-Sep-11 30-Sep-12 30-Sep-13 30-Sep-14 30-Sep-15 30-Sep-16 30-Sep-17 maximum opportunity for the current year and previous eight years.
Sage FTSE 100 Index CEO 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Note: 1 CEO single gure of remuneration Stephen Kelly 1,521 1,723 3,336 This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2017, of 100 invested in The Sage Group plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 index.
in 000 2 Guy Berruyer 2,935 1,196 1,670 1,616 108 The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
3 Paul Walker 1,797 2,196 Payments to past Directors audited information Annual bonus payout Stephen Kelly 67% 69% 19% In the year ending 30 September 2017, no payments were made to past Directors, either in respect of loss of office or otherwise.
as % maximum opportunity Guy Berruyer 66% 21% 72% 55% 0% Relative importance of spend on pay Paul Walker 38% 83% The charts below show the all-employee pay cost as stated in the notes to the accounts, profit before tax and returns to shareholders by way PSP vesting Stephen Kelly 66% of dividends and share buyback for 2016 and 2017. as % of maximum opportunity Guy Berruyer 61% 0% 0% 0% 64% The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Paul Walker 74% 26% Underlying PBT Underlying profit before income tax taken from the table on page 119, adding back discontinued operations on page 172.
Notes: Underlying PBT has been chosen as a measure of our operational profitability 1.
Returns to shareholders Total dividends taken from note 15.5 on page 168: share buyback taken from consolidated statement of changes 2.
Guy Berruyer stepped down from the position of CEO on 5 November 2014. in equity on page 122 3.
Total employee pay Total sta costs from note 3.3 on page 135, including wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based payments Underlying PBT m Returns to shareholders m Total employee pay m 117 66 Shares repurchased for discretionary Ordinary dividends share plans 12 7 16 17 16 17 16 17 16 17 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 97 94 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 95 405 471 145 157 2 9 672 789 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy in 2018.
Base salary An annual salary review was carried out by the Committee in November 2017.
Following that review, the Committee approved the following: Salary 1 January 2018 Salary 1 January 2017 Salary 1 January 2016 Stephen Kelly 810,000 0% increase 810,000 2.5% increase 790,000 0% increase Steve Hare 522,000 0% increase 522,000 2.5% increase 509,200 3% increase Pension and benets As in FY17, the Executive Directors will receive a pension provision worth 25% of salary as a contribution to a dened contribution plan and or as a cash allowance.
They will also receive a standard package of other benets and where deemed necessary the costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sage-related business, consistent with that in FY17.
In addition, the Company will continue to cover the cost of Steve Hares travel and accommodation for days on which he attends to Sage matters in the Companys London offices.
Annual bonus Key features of the Executive Directors annual bonus plan for 2018 are as follows: The maximum annual bonus potential will remain unchanged at 125% of salary One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan Annual bonuses awarded in respect of performance in 2018 will be subject to potential withholding malus or recovery clawback if specified trigger events occur within three years of the payment award of the annual bonus.
Trigger events will comprise a material misstatement of the audited results, error in calculation of the bonus payout, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss as a result of an individuals misconduct or gross misconduct which could have warranted an individuals summary dismissal The annual bonus for 2018 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below: As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity: Measure CEO CFO 1 Organic revenue growth 80% 80% Strategic goals 20% 20% Note: 1.
Payout is dependent upon the satisfaction of the underpin conditions of underlying operating profit margin and recurring revenue growth.
The selection of measures and targets takes into account the Companys strategic priorities, its internal budgeting and consensus.
The organic revenue growth measure is based on the updated definition of organic revenue set out on page 34.
Targets are not disclosed because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
Many of our competitors are unlisted companies and not required to disclose their targets: our disclosure could provide our competitors with a considerable advantage.
It is intended for retrospective disclosure to be made after a period of one year.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Chief Executive Ocer and Chief Financial Ocer will be amongst the participants in the PSP award to be granted in December 2017.
Awards will be of shares worth 250% of salary at the date of grant.
Vesting of these awards will be subject to satisfaction of the following performance conditions measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2020.
A holding period to the PSPs granted for the financial year FY18 will apply for two years from the vesting date.
No further performance conditions attach to the awards during the holding period.
98 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 96 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Relative TSR performance condition Recurring revenue growth performance condition This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy in 2018.
50% of award 50% of award % of award Recurring revenue growth Base salary TSR ranking vesting CAGR % of award vesting An annual salary review was carried out by the Committee in November 2017.
Following that review, the Committee approved the following: Below target Below median 0% Below target 9% p. a.
0% Salary 1 January 2018 Salary 1 January 2017 Salary 1 January 2016 Target Median 10% Target 9% p. a.
10% Stephen Kelly 810,000 0% increase 810,000 2.5% increase 790,000 0% increase Stretch Upper quartile 40% Stretch 11% p. a.
40% Steve Hare 522,000 0% increase 522,000 2.5% increase 509,200 3% increase Exceptional Upper decile 50% Exceptional 13% p. a.
50% Pension and benets TSR performance comprises share price growth and dividends paid.
Recurring revenue is revenue earned from customers for the provision As in FY17, the Executive Directors will receive a pension provision worth 25% of salary as a contribution to a dened contribution plan and or as a of a good or service, where risks and rewards are transferred to the cash allowance.
They will also receive a standard package of other benets and where deemed necessary the costs of travel, accommodation and Sages TSR performance will be measured relative to the TSR of the customer over the term of a contract, with the customer being unable subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sage-related business, consistent with that in FY17.
In addition, the Company will continue to constituents of the FTSE 100, excluding financial services and to continue to benefit from the full functionality of the good or service cover the cost of Steve Hares travel and accommodation for days on which he attends to Sage matters in the Companys London offices.
Annual bonus Notes: Key features of the Executive Directors annual bonus plan for 2018 are as follows: For any of this portion of the PSP awards to vest, two underpin conditions also both need to be met: The maximum annual bonus potential will remain unchanged at 125% of salary Organic revenue growth of 7% p. a. CAGR needs to be achieved over the One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan performance period Annual bonuses awarded in respect of performance in 2018 will be subject to potential withholding malus or recovery clawback if specified Group EPS growth of 8% p. a. CAGR needs to be achieved over the performance period trigger events occur within three years of the payment award of the annual bonus.
Trigger events will comprise a material misstatement of the As noted earlier in the report, the recurring and organic revenue targets have been adjusted upwards to take account of the updated definition of organic measures audited results, error in calculation of the bonus payout, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss as a result of an individuals misconduct or gross misconduct which could have warranted an individuals summary dismissal PSP awards granted in 2018 will be subject to potential withholding malus or recovery clawback if specified trigger events occur prior to the third The annual bonus for 2018 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below: anniversary of the release date of an award.
Trigger events in respect of PSP awards will comprise a material misstatement of the audited results, error in calculation of the extent of PSP vesting, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss as a result of an individuals misconduct or As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity: gross misconduct which could have warranted an individuals summary dismissal or a material failure of risk management.
Measure CEO CFO Non-Executive Director remuneration 1 Organic revenue growth 80% 80% The table below shows the fee structure for non-Executive Directors for 2018.
Non-executive fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee Strategic goals 20% 20% for the Chairman of the Board which is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive fees will next be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in 2018.
2018 fees Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 360,000 The selection of measures and targets takes into account the Companys strategic priorities, its internal budgeting and consensus.
The organic Basic Non-Executive Director fee 60,000 revenue growth measure is based on the updated definition of organic revenue set out on page 34.
Targets are not disclosed because they are 1 Senior Independent Director additional fee 10,000 considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
It is intended for retrospective disclosure to be made after a period Audit and Risk Committee Chairman additional fee 17,000 of one year.
Remuneration Committee Chairman additional fee 17,000 Performance Share Plan PSP 1.
On appointment as Senior Independent Director, Drummond Hall elected to receive an additional fee of 10,000 to reflect the responsibilities and additional time commitment of the Senior Independent Director.
The fee is lower than the previous fee of 15,000 and reflects the fact that he also receives a fee as Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The Chief Executive Ocer and Chief Financial Ocer will be amongst the participants in the PSP award to be granted in December 2017.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 99 96 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 97 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The required shareholding for Executive Directors is 200% of salary: this has been eective from the 2016 AGM.
Executive Directors are expected to build up the required shareholding within a five-year period of joining the Board.
As at 30 September 2017, Stephen Kelly held shares worth 219% of salary, and Steve Hare held shares worth 227% of salary, including unvested deferred shares net of tax.
The values for Executive Directors are derived from interests in shares valued using the average market price of a share between 30 June and 29 September 2017 the last trading day of the financial year, which was 689.6p, and the executives basic salary on 30 September 2017.
Interests in shares The interests of each person who was a Director of the Company as at 30 September 2017 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Ordinary shares at Ordinary shares at 30 September 2017 30 September 2016 Director number number 1 D H Brydon 78,024 68,024 N Berkett 47,999 47,999 D Hall 10,000 10,000 S Hare 146,482 0 J Howell 31,000 31,000 S Kelly 237,346 212,346 C Keers 0 N A S Jiandani 0 N A Total 550,851 369,369 Notes: 1.
Donald Brydons shareholding at 30 September 2016 has been restated, as announced through the Regulatory News Service on 9 February 2017.
There have been no changes in the Directors holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 30 September 2017 and the date of this report.
Details of the Executive Directors interests in outstanding share awards under the PSP, deferred shares and all-employee plans are set out below.
All-employee share options audited information UK-based Executive Directors were entitled to participate in The Sage Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan SRSOP, which is now closed for new invitations, and in addition to the new all-employee share plan, The Sage Save and Share Plan, on the same terms as other UK-based employees.
In the year under review, Stephen Kelly and Steve Hare did not participate in this scheme as their existing contributions to the SRSOP are at the HMRC-approved contribution limit.
The outstanding all-employee share options granted to each Director of the Company are as follows: Shares under Shares under option at option at Granted Exercised Lapsed 30 September Exercise price 1 October 2016 during the year during the year during the year 2017 Director per share number number number number number Date exercisable S Kelly 456p 6,578 6,578 1 August 2020 -31 January 2021 S Hare 317p 9,463 9,463 1 August 2019- 31 January 2020 Total 16,041 16,041 Notes: No performance conditions apply to options granted under this Plan.
For the 2015 SRSOP grant, the exercise price was set at 456.0p, a 20% discount to the average share price of 570.0p on 18, 19 and 20 May 2015.
For the 2014 SRSOP, the exercise price was set at 317p, a 20% discount to the average share price on 15, 16 and 19 May 2014 of 396.25p.
The market price of a share of the Company at 29 September 2017 the last trading day of the financial year was 698.5p mid-market average and the lowest and highest market price during the year was 599.0p and 756.0p respectively.
100 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 98 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Performance Share Plan audited information Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director of the Company under the Performance Share Plan are as follows: The required shareholding for Executive Directors is 200% of salary: this has been eective from the 2016 AGM.
As at 30 September 2017, Stephen Kelly held shares worth 219% of Under award Awarded Vested Lapsed Under award salary, and Steve Hare held shares worth 227% of salary, including unvested deferred shares net of tax.
The values for Executive Directors are derived 1 October 2016 during the year during the year during the year 30 September Director Grant date number number number number 2017 number Vesting date from interests in shares valued using the average market price of a share between 30 June and 29 September 2017 the last trading day of the financial year, which was 689.6p, and the executives basic salary on 30 September 2017.
S Jiandani 0 N A The market price of a share on 14 December 2016, the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2017, was 626.5p.
Total 550,851 369,369 The performance conditions for awards granted in January 2015 are set out on page 94.
The performance conditions applicable to awards that were granted on 2 March 2016 and 14 December 2016 are explained on page 95.
Notes: For Stephen Kellys award that vests in January 2021, Sages TSR must have been at least 15% CAGR over the performance period.
If this underpin condition is met, the award will vest 1.
Donald Brydons shareholding at 30 September 2016 has been restated, as announced through the Regulatory News Service on 9 February 2017. based on Sages relative TSR performance over the performance period as set out on page 86 of the 2015 Annual Report.
The performance conditions for Steve Hares awards that vest during 2017 are set out on page 91 of the 2016 Annual Report.
The vesting date for Steve Hares award that was due to Details of the Executive Directors interests in outstanding share awards under the PSP, deferred shares and all-employee plans are set out below.
vest on 10 March 2017 was delayed to 4 August 2017 due to the imposition of dealing restrictions.
Deferred shares audited information All-employee share options audited information The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director of the Company under The Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows: UK-based Executive Directors were entitled to participate in The Sage Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan SRSOP, which is now closed for Under award at Awarded Vested Lapsed Under award at new invitations, and in addition to the new all-employee share plan, The Sage Save and Share Plan, on the same terms as other UK-based employees.
1 October 2016 during the year during the year during the year 30 September See page 166 for more detail.
In the year under review, Stephen Kelly and Steve Hare did not participate in this scheme as their existing contributions Director Grant date number number number number 2017 number Vesting date to the SRSOP are at the HMRC-approved contribution limit.
The outstanding all-employee share options granted to each Director of the Company are S Hare 12 January 2015 11,047 11,047 12 January 2018 as follows: 9 December 2015 13,673 13,673 9 December 2018 Shares under 14 December 2016 23,528 23,528 14 December 2018 Shares under option at option at Granted Exercised Lapsed 30 September S Kelly 36,503 36,503 14 December 2018 Exercise price 1 October 2016 during the year during the year during the year 2017 Director per share number number number number number Date exercisable Total 24,720 60,031 84,751 S Kelly 456p 6,578 6,578 1 August 2020 -31 January 2021 Notes: S Hare 317p 9,463 9,463 1 August 2019- 31 January 2020 Awards are not subject to further performance conditions once granted.
The market price of a share on 14 December 2016, the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2017, was 626.5p.
Total 16,041 16,041 No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
Notes: No performance conditions apply to options granted under this Plan.
For the 2015 SRSOP grant, the exercise price was set at 456.0p, a 20% discount to the average share price of There are limits on the number of newly issued and treasury shares that can be used to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share schemes 570.0p on 18, 19 and 20 May 2015.
The limits and the Groups current position against those limits as at 16 November 2017 the last practicable date prior to The market price of a share of the Company at 29 September 2017 the last trading day of the financial year was 698.5p mid-market average and the lowest and highest market price publication of this document are set out below.
during the year was 599.0p and 756.0p respectively.
The Company has previously satisfied all awards under the Performance Share Plan through the market purchase of shares or transfer of treasury shares and will continue to consider the most appropriate approach, based on the relevant factors at the time.
Limit Current position 5% of Groups share capital can be used for discretionary share schemes 1.96% 10% of Groups share capital can be used for all share schemes 2.76% The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 101 98 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 99 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued External appointments Executive Directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board approval, to take Non-executive Directorships with other organisations in order to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and countries.
Fees received by the Directors in their capacity as Directors of these companies are retained, reecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these roles.
The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on Executive and non-Executive Directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no Executive Director should hold more than two directorships of other listed companies.
The Board encourages Executive Directors to limit other directorships to one listed company.
Except in exceptional circumstances where approved in advance by the Chairman of the Committee, if an Executive Director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed company then only the fees from one such company will be retained by the Director.
Neither of the Executive Directors currently holds an appointment of this nature.
No formal limit on other board appointments applies to non-Executive Directors under the policy but prior approval not to be unreasonably withheld from the Chairman on behalf of the Board is required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the Chairman, prior approval of the Nomination Committee is required on behalf of the Board.
Unexpired term of contract table Unexpired term of contract on 30 September 2017, or on date of Director Date of contract contract if later Notice period under contract Executive Directors S Kelly 5 November 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual S Hare 3 January 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-Executive Directors N Berkett 1 July 2016 1 year 9 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D H Brydon 6 July 2017 2 years 9 months 6 months from the Company and or individual J Howell 15 May 2016 1 year 8 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D Hall 1 January 2017 2 years 3 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual S Jiandani 28 February 2017 2 years 5 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual C Keers 1 July 2017 2 years 9 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year were being considered: Ruth Markland Drummond Hall Chair Donald Brydon Jonathan Howell Neil Berkett Inna Kuznetsova Cath Keers The Committee received assistance from Sandra Campopiano former Chief People Ocer, Tina Clayton Executive Vice President, Reward & Recognition, and Vicki Bradin General Counsel and Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
102 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 102 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration report continued Directors annual remuneration report continued External appointments External advisers Executive Directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board approval, to take Non-executive Directorships with other organisations in order The Remuneration Committee continues to receive advice from Deloitte LLP, an independent rm of remuneration consultants appointed by the to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and countries.
Fees received by the Directors in their capacity as Directors of these Committee after consultation with the Board.
During the year, Deloittes executive compensation advisory practice advised the Committee on companies are retained, reecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these roles.
The Board recognises the significant demands that developments in market practice, corporate governance, institutional investor views and in the development of the Companys incentive are made on Executive and non-Executive Directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no Executive Director should hold more than two arrangements.
Total fees for advice provided to the Committee during the year were 75,800. directorships of other listed companies.
Except in The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received has been objective and independent.
exceptional circumstances where approved in advance by the Chairman of the Committee, if an Executive Director holds non-executive positions at more than one listed company then only the fees from one such company will be retained by the Director.
Neither of the Executive Directors Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in currently holds an appointment of this nature.
Other parts of Deloitte have provided tax advice, specic corporate finance support in the context of merger and acquisition activity and unrelated corporate advisory services.
In the case of the Chairman, prior approval of the Statement of shareholding voting Nomination Committee is required on behalf of the Board.
The table below sets out the results of the vote on the Remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM and report at the 2017 AGM: Unexpired term of contract table Votes for Votes against Unexpired term of Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld contract on 30 September 2017, Remuneration policy 767,613,442 97.43 20,268,897 2.57 787,882,339 2,910,738 or on date of Remuneration report 737,778,779 90.90 73,884,744 9.10 811,663,523 419,256 Director Date of contract contract if later Notice period under contract Executive Directors S Kelly 5 November 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual S Hare 3 January 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-Executive Directors N Berkett 1 July 2016 1 year 9 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D H Brydon 6 July 2017 2 years 9 months 6 months from the Company and or individual Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee J Howell 15 May 2016 1 year 8 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D Hall 1 January 2017 2 years 3 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual 21 November 2017 S Jiandani 28 February 2017 2 years 5 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual C Keers 1 July 2017 2 years 9 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year were being considered: Ruth Markland Drummond Hall Chair Donald Brydon Jonathan Howell Neil Berkett Inna Kuznetsova Cath Keers The Committee received assistance from Sandra Campopiano former Chief People Ocer, Tina Clayton Executive Vice President, Reward & Recognition, and Vicki Bradin General Counsel and Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 103 102 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 101
