GOVERNANCE Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Remuneration THE LEVEL AND COMPONENTS OF report REMUNERATION PROCEDURE REMUNERATION Dear shareholder KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Determine the terms of I am pleased to present our 2017 remuneration report.
employment and remuneration for executive directors and The remuneration policy sets out our approach the Company Secretary.
to the reward of executive and non-executive Ensure that the executive directors are remunerated directors.
Our aim is to provide a remuneration fairly and responsibly with the long-term interests of the structure which is fair, with incentives aligned Company in mind.
with the Groups strategy and long-term objectives, Consider the appropriateness and which encourages executive continuity.
of the directors remuneration framework against arrangements for other We have reported another strong set of results which employees.
2018 salary review has delivered growth in income and the value of the Salaries of executive directors were reviewed and business.
We have continued intensive asset Review the remuneration increases of 2% were approved, effective from management of our portfolio and completed important policy every three years.
This is below the average salary refinancing initiatives, as summarised in the Strategic increases awarded to employees.
Against the backdrop of this Approve the design, targets performance, the Committees main decisions during and outcomes for the annual the year related to the following elements: 2018 annual bonus bonus schemes and share The Committee reviewed the annual bonus incentive schemes.
framework for 2018 to ensure it remained aligned to Annual bonus outcomes the Groups strategy and operational goals.
We Ensure that the remuneration At the beginning of each year, we set financial and decided that the performance measures remained report and disclosure of director operational targets for the annual bonus scheme appropriate but would introduce two minor remuneration is simple to read which align with the Groups long-term strategy.
Where amendments to the calibration for the year ahead.
and understand, accurate and projects extend for periods beyond the financial year, First, we are increasing the weighting of the growth complete.
annual targets are set to assess progress towards in ERV metric from 20% to 35% of the overall achievement of the ultimate objectives.
In setting bonus to reflect the strategic importance of rental targets, we use the Groups KPIs which drive value growth to the business.
Second, for that ERV metric, through the delivery of long-term rental growth.
we will introduce a target range with a payout scaled The outcome of performance against our targets from threshold to maximum, depending on the was 55% of the maximum potential award.
This reflects feedback from bonus targets are disclosed in full on page 94. our investors and is intended to make the target more stretching whilst also providing greater Each executive director has elected to receive his incentive to maximise performance within a range of award solely in the form of deferred shares, and will potential outcomes.
Targets will be fully disclosed therefore receive an award under the Deferred retrospectively in next years report.
Annual Share Bonus Scheme of 82.5% of salary in December 2017, which will vest in December 2020.
KEY ACTIVITIES Set annual bonus targets Ratify LTIP vesting Annual bonus outcomes LTIP grant approval Annual review of Committee report remuneration policy NOVEMBER 2016 2 MEETINGS 86 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 COMMITTEE MEMBERS LTIP vesting Remuneration policy AND MEETING ATTENDANCE LTIP awards which were made in 2014 will vest in Our policy was approved at the 2016 AGM, with four held December 2017, based on a three year performance 94% of shareholders, who voted, voting in favour.
Sally Walden 4 period which ended on 30 September 2017.
The policy table is summarised on page 91 for Chairman Annualised TSR of 15.5% per annum exceeded ease of reference.
that of the benchmark FTSE 350 Real Estate Jill Little 4 We are not proposing any changes this year.
Index by 11% per annum over the period.
Growth Oliver Marriott 3 The 2016 Annual Remuneration Report was approved in NAV exceeded the benchmark RPI by 7.9% at the 2017 AGM, with 99% of shareholders who over the period.
As a result of this performance, Dermot Mathias 4 voted, voting in favour.
the TSR target and the NAV target were fully met Hilary Riva 4 resulting in 100% vesting of these awards.
We will review our policy during 2018 for Three meetings were held in the period prior to shareholder approval in 2019. his retirement on 5 July 2017 2018 LTIP grant We look forward to receiving your continued support at the forthcoming AGM.
An LTIP award will be made in December 2017 at 125% of basic annual salary with a three-year performance period ending 30 September 2020.
Subject to performance against the targets TSR ADVISOR TO THE COMMITTEE Sally Walden performance compared with the FTSE 350 REIT Chairman - Remuneration Committee Index and NAV growth, which will remain Deloitte LLP act as independent unchanged, the awards will vest in December advisor to the Committee.
27 November 2017 2020, and be released in December 2022 following a two-year post-vesting holding period.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to Alignment with employees executive remuneration consulting in the In reviewing salaries and bonus outcomes, we Context for the Groups UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the consider overall remuneration packages of the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team remuneration approach executive directors.
Employee remuneration that provide remuneration advice to the levels are considered when reviewing executive The Group has 29 employees, including four Committee do not have connections with directors salaries.
Employees receive the same executive directors.
The combined holdings of the Group that may impair their objectivity benefits as directors: they participate in the LTIP the executive directors is just over 3.1 million and independence.
The fees charged by and have the opportunity to defer their annual shares market value at 30 September 2017 of Deloitte LLP for the provision of independent bonus into shares.
They also participate in circa 31 million.
This equates to individual advice to the Committee during the Sharesave, and receive health and life insurance.
holdings of between 3 and 30 times their financial year were 24,500 excluding annual salary.
Deloitte LLP provided no other The Company makes a pension contribution to services to the Group during the year.
employees: executive directors receive 25% of These substantial holdings have been built up salary and all other employees receive 17.5% of over a number of years through a combination of: salary.
This is paid into a pension or may be taken Taking the annual bonus in shares through as a cash equivalent, in which case it is reduced for the Deferred Annual Share Bonus scheme: any associated tax borne by the Group.
Retaining shares from the LTIP: and Acquiring shares for cash.
Review of non-executive The Groups small team of executive directors director and chairman fees and key employees all have a close Fees for non-executive directors, including the involvement in the continuing development Chairman, are reviewed every two years.
and implementation of the Groups strategy.
Consequently, the Committee considers it Fees for non-executive directors were reviewed by appropriate that, in setting objectives and the Board and new fee levels equating to an increase measuring performance, emphasis is placed of 3.6% will take effect from 1 December 2017. on team rather than individual performance.
The Committee reviewed the Chairmans fee Average length of service of the executive taking into account his time commitment, directors is 24 years and of the executive experience and performance.
His performance committee is eleven years.
during his first year in the role was reviewed in a process led by the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee agreed to increase the fee to 225,000 with effect from 1 December 2017.
The fee will remain below the lower quartile of UK listed companies of a similar financial size and most of our closest industry peers.
Market update Salary review Update on LTIP Review advisors performance Review AGM feedback Preparation for year end Review terms of reference remuneration processes R eview Chairmans fees Dilution review MAY 2017 SEPTEMBER 2017 87 88
