Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement REVIEW OF THE YEAR October 2016, even though the formulaic application of the performance conditions Performance would have resulted in vesting at 41.7%, Within their respective Chairmans and and the 2016 17 bonus was reduced.
Chief Executives statements earlier in The Committee will continue to consider the Annual Report and Accounts, both the use of discretion on a case-by-case Roger and Ralph have reported on the Catherine Glickman basis, being mindful of any impact on the key achievements of our business for the wider workforce and general market and Chairman of the year, namely record underlying turnover trading conditions.
Remuneration Committee of 992.2 million and an increase of 2.9% in our underlying proft before taxation to When the 2013 14 LTIP award was granted, 100.1 million.
These results were achieved the base fgure for the CROCCE performance DEAR SHAREHOLDER against a background of Brexit, increasing measure was originally set at 10.8%, cost pressures, increased competition based on CROCCE for 2012 13.
This fgure In this, my frst year as the Remuneration and subdued trading, particularly over the was disclosed in the 2014 Directors Committee Chairman and on behalf of the summer months.
Remuneration Report and was calculated Board, I am pleased to present our report for on the basis of a 53 week reporting period.
Pay and performance outcomes This was subsequently rebased to refect a Annual bonus 2016 17 Being a member of the Board and 52 week period to enable comparisons to The 2.9% increase in underlying Group proft Remuneration Committee for two years has be made on a like-for-like basis, and the versus 2016 is above the bonus threshold.
given me the opportunity to learn about the rebased fgure of 10.5% was applied to the The return on capital outturn of 10.7% is business and the approach to remuneration.
This base 0.2% above the CROCCE base.
Based on I support the responsible approach for fgure also applies to the 2014 15, 2015 16, these results, a bonus of 22.65% of salary which Marstons is known.
We aim to ensure 2016 17 LTIP awards and will apply to the would have been earned, although the that our Executive Directors rewards are 2017 18 LTIP awards.
Committee exercised discretion to reduce aligned with the interests of shareholders the bonus awarded to Ralph Findlay Board change through the achievement of the Groups and Andrew Andrea to 20% of salary We announced on 5 September 2017 strategic objectives.
We believe that variable being mindful of continuing our careful that, following a senior management pay should only be earned for achievement management of costs.
This also applies to reorganisation, Peter Dalzell would step against objective stretching targets.
employees in the Group bonus scheme who down from the Board on 29 September 2017 Bonus targets and longer term performance will receive 20% of their individual bonus and his employment with the Group ended metrics are set at challenging levels, opportunity.
Peter Dalzell left the business as a result of redundancy.
whilst also being mindful not to encourage before the year end and details of his bonus excessive risk taking.
These were the The Remuneration Committee reviewed and which equated to approximately 5% of principles underpinning our remuneration approved the remuneration arrangements salary are set out on page 60. policy put to shareholders at the Annual in connection with Peter Dalzell leaving the General Meeting held on 24 January 2017: I business, details of which are set out on LTIP 2013 14 Award vesting am encouraged by the level of shareholder page 60.
In approving these arrangements, The vesting estimate for the 2013 14 support, with 97.88% of votes cast in favour the Committee had regard to Peters LTIP Award, as reported in the 2016 of the new Directors Remuneration Policy.
service with the Group for over 22 years, Remuneration Report, was 21%.
the support he provided during that period The policy became effective from the close In June 2017 the Committee confrmed and his instrumental role in growing our of the 2017 AGM and the following pages this vesting outcome, consisting of a 16% pubs business.
All such payments are describe how the policy has been applied contribution from the CROCCE performance consistent with our current Directors in 2016 17.
Rather than reproduce the full measure and 5% from the relative TSR Remuneration Policy.
policy, in the Annual Remuneration Report, performance measure.
When confrming we have provided extracts from the policy Other key activities of the Committee the outturn, the Committee considered alongside its implementation during the year.
during the year the unexpected and signifcant impact of The full policy can be found on pages 49 to 56 Approval of the final Directors the Brexit vote on the Companys share of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and Remuneration Policy proposed to price.
The Brexit vote signifcantly disrupted is also available in the Governance section shareholders at the 2017 AGM, in exchange rates which saw a positive of our website www.
co. uk particular the inclusion of a two year beneft for those companies with signifcant investors company-profle.
holding period, following engagement overseas earnings and, conversely, a The 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration with and feedback from our negative impact for those companies and the resolution to approve amendments major shareholders.
to our Long Term Incentive Plan also The Committee deemed it appropriate to Consideration of pay review proposals for received very high levels of support with exercise its discretion as regards the relative the Executive Directors, as outlined above.
over 99% of votes cast in favour of both TSR element, but to limit the vesting to the resolutions.
We will continue to engage with threshold level 25%, resulting in a 5% award 2017 bonus proposals and 2013 14 LTIP our shareholders and hope we can rely on in relation to this element.
This approach award vesting, as outlined above.
If you would like to applied to all LTIP participants including the Approval of SAYE and LTIP grants.
contact me directly to discuss any aspect of senior management population.
our policy or this report then please email Review of Executive Directors and The decision to exercise discretion is me at remunerationchair@marstons.
senior management shareholdings not taken lightly and the Committee has I will also be available to answer your in the Company, in the context of previously used its discretion to lapse questions at our AGM on 23 January 2018. shareholding guidelines.
LTIP awards and reduce annual bonus pay-outs even when formulaic application of the performance conditions would result in vesting and or greater payments.
For example, the 2012 13 LTIP lapsed in Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 53 Annual Statement continued Looking forward to 2017 18 Pay award effective 1 October 2017 Ralph Findlay, CEO, has attended each MEMBERSHIP The Committee reviewed the salaries paid to meeting during the year to provide advice Catherine Glickman Chairman from Executive Directors and, taking into account in respect of the remuneration of the 24 January 2017 the current economic climate, an increase other Executive Directors.
Ralph is not in in base salaries of 2% was approved, which attendance for any discussions regarding Carolyn Bradley was in line with the average salary increases his own remuneration.
Robin Rowland across the Group.
The Group Secretary, Anne-Marie Brennan, Neil Goulden Chairman until The Chairmans fees were last reviewed and the Group People Director, Catherine 24 January 2017 in 2015.
However, in consideration of the Taylor, have also attended each meeting current economic climate and increasing during the year and provide advice to pressure on costs, the Chairman expressed the Committee.
OUR RESPONSIBILITIES a preference for his fees not to be reviewed Deloitte LLP Deloitte were appointed by at this time.
The Committee agreed that the The Committee is responsible for the Committee in 2003 and are retained as Chairmans fees should remain unchanged.
setting the framework and policy for an independent adviser to the Committee Executive Directors remuneration and, No changes will be made to the Nonand attend meetings as and when required.
within that framework, for determining executive Directors fees for 2017 18.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration the remuneration packages for the Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Incentive remuneration for 2017 18 operates under the Code of Conduct The Committee also approves the design No changes are proposed to the Directors in relation to executive remuneration and pay-outs of annual and long-term annual bonus and LTIP opportunities for consulting in the UK.
Deloitte received fees incentives awards.
In addition, we take 2017 18, and further information is given on amounting to 9,500 during the year in note of any major changes in employee pages 57 to 59. respect of advice given to the Committee, beneft structures applicable to the wider and also provided advice during the year in To better align the performance periods, workforce and review pension provision and relation to the operation of the Companys vesting dates and release dates for LTIP remuneration trends across the Group.
awards, it is proposed that with effect from the 2017 18 LTIP awards we will move to granting after the announcement of the ATTENDEES TERMS OF REFERENCE full year results.
Therefore, the 2017 18 The Committee receives advice from a LTIP awards are intended to be granted in The Committees terms of reference are number of different sources.
This helps to December 2017. reviewed annually and can be found in inform decision making and ensures the the Governance section of the Company Committee is aware of pay and conditions Committee focus for 2017 18 website www.
co. uk investors in the Group as a whole, and conditions in The Committee intends to conduct a company-profle.
detailed and thorough review of the current performance metrics for both the annual and long-term elements of variable pay to ensure they remain relevant and appropriate in relation to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
Any changes to metrics would be carefully considered and, if material, would be the subject of a consultation with shareholders.
We are aware of the developing regulatory environment on pay in the UK and internationally we will continue to monitor this over the coming year.
Specifcally, in response to the consultations on corporate governance reform, the Committee will also consider how it can support the facilitation of greater employee engagement and consultation on remuneration matters.
Catherine Glickman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 54 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
