GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017 which is split into: i this Annual Statement, incorporating an at a glance summary setting out the remuneration decisions made this year as well as highlighting key elements of our proposals for the new Directors Remuneration Policy ii the Governance Summary iii the proposed Remuneration Policy iv the Annual Remuneration Report on the implementation of the current Policy in the year ended 30 September 2017 and Reward to proposed implementation for next year This has been a busy and challenging year for the Committee.
support We began the year preparing for our three year policy review, recognising there has been significant change in the market and best practice has been evolving.
We conducted our review and corporate consulted widely, we have managed business as usual and then in the latter part of the year, we considered the terms for the retirement of our long-serving Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO success Richard Cousins and the succession of Dominic Blakemore as Group CEO on 1 April 2018.
I wish to thank my Committee colleagues for their full support over the year.
We believe that having a remuneration framework clearly REMUNERATION POLICY REVIEW linked to the KPIs by which we measure the delivery of our business strategy has supported Compass sustained We began the policy review by examining our remuneration framework to ensure that it remains appropriate for our current success.
As we reviewed our proposed Policy we sought to retain that link whilst ensuring that any future policy business model, and that it supports our future ambitions by rewarding management to deliver our strategy of sustainable reflects the evolving external landscape.
The Committee reviewed various emerging remuneration structures with the assistance of external advisors.
After having discussions with management and seeking input from key shareholders at the very early stages of our review, the Committee concluded that the existing model base salary, an annual cash bonus and a three year LTIP with a two year post vesting holding period linked to the KPIs by which we measure delivery of the business is well understood by the business, supports our culture and is fundamental to maintaining the superior returns to shareholders which Compass has delivered over time.
Consequently, we focused on: incentive measures do they sufficiently support our strategy?
market effectiveness does our remuneration enable us to pay appropriately for successful leadership?
emerging practice does remuneration align to shareholder expectations and take account of new trends?
resilience is remuneration capable of supporting talented leaders and their future successors?
68 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT OF INCENTIVES This results in an overall package with a larger proportion 1 of remuneration at risk and improved alignment to the We estimate that approximately 75% of the 200 billion global shareholder experience.
food services market is currently serviced by regional or in-house providers and there is a significant structural growth opportunity.
Our proposal Compass generates sustainable organic growth by winning new When developing the Policy and consulting shareholders, our intent contracts, retaining existing business and generating like for like was to change to our proposed framework as set out below and revenue growth.
We are highly focused on our operating margin in the following pages after any change in leadership.
Given and the delivery of efficiencies to ensure profitable growth.
Looking Dominic Blakemores transition to Group CEO on 1 April 2018, ahead, we recognise that growth is central to our strategy.
Our our Policy, if approved by shareholders, will be implemented for Return on Capital Employed ROCE is, however, at a high level and executive directors from that date.
so we believe that to place too much emphasis on further improving Salary: We remain committed to an approach to salary which this rate of return on our capital risks having the unintended result reflects the experience and contribution of the individual.
This of discouraging investments in profitable opportunities at attractive means that salary levels for new appointments may be set below the margins if it is dilutive to Group ROCE in the short term.
We do not market, and if so, they may subsequently receive increases which believe this to be in the interests of shareholders.
exceed those of the wider workforce for high performance and Our proposal growth in experience over a phased period.
Our current long term arrangement incentivises growth in the rate Pension: We will make an adjustment to the balance of the current ofROCE, cumulative Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF and relative package by reducing UK pension cash allowances or contributions, total return to shareholders TSR.
We propose to refine the measure if appropriate from 35% of salary to 20% of salary in line with the based on growth in ROCE to one based on ROCE targets taking into level for Compass UK management.
This reduction will apply to both account our strategy on the use of capital, and to place greater new appointees and current executive directors.
For new appointees emphasis on both ROCE and AFCF.
We are therefore proposing such as Mr Blakemore following the approval of the Policy, this will torebalance our measures to 40% ROCE, 40% cumulative AFCF commence with immediate effect and for incumbent executives, and20% relative TSR previously each measure was equivalent it will be on a phased basis starting in January 2019 over three years toone third.
in increments of -5% per annum.
To reflect US market pressures, THE REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK we believe it is in shareholders interests that Gary Green remains Market effectiveness and emerging practice: We have operated on a pension cash allowance of 35% of salary.
a remuneration policy which positioned total remuneration towards Bonus deferral: Our existing executive directors have significant the lower end of our peer group based on the FTSE 50 excluding levels of share ownership already above 200% of salary and are the financial service sector.
We wish to retain this philosophy and subject to a robust malus and clawback policy.
For newer recognise the need to guard against the inflationary effect of using appointees we will support them to build up their shareholding by market data.
The Committee believes it has a duty to investors to modifying the annual bonus plan to require the deferral of one third ensure that remuneration arrangements for senior executives are of the bonus award into Deferred Bonus Shares until the newly sufficiently attractive to retain the talented individuals that run the increased share ownership guideline is met.
As part of our review, we noted specifically that when we would vest after a three year period and be subject to malus and looked at total remuneration the overall value was below market.
However, when we examined individual elements the picture was more varied.
Salaries were positioned to reflect tenure and Long Term Incentive Plan awards: We will increase our long term experience: pension at 35% of salary was more generous than incentive awards from 250% of salary to 300% of salary for the typically paid to both Compass UK management and in the external Group CEO and for all other directors from 200% to 250% of salary.
market to new executive appointees: the annual bonus opportunity This level is substantially below wider market practice for companies was appropriately positioned but the LTIP opportunity was materially of our size and complexity but we believe this approach is behind the market.
We noted that our share ownership guidelines appropriate for Compass.
for executive directors below Group CEO at 150% base salary were Share ownership: We increased the minimum guidelines for below the level now expected by shareholders.
all executive directors to 200% of base salary with effect from Resilience: Compass success can be attributed to a strong September 2017.
We will further increase our share ownership leadership team with most of the Executive Board having held guidelines materially to a rate of ownership which is equal to the seniorleadership roles for many years.
We have a proven track value of the long term incentive award i. e. 300% of salary for the record in successful succession planning, having maintained a Group CEO and 250% of salary for other executive directors.
focus on developing talent internally and carefully managing our We will extend the period by which executive directors are expected talent pipeline.
To ensure that we can appoint and retain talented to achieve this revised level from four years to five years and will executives, we identified the elements of remuneration which we measure achievement pro rata over the five year period.
wished to change to provide a rebalanced overall remuneration The charts overleaf demonstrate how our proposal seeks to package, offering a lower proportion of fixed pay and more rebalance overall remuneration for the Group CEO.
The impact is emphasison long term, performance based incentives.
an increase in on-target opportunity for the new Group CEO of less than 2% of target total pay.
Based on management estimates as noted on pages 6 and 7.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 69 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED AN ILLUSTRATION OF THE FRAMEWORK PROPOSALS FOR THE GROUP CEO Current policy applied to Current policy applied to Proposed policy applied to Richard Cousins Dominic Blakemore Dominic Blakemore 1 1 1 Target Total Pay 3.96m Target Total Pay 3.34m Target Total Pay 3.40m 27% 27% 27% 1.07m 0.90m 0.90m 37% 37% 42% 1.45m 1.22m 1.42m 5% 9% 9% 0.18m 0.37m 0.32m 27% 27% 26% 1.07m 0.90m 0.90m Base salary Pension Annual target bonus Expected LTIP 1.
The illustration excludes benefits in kind as these may vary based on individual circumstances.
The proposed Policy will mean: overall increase in Target Total Pay of less than 2% by moving Mr Blakemore from the current to the proposed Policy overall decrease in Target Total Pay of more than 14% for Mr Blakemore under the proposed Policy compared to Mr Cousins under thecurrent Policy reduction in the proportion of pay which is received in year with a greater proportion received after five years three years performance period plus two years post vest holding reduction in pension provision from 35% to 20% of base salary increase to the LTIP opportunity of 26.25% of base salary at target and 50% of base salary at maximum increase in share ownership guidelines from 200% to 300% of salary for the Group CEO maintenance of pay positioning at the lower end of the market FTSE 50 excluding the financial service sector alternatives such as the introduction of an economic profit measure SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT or the replacement of the LTIP with a restricted share plan.
We In May 2017, we started our review process by inviting key investors considered the various alternatives and all the feedback from our to share their views on the existing remuneration arrangements at major shareholders, some of which was inconsistent, but, ultimately, Compass as part of an initial assessment process.
we concluded that the broad measures we use today ROCE, AFCF We reflected on their insight and then returned to them and a wider and TSR were appropriate for our strategy as these are measures group of major shareholders and their representative bodies in July bywhich we currently manage the business, and they have been and August.
We consulted extensively on a proposed draft Policy.
Shareholders generally welcomed the rebalanced package which We welcomed the open dialogue and constructive feedback would decrease fixed pay by reducing pension cash allowances or provided.
We returned to our major shareholders in October to contributions and increase the value that could be earned in the form explain how we had taken full account of it in our final proposals.
of shares through the LTIP opportunity.
They also supported This included for example, the introduction of a deferred element proposed increases to the share ownership guidelines.
tothe annual bonus plan as detailed in the at a glance summary onpage 73 and in the Policy.
We discussed in detail ways of ensuring that profitable growth is effectively incorporated in our incentives.
We considered alternative We have been pleased with the high levels of engagement from methods such as the inclusion of EPS when combined with a floor ourmajor shareholders and the new Policy has been shaped by underpin based on ROCE and some shareholders also suggested theirviews.
70 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTOR CHANGES CONCLUSION Details of the remuneration terms for Mr Blakemore, our incoming The Committee believes that the new Policy proposed will ensure Group CEO, are set out on page 81 and these are completely aligned that Compass has a remuneration framework which is fit for the to our proposed Policy as described above.
Mr Blakemores current foreseeable future.
Having engaged extensively with shareholders annual salary as Deputy CEO of 750,000 will be increased to a over the course of this review at critical points, we have taken a fully starting annual salary of 900,000 as Group CEO with effect from considered approach to devising these proposals.
Our proposed 1 April 2018, which is well below that of our outgoing Group CEO Policy will ensure that executive directors remuneration aligns with Richard Cousins and that of a fully experienced Group CEO leading a our strategic priorities of growing profitably in all of our businesses, company of the scale and complexity of Compass.
As a result, higher thus supporting the delivery of continued superior returns.
than average increases may apply in future to Mr Blakemores salary.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on both the Annual Upon becoming Group CEO under the new Policy, Mr Blakemore Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 and would see an immediate reduction to his pension cash allowance this new Remuneration Policy at our AGM to be held on 8 February from his current 35% to 20% per annum which would not be 2018.
If the Policy is approved at the 2018 AGM, it is intended that subject to phasing, will have a bonus opportunity of 200% and an it will remain in place until the 2021 AGM, when it will be again LTIP opportunity of 300% of base salary.
submitted to shareholders for approval.
The details of remuneration for Richard Cousins were disclosed The voting outcome at the 2017 AGM in respect of the Annual on 21 September 2017 and are also set out on page 92 and these Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2016 is are also in line with our existing Policy.
REWARDING PERFORMANCE IN 2016-2017 We were pleased to receive good shareholder support at our 2017 Compass has delivered another year of excellent performance AGM and I look forward to welcoming you and receiving your with organic revenue growth of 4% with strong net new business support once more.
in North America and a challenging but improving environment in Europe and Rest of World.
Our ongoing commitment to generating efficiencies continues to be supported by our Management and Performance MAP framework.
We are using these efficiencies to invest in exciting opportunities for growth around the Group.
For the annual bonus, we measure Group, and where relevant, regional Carol Arrowsmith performance.
This led to a range of bonus outcomes as set out in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Annual Remuneration Report.
21 November 2017 For the Long Term Incentive Plan, the TSR element was earned in th full because Compass ranked 13 against other FTSE 100 companies excluding financial service sector over the performance period.
The targets we set based on growth in ROCE and cumulative AFCF were demanding and were satisfied with 23.5% and 100% vesting respectively.
The Committee considers this outcome to be afair and balanced result.
Salary adjustments for executive directors are aligned with increases paid for other senior executives within the Group and specifically to employees within their region.
For Gary Green a salary increase of 4% is awarded with effect from January 2018.
As previously indicated, Johnny Thomson was appointed to the role of Group Finance Director below the market rate to reflect that this was his first PLC director role.
After another year of strong performance, MrThomson has been awarded an increase of 6% and this is the final stage of a phased set of increases to reach a competitive pay level.
No increase is proposed for Mr Cousins in his final year withCompass.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 71 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED At a glance REMUNERATION IN 2016-2017 MEASURING PERFORMANCE BONUS LTIP 1 MEASURING PERFORMANCE STRATEGIC KPI WEIGHTING WEIGHTING Growing and retaining our customer base and Organic Revenue Growth ORG 25% driving volumes Delivering profit from our operations Profit Before Interest & Tax PBIT 55% Turning profit into cash Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF 15% 33.3% Delivery against investments Return on Capital Employed ROCE 33.3% Effectiveness of our Safety First culture Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR 2.5% Providing safe food and of the right quality Food Safety Incident Rate FSIR 2.5% Delivering returns for shareholders Total Shareholder Return TSR 33.3% 1.
Based on Group performance measures.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES DOMINIC RICHARD GARY JOHNNY BLAKEMORE COUSINS GREEN THOMSON ELEMENT Base Salary at 1 January 2017 656,000 1,070,000 US$1,345,760 621,000 Pension % of base salary 35% 35% 35% 35% Benefits 16,000 42,000 US$72,000 21,000 Annual bonus % of max 14.70% 68.88% 98.72% 68.88% LTIP % of max 74.5% 74.5% 74.5% 74.5% ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOME LTIP OUTCOME Maximum of 200% of base salary for the Group CEO and 150% Maximum of 250% of base salary for the Group CEO and 200% for other executive directors which is paid in cash.
The results for other executive directors.
The results below represent the below represent the Groups results.
Dominic Blakemore and Groups results and are applicable to all executive directors.
Gary Green have regional performance outcomes as shown on page 87.
Group results PBIT AFCF AFCF ORG ROCE HSE TSR Threshold Target Max Threshold Target Max Health Safety and Environment HSE is the combined outcome of LTIFR and FSIR.
Group payout at 68.88% of maximum performance measured over period 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2017 regional payout of 14.70% to 98.72% of maximum bonus payout of 74.5% of maximum subject to malus and clawback two year holding period applies to vested shares subject to malus and clawback SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES with effect from 10 September 2017, the share ownership guidelines were increased for all executive directors to 200% of base salary.
This is an increase above the current Policy guidelines for the Group CEO at 200% and 150% of base salary for other executive directors all executive directors have shareholdings that are significantly higher than these guidelines 72 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY PROPOSAL 2018-2021 IMPLEMENTING THE PROPOSAL Our proposed Policy is designed to ensure remuneration arrangements are sufficiently attractive to retain the talented individuals who runthe business and to rebalance remuneration to decrease fixed pay and increase the value that could be earned in the form of shares which has better alignment with shareholders interests.
We believe that the best timing to change to our proposed rebalanced framework would be following Dominic Blakemores transition toGroup CEO on 1 April 2018.
Our Policy, if approved by shareholders, will be implemented for all executive directors from that date.
The chart below shows how the current structure operates for our Group CEO Richard Cousins based on his existing base salary and compares to the proposed structure which would operate for the new Group CEO Dominic Blakemore.
In the chart the proportion of eachremuneration element is shown as a percentage of the total to highlight how the rebalanced remuneration would work in practice and is based on total reward at maximum.
CURRENT AND PROPOSED REMUNERATION POLICY Total maximum package value m 43% 34% 6% Richard 17% Cousins 49% 32% 3% Dominic 16% Blakemore 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 Base salary Pension Annual bonus Long Term Incentive Plan 1.
The chart excludes benefits in kind as these may vary based on individual circumstances.
STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT In 2017-2018, there are no proposed changes to the annual bonus plan performance measures as they continue to support the strategy.
As detailed in the Policy section on pages 76 to 79, we propose an adjustment to the LTIP performance measures and weightings to provide better alignment to the Group strategy.
ANNUAL BONUS LTIP maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for the Group maximum opportunity increased to 300% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for other executive directors Group CEO and 250% of salary for other executive directors remains unchanged performance period of three years with a continuation of the introduce bonus deferral of one third of bonus into Deferred further two year post vesting holding period Bonus Shares for executives who have not achieved the pro rata all LTIP awards are subject to malus and clawback share ownership guideline, with all other payouts in cash adjustment to the ROCE performance measure from growth all cash bonus and Deferred Bonus Shares are subject to in ROCE to setting a ROCE target taking account of our strategy malus and clawback on the use of capital performance measures are unchanged change in the weighting of performance measures to increase the focus on responsible growth The illustration below is based on Group performance measures.
HSE HSE RELATIVE ORG PBIT AFCF ROCE AFCF LTIFR FSIR TSR 25% 55% 15% 40% 40% 2.5% 2.5% 20% Full disclosure of targets, and achievement against them, will be provided in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 73 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Governance Summary ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The key activities of the Committee during the year ended 30 The Board sets the Companys Remuneration Policy and the September 2017 are set out in the timeline below.
In addition, Committee is responsible, within the authority delegated by the the Committee also reviews performance under Group wide share Board, for determining specific remuneration packages and the plans and approves any discretionary matters for individuals below terms and conditions of employment for the members of the executive director level and considers other governance matters Executive Board, which comprises the executive directors and other on a regular basis.
The Committee ensures that the members of the Executive Board are provided with the appropriate incentives to enhance the Groups performance and to reward them for their NOV review of salary proposals for the Executive personal contribution to the success of the business.
The Committee Board effective from 1 January 2017 reviews the remuneration arrangements for Group employees whose salaries exceed a specified level and administers the Companys determination of the 2015-2016 performance share incentive plans.
The Committee has regard for the wider outcomes for the long term incentive and remuneration philosophy of the organisation when considering bonus plans executives packages.
The Committee also determines the approval of the draft Directors Remuneration Chairmans remuneration, although the Board itself determines the Report DRR for 2015-2016 level of fees paid to the non-executive directors.
No directors are determination of proposed bonus targets involved in determining their own remuneration.
The Committee for 2016-2017 maintains an active dialogue with shareholder representatives and determination of proposed targets under the its full terms of reference are set out on the Companys website at LTIP and other incentive schemes operating www.
below executive management level for The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive 2016-2017 directors, as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The Committee comprises Carol Arrowsmith, Chairman, and all the FEB update on compensation review for the other non-executive directors in office at the date of this Report.
wider workforce TheRemuneration Committee met six times during the year and appointment of Remuneration directors attendance can be found in the table below.
Committee advisors MEETINGS ATTENDANCE terms of reference of the review of the 1 NAME ATTENDANCE Directors' Remuneration Policy for 2018-2021 Carol Arrowsmith 6 of 6 John Bason 6 of 6 Stefan Bomhard 6 of 6 MAY review of existing Remuneration Policy 2 Susan Murray 2 of 2 and Framework Don Robert 6 of 6 review of LTIP Awards for global Nelson Silva 6 of 6 leadership team 3 Ireena Vittal 5 of 6 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings each director JUN review of remuneration practice in was eligible to attend.
Susan Murray stepped down from the Board and its committees at the North America conclusion of the Companys AGM on 2 February 2017.
An unscheduled meeting was called in June at short notice such that Mrs Vittal was unable to attend although Mrs Vittal was able to offer her input.
JUL review of the proposed Directors Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are set Remuneration Policy for 2018-2021 out on pages 48 and 49.
Mark White, the Group General Counsel and and shareholder consultation plans Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the Committee.
Robin Mills, Group HR Director and Lorna Benton, Group Reward Director attend Committee meetings by invitation to advise the Committee on SEPT review of terms of reference for the Committee Group policies and practice.
Details of advisors to the Committee can be found on page 94.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee determination of the Chairmans fee attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might consideration of the draft DRR for 2016-2017 be raised on the Committees activities.
update on the shareholder consultation in respect of the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy for 2018-2021 74 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND CONTENT OF THE DRR As for last year, this Directors Remuneration Report DRR has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Committee in accordance with the requirements of the CA 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations.
The policy on remuneration of directors the Policy is set out in pages 77 to 83.
A separate resolution Resolution 2 will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the CA 2006 and the 2013 Regulations to approve the Policy.
If approved, the Policy is expected to take effect from the date on which the Resolution is passed and remain in force for a minimum of three years.
The next two sections of the DRR cover the following matters: the Companys proposed remuneration policy from 8 February 2018 for the three years thereafter, including each of the components of directors remuneration the Policy Report including: how decisions on directors remuneration will be made and the philosophy and strategy behind those decisions the structure of remuneration packages for existing, departing and new directors the impact of key performance measures on the potential value of remuneration key contractual terms of existing and new directors how the Company engaged with major shareholders during thedevelopment of the new Policy how the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM was implemented in the year ended 30 September 2017 the Annual Remuneration Report and how the proposed Policy will be implemented in the next financial year Auditable disclosures are the directors single total figure of remuneration page 85, long term incentive awards page 88, extant equity incentive awards held by executive directors page 91, exit payments page 92, non-executive directors remuneration page 93 and directors interests page 93.
The key changes to the content of this Policy, compared to the existing version which has been in place since it was approved by shareholders in February 2015, are set out in the table on page 76.
The table summarises how the proposed Policy has been updated against each element of pay.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 75 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy Review SUMMARY OF CHANGES The table below provides a summary of the key changes proposed to the Policy as detailed in the tables on pages 78 and 79 for ease of reference.
REMUNERATION COMPONENT DESCRIPTION OF CHANGE BENEFITS AND PENSION future or newly promoted executive directors will be provided with a pension cash allowance or pension contribution as appropriate of 20% of base salary Proposed reduction to pension for incumbent UK executive directors the pension cash allowance will phase down from 35% to 20% in line with the level for Compass UK management.
The reduction will take place in increments of -5% per annum with effect from January 2019 the existing Group COO, North America will retain a pension cash allowance of 35% of base salary to ensure competitiveness ANNUAL BONUS bonus is typically paid in cash.
However, where executive directors have not achieved the pro rata minimum of the revised share ownership guidelines, one third of the bonus will be deferred into Proposed introduction of bonus shares which typically vest three years after grant Deferred Bonus Shares deferral in specific cash and Deferred Bonus Shares will be subject to malus and clawback circumstances a financial underpin may be operated LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN as part of a rebalanced package, the maximum share opportunity will be 300% of base salary for the Group CEO and 250% for other executive directors Proposed increase to maximum 40% of the shares vest based on performance against ROCE, 40% of the shares vest based on opportunity and reweighting performance against an AFCF range and 20% of the shares vest on the performance of relative of measures TSR against a peer group.
Performance is usually assessed over a three year performance period SHARE OWNERSHIP under the current Policy the Group CEO is required to hold a personal shareholding equal to 200% GUIDELINES of base salary and other executive directors are required to hold 150% of base salary.
Nonexecutive directors are required to hold a personal shareholding equal to the value of base fees Proposed increase for as a result of the 2017 review, to bring the guidelines into line with prevailing best practice, the executive directors Committee determined that, with effect from 10 September 2017, all executive directors would be required to hold a personal shareholding equal to the value of 200% of base salary as part of a rebalanced overall remuneration package, with effect from 1 April 2018, the share ownership guidelines will be further increased to align to the new LTIP opportunity of 300% for the Group CEO and 250% for other executive directors.
No changes are proposed to be made to the level of shareholding required for non-executive directors the required level of shareholding is expected to be achieved within a five year period, commencing from the date of appointment or date of change of LTIP opportunity, whichever is the later 76 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE Remuneration Policy This Report sets out our new Remuneration Policy.
We consulted shareholders extensively during 2017 when the Policy was being formulated for shareholders approval.
If this Policy is approved by shareholders, it will apply from 8 February 2018.
The previous remuneration policy for executive directors applied from the date of the 2015 AGM and will continue to apply until the 2018 AGM.
For unvested share awards only, the provisions of the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in 2015 will continue to apply until all long term incentive awards granted under that Policy have vested or lapsed.
The Committee reviewed the Companys remuneration philosophy and structure to ensure that remuneration supports the Companys strategic objectives, is in line with best practice and can fairly reward individuals for the contribution that they make to the business.
In doing this, we have regard to the size and complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and attract employees of the highest calibre.
Our new Policy is designed to maintain stability in the executive team and to ensure appropriate positioning against our comparator groups.
We believe our approach to be balanced and that it will stand the test of time.
The Committee considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market and economic conditions and to governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and remuneration packages ofexecutive directors and other members of the Executive Board.
Remuneration links corporate and individual performance with an appropriate balance between short and long term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The Policy is designed to incentivise executives to meet the Companys key objectives.
A significant portion of total remuneration is performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, understood and accepted by both executives and shareholders.
The Committee considers that the targets set for the different components of performance related remuneration are both appropriate and sufficiently demanding in the context of the business environment and the challenges which the Group faces as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
The Committee has the discretion to amend certain aspects of the Policy in exceptional circumstances when considered to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Should such discretion be used, this will be explained and reported in the DRR for the following year.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 77 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued COMPONENT PARTS OF THE REMUNERATION PACKAGE The key components of executive directors remuneration for the period from 8 February 2018 and beyond the Policy Period subject to shareholder approval are summarised below: COMPONENT AND LINK OPERATION OF COMPONENT MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY Base salaries are reviewed annually with Whilst there is no prescribed formulaic None.
BASE SALARY any increases normally taking effect on maximum, any increases will take into Reflects the individuals role, 1 January of each year.
Salaries are account prevailing market and experience and contribution.
appropriately benchmarked and reflect economic conditions as well as Set at levels to attract and the role, job size and responsibility increases for the wider workforce.
retain individuals of the calibre as well as the performance and required to lead the business.
Increases may be above this when an effectiveness of the individual.
executive director progresses in the role: gains substantially in experience: there is a significant increase in the scale of the role: or was appointed on a salary below the market median.
These will be appropriately explained in the relevant years annual report.
Benefits include, but are not limited The cost of providing these benefits None.
BENEFITS to, healthcare insurance for executive can vary in accordance with market AND PENSION directors and their dependants, limited conditions, which will, therefore, To provide a competitive level financial advice, life assurance and determine the maximum value.
For the Companys pension cash These are offered to executive allowance or pension contribution as directors as part of a competitive appropriate, from 1 April 2018 the remuneration package.
annual maximum will be 20% of base salary for new UK appointees and Executive directors are invited to 35% phasing down to 20% of base participate in the Companys defined salary for current UK based executive contribution pension scheme or to directors.
The reduction will take place take a cash allowance in lieu of over a three year period commencing pension entitlement.
The annual maximum cash allowance for Gary Green remains at 35% of base salary.
The annual bonus is earned by the The target award for the Group CEO is Performance is measured over the financial year.
ANNUAL BONUS achievement of one year performance 100% of base salary, with a further Performance measures are determined by the Incentivise and reward the targets set by the Committee at the start maximum of 100% for enhanced Committee each year and may vary to ensure that achievement of stretching one of each financial year and is delivered performance.
No bonus is payable for they promote the Companys business strategy and year key performance targets in cash or a combination of cash and below threshold performance but shareholder value.
set by the Committee at the Deferred Bonus Shares.
increases on a straight line basis to start of each financial year.
The performance measures and their percentage target payout and from target to The Committee retains the discretion weightings may vary, depending upon a directors maximum.
to adjust the bonus outcomes to area of responsibility.
ensure that they reflect underlying The target award for other executive Performance measures may include, but are not business performance.
directors is 75% of base salary, with limited to, profit, revenue, margin and cash flow.
a further maximum of 75% of base The annual bonus is subject to malus Strategic KPIs may also be chosen.
However, the salary available for enhanced and or clawback in the event of overall metrics would always be substantially performance.
No bonus is payable discovery of a material misstatement in weighted to financial measures.
for below threshold performance the accounts or in the assessment of a Annual bonus targets are set with reference to but increases on a straight line relevant performance condition or where internal budgets and analyst consensus forecasts, basis to target payout and from the action or conduct of a participant with maximum payout requiring performance well target to maximum.
amounts to fraud or serious misconduct ahead of budget.
or has a detrimental impact on the A bonus underpin may be operated so that the reputation of the Group.
bonus outcome is reduced if underpin performance is not met.
Bonus will be deferred when share ownership guidelines have not been met usually with a minimum level of deferral of one third of the bonus earned and typically deferred for a period of three years.
Dividend equivalents may be accrued on Deferred Bonus Shares.
Details of the specific measures and targets applying to each element of the bonus for the year being reported on are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 87.
78 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE COMPONENT AND LINK OPERATION OF COMPONENT MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES TO STRATEGY An annual conditional award of ordinary Awards may be made at the Performance is measured over three financial years.
LONG TERM shares which may be earned after a following levels of salary: INCENTIVE Performance measures are AFCF, ROCE and TSR, single three year performance period, Group Chief Executive: 300% with each applying 40%, 40% and 20% PLAN LTIP based on the achievement of stretching respectively.
Incentivise and reward Other executive directors: 250% performance conditions.
Executive executive directors for the Relative TSR is measured relative to the companies In exceptional circumstances, such directors normally hold vested LTIP delivery of longer term comprising the TSR comparator group at the start as the appointment of a new executive shares net of any shares sold to meet financial performance and of the period.
director, this could be increased to tax and social security liabilities for a shareholder value.
Any use of this period of two years post vesting.
LTIP targets are set with reference to internal exceptional limit would be Share-based to provide budgets and analysts consensus forecasts, with Calculations of the achievement of the appropriately explained.
alignment with shareholder maximum payment requiring performance well targets are independently performed interests.
For performance measures, other than and are approved by the Committee.
TSR, 0% of the award vests for below To ensure continued alignment between Details of the targets for LTIP awards vesting and Return on Capital threshold performance, increasing to executive directors and shareholders granted are set out as required in the Annual Employed ROCE 50% vesting on a straight line basis for interests, the Committee also reviews Remuneration Report on pages 89 and 90.
ROCE supports the strategic achievement of on target performance, the underlying financial performance focus on growth and margin For awards made prior to 8 February 2018, the increasing to maximum vesting on a of the Group and retains its discretion through ensuring that cash is award was based on AFCF over the three year straight line basis for achievement of to adjust vesting if it considers that reinvested to generate strong performance period, growth in ROCE and the maximum performance.
Companys TSR over the performance period The element of an award based on Dividend equivalents may be accrued relative to the companies comprising the TSR Adjusted Free Cash relative TSR will vest in full for top on the shares earned from LTIP awards.
comparator group at the start of the relevant period.
Flow AFCF quartile performance achievement Each measure being equivalent to one third of the Malus and clawback rules operate in The generation of cash is and 25% of that element of the award total award.
The Committee may fundamental to the ongoing will vest if performance is at the decide at any time before an award success of the Group and the median.
Awards will vest on a straight vests, or for a period of three years after use of AFCF as an LTIP line basis between median and top an award vests, that any participant will performance measure directly quartile performance achievement.
No be subject to malus and or clawback in aligns to this.
shares will be released for this element the event of discovery of a material of an award if the Companys TSR Relative Total misstatement in the accounts or in the performance is below the median.
Shareholder assessment of a relevant performance condition, or where the action or Return TSR conduct of a participant amounts to The third performance fraud or serious misconduct or has a measure of TSR provides detrimental impact on the reputation direct alignment between the of the Group.
interests of executive directors and shareholders.
Awards are delivered in shares.
However, the rules contain excepted provisions to deliver value in cash if necessary for example, due to securities laws, subject to the discretion of the Committee, determined at any time up to their release.
In the event of a change of control, any unvested awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and reduction on a time apportioned basis.
NOTES TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE The rationale for the changes in the remuneration Policy table is detailed in the introduction from the Chairman of the Committee on pages 68 and 69 and in the remuneration Policy review section on page 76.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy for example for tax, exchange control, regulatory or administrative purposes without obtaining shareholder approval.
The Directors Remuneration Policy differs from that of other members of the Executive Board solely in respect of quantum of the various components and remuneration.
Executive directors have a greater proportion of their total remuneration package at risk than other employees: however, the structure and principles of incentives are broadly consistent.
The wider employee population of the Group will receive remuneration that is considered to be appropriate in relation to their geographic location, level of responsibility and performance.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 79 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued CLOSED INCENTIVE PLANS SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES It is proposed that the LTIP described in the table on page 79 to be In order that their interests are linked with those of shareholders, known as The Compass Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2018 directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal will, subject to shareholder approval, be the primary form of equity shareholding in the Company.
incentive for executive directors in future years.
At the date of this As a result of the Remuneration Policy review, and to bring the Report, there are outstanding awards covering 1,625,718 shares shareownership guidelines the guidelines into line with prevailing which have been made to executive directors under the current long best practice, the Committee determined that, with effect from term incentive plan, being The Compass Group PLC Long Term 10September 2017, all executive directors will be required to hold Incentive Plan 2010. apersonal shareholding equal to the value of 200% of their annual base salary in shares.
All of the executive directors in office at the DILUTION LIMITS date of this change met this requirement.
All of the Companys equity based incentive plans incorporate the current Investment Association Share Capital Management As part of a rebalanced overall remuneration package, and subject to Guidelines IA Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall shareholder approval of the new Policy, with effect from 1 April 2018, dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a 10 year the requirement for the Group CEO will increase to a personal period in relation to the Companys issued share capital or reissue shareholding of 300% of base salary and 250% for all other of treasury shares, with a further limitation of 5% in any 10 year executive directors.
No changes are proposed to be made to the level period for executive plans.
of shareholding required for non-executive directors which remains as a personal shareholding equal to the value of their base fee.
The Committee monitors the position regularly, and prior to the making of any award, to ensure that the Company remains within The guideline shareholding may be achieved by executive directors these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by retaining shares received as a result of participating in the market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
The guideline specifically excludes the need 30 September 2017, the Company held 8,228,176 treasury shares.
to make a personal investment should awards not vest.
NonDuring the financial year ended 30 September 2017, 3,013,283 executive directors are generally expected to purchase shares treasury shares were utilised for satisfying the Companys obligations equating to a minimum value of one third of their net of tax fee each under the Groups employee equity incentive schemes.
As at 30 year until the guideline is met.
The required level of executive September 2017, the Companys headroom position, which remains shareholding is expected to be achieved within a five year period, within the current IA Guidelines, was as shown in the charts below: commencing from the date of appointment or date of change of LTIP opportunity, whichever is the later.
HEADROOM AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 Directors shareholdings are reviewed annually by the Committee 10% IN 10 YEARS to ensure that directors are on course to achieve their guideline shareholding within the period required.
However, if it becomes apparent to the Committee that the guideline is unlikely to be met Headroom 1.25% within the timeframe, then the Committee will discuss with the Discretionary options director a plan to ensure that the guideline is met over an acceptable LTIP timeframe.
The granting of future LTIP awards to an executive 1.70% director will be conditional upon reaching the appropriate threshold in the required timeframe.
Where executive directors have not 7.05% achieved the minimum guideline effective for the period, one third oftheir cash bonus will be deferred into shares for three years.
Details of the interests of directors in shares and equity incentives are set out on page 93, together with the extent to which each of 5% IN 10 YEARS thedirectors has complied with the current guidelines as at 30September 2017.
Headroom Discretionary options 1.25% LTIP 2.05% 1.70% 80 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF THE NEW REMUNERATION POLICY The graphs below show an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by executive directors in office at 1 April 2018 under the Policy set out in this Report for 2017-2018.
Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of remuneration payable, remuneration payable at target and at maximum performance to each director under the Policy.
As the proposed Policy provides for a rebalanced overall remuneration package which would be implemented following a change in executive leadership, the graphs below illustrate the elements ofthe Policy which would be applicable following its approval at the 2018 AGM.
Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration, the annual bonus and the LTIP.
1 DOMINIC BLAKEMORE GARY GREEN Illustration of package m Illustration of package m Maximum 20% 32% 48% 5,596,313 Maximum 26% 28% 46% 5,923,831 Target 3,413,813 Target 3,799,003 32% 26% 42% 40% 22% 38% Minimum 100% 1,096,313 Minimum 100% 1,537,089 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 0.0 2.0 4.0 6.0 JOHNNY THOMSON Illustration of package m Maximum 26% 28% 46% 3,541,588 Target 40% 22% 38% 2,266,713 Minimum 909,588 100% 0.0 2.0 4.0 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP The scenarios in the above graphs are defined asfollows: FIXED ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION fixed pay includes annual base salary, pension and benefits annual base salary as at 1 April 2018 value of benefits as noted in the single figure table on page 85 pension cash allowance as at 1 April 2018 at the proposed Policy level MINIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGET PERFORMANCE MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE ANNUAL BONUS 0% 50% 100% payout as a % maximum opportunity 2 LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 0% 52.5% 100% vesting as a % maximum opportunity 1.
Note that Gary Greens elements of pay are converted into sterling with an exchange rate of US$1.2762 1 as used elsewhere in the Annual Report.
Based on AFCF and ROCE performance measures vesting at 50% of maximum and the TSR measure paying out at 62.5% of maximum midway between threshold and maximum payout.
No share price growth or dividend accrual has been incorporated in the values relating to LTIP.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 81 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the It is the Companys policy that executive directors have rolling Policy Period as that which applies to existing executive directors service contracts.
when considering the recruitment of a new executive director in The current executive directors service contracts contain the key respect of most elements of remuneration, that is: base salary, terms shown in the table below: pension and benefits, and short and long term incentives.
New UK executive directors will, however, be provided with a pension cash SERVICE CONTRACT KEY TERMS BY PROVISION allowance or contribution of 20% of base salary in line with the PROVISION DETAILED TERMS level of pension provided to Compass UK management.
It is REMUNERATION base salary, pension and benefits envisaged that the maximum level of variable remuneration which company car or cash allowance may be granted to a new executive director would be within plan family private health insurance rules and identical to the Policy maximum opportunity for existing executive directors and the Group CEO.
However, in exceptional life assurance circumstances such as the recruitment of a new executive director, financial planning advice a maximum LTIP award of up to 400% of base salary may be 25 days paid annual leave awarded.
Additionally, to support the successful building up of participation in the annual bonus plan, ashareholding in compliance with the revised share ownership subject to plan rules guidelines, executives will also be required to have one third of theirannual bonus deferred into shares when the share ownership participation in the LTIP, subject to guideline is not achieved.
The required level of shareholding is plan rules expected to be achieved within a five year period, commencing CHANGE OF no special contractual provisions apply fromthe date of appointment or date of change of LTIP opportunity, CONTROL in the event of a change of control whichever is the later.
NOTICE PERIOD 12 months notice from the Company Other arrangements may be established specifically to facilitate 6 months notice from the director recruitment of a particular individual, albeit that any such 12 months from Richard Cousins and arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the Dominic Blakemore cost to the Company.
The policy for the recruitment of executive TERMINATION Payment in lieu of notice equal to: directors during the Policy Period includes the facility to provide PAYMENT 12 months base salary alevel of compensation for forfeiture of bonus entitlements and or pension supplement unvested long term incentive awards from an existing employer, if any, and the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and 10% of base salary in respect of benefits other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, All of the above would be paid in monthly as may be required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
instalments, subject to an obligation on the Any arrangement established specifically to facilitate the recruitment part of the director to mitigate his loss such of a particular individual would be intended to be of comparable that payments will either reduce, or cease form, timing, commercial value and capped as appropriate.
The completely, in the event that the director quantum, form and structure of any buyout arrangement will be gains new employment remuneration determined by the Committee taking into account the terms of the RESTRICTIVE during employment and for 12 months previous arrangement being forfeited.
The buyout may be structured COVENANTS after leaving as an award of cash or shares.
However, the Committee will normally have a preference for replacement awards to be made in The historic policy on the payment of bonus on termination, which the form of shares, deliverable no earlier than the previous awards.
was in place prior to June 2008, was the provision of a payment, Where an executive director is appointed from either within the at par or target, of bonus in respect of the notice period, where the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation, the normal Company exercised its right to make a payment in lieu of notice.
policy would be to honour any legacy incentive arrangements to run Messrs Cousins and Greens service contracts are based on this off in line with the original terms and conditions.
When introducing the revised policy in June 2008 The policy on the recruitment of new non-executive directors during and after careful consideration, the Committee concluded that it the Policy Period would be to apply the same remuneration elements wasnot in shareholders interests to migrate such contracts onto the as for the existing non-executive directors.
It is not intended that amended policy.
Dominic Blakemore and Johnny Thomsons service variable pay, cash supplements, day rates or benefits in kind be contracts fully comply with the policy in effect from June 2008.
All offered, although in exceptional circumstances such remuneration executive directors service contracts impose a clear obligation to may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances.
mitigate such payment should a departing executive director take on new employment or receive alternative remuneration.
The Committee will include in annual reports details of the implementation of the Policy as utilised during the Policy Period All of the executive directors service contracts, with the exception in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
ofthat of Johnny Thomson who was appointed to the Board on 1December 2015, and Dominic Blakemore whose service contract was restated with effect from 1 October 2017, were entered into 82 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE before 27 June 2012 and have not been modified or renewed on Chairman at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 6February or after that date.
As such, remuneration payments or payments 2014.
Mr Walsh completed his first three year term as Chairman on for loss of office that are required to be made under them are not 6 February 2017.
This was extended on 21 September 2016 for a required to be but are consistent with the current and proposed further three year term.
Johnny Thomson and Dominic Blakemores service contracts NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION fully comply with the current and, subject to its adoption, the The fees for the non-executive directors are reviewed and proposed Policy.
determined by the Board each year to reflect appropriate market Whilst unvested awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in conditions and may be increased if considered appropriate.
its absolute discretion allow for awards to continue until the normal No increase was effected during the year under review.
The fees for vesting date and be satisfied or to be accelerated for example the year ended 30 September 2017 comprised a base fee of 84,000 ondeath, subject to achievement of the attendant performance per annum, which includes membership of the Audit, Corporate conditions.
In such circumstances, awards vesting will normally Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Subject to a cap on the maximum amount of fees payable to any non-executive director of 125,000 per annum, an additional fee Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied by of 27,000, 25,000 and 15,000 per annum is payable where a the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued non-executive director acts as Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration participation is justified, for example, by reference to performance or Corporate Responsibility Committee respectively.
An additional prior to the date of leaving.
The malus and clawback provisions would fee of 27,000 per annum is also payable to the director nominated continue to apply in the event that any such discretion was exercised.
as Senior Independent Director SID.
Non-executive directors are Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid to not eligible for pension scheme membership, bonus, incentive the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be arrangements or other benefits, save reimbursement of travel costs.
adjusted from year to year.
Following a market review, with effect from 1 October 2017, the annual fees payable for chairing the Audit, Remuneration and The senior executives who are members of the Executive Board, and Corporate Responsibility Committees were increased to 30,000, who are referred to in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements 30,000 and 20,000 per annum respectively and to 30,000 per on page 125, have similar service contracts.
annum for the director nominated as the SID.
The executive directors in office at the date of this Report have Non-executive directors have letters of engagement setting out their served on the Board for the periods shown below and have service duties and the time commitment expected.
They are appointed for agreements dated as follows: an initial period of three years, after which the appointment is LENGTH OF BOARD renewable at three year intervals by mutual consent.
In accordance SERVICE AS AT DATE OF CONTRACT 30 SEPT 2017 with the Code, all directors offer themselves for annual re-election by Dominic Blakemore 12 December 2011 5 years, 7 months shareholders.
Details of non-executive directors in office at the date 7 November 2017 of this Report appointments, which are terminable without Richard Cousins 22 November 2007 11 years, 5 months compensation, are set out in the table below, together with the dates on which their appointments have been formally revised: Gary Green 27 November 2007 10 years, 9 months Johnny Thomson 23 September 2015 1 year, 9 months TOTAL LENGTH NON-EXECUTIVE ORIGINAL DATE OF LETTER OF OF SERVICE AS AT DIRECTOR APPOINTMENT ENGAGEMENT 30 SEPT 2017 Appointment was formally revised from 1 October 2017.
Carol Arrowsmith 1 Jun 2014 14 May 2014 3 years, 8 Mar 2017 4 months CHAIRMAN John Bason 21 Jun 2011 10 May 2011 6 years, The fee for the Chairman is reviewed annually by the Committee 8 May 2014 4 months with any increase taking effect on 1 October.
In addition to his 8 Mar 2017 annual fee, the Chairman is paid a cash sum in lieu of provision by Stefan Bomhard 5 May 2016 5 May 2016 1 year, the Company of a car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
4 months The Chairman is not entitled to any benefits in kind and is not Don Robert 8 May 2009 8 May 2009 8 years, eligible for pension scheme membership, bonus or incentive arrangements.
The Chairmans appointment is terminable without 9 May 2012 4 months 10 Mar 2015 compensation on six months notice from either side.
Following consideration by the Committee, the Chairmans fee of 510,000 Nelson Silva 16 July 2015 16 July 2015 2 years, per annum was increased to 540,000 per annum from 2 months 1October2017.
The 50,000 cash sum in lieu of the provision of a Ireena Vittal 16 July 2015 16 July 2015 2 years, car and chauffeur was removed from such date and costs in relation 2 months to business and commuting will be reimbursed.
Date on which appointment was formally revised.
The Chairman has a letter of engagement dated 19 June 2013 in respect of his original appointment as a non-executive director for a period of three years from 1 January 2014.
Mr Walsh became Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 83 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report REMUNERATION IN DETAIL FOR THE YEAR ENDED PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF 30SEPTEMBER 2017 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR In the year ended 30 September 2017, Mr Cousins received 2.6% salary more and 17.8% bonus less than the equivalent amounts The performance graph below shows the Companys TSR forthe year ended 30 September 2016.
He received 7.7% more performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 over the intaxable benefits in 2016-2017 than in the previous year.
The nine year period to 30 September 2017.
The FTSE 100 Index has percentage changes for all full-time equivalent employees based been chosen as a broad equity market index of which the Company inthe UK were nil, 2.3 % and 1.9% respectively.
The UK employee has been a constituent member throughout the period.
workforce was chosen as the most suitable comparator group as TOTAL RETURN INDICES COMPASS VS FTSE 100 MrCousins is based in the UK and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
However, 600 thenature of Mr Cousins global role and responsibilities makes meaningful comparisons with any group of employees difficult 500 anddue caution should be exercised in this regard.
We acknowledge a growing desire for companies to disclose pay 400 ratios.
We are committed to such a disclosure, albeit creating  with more than 550,000 employees inaround50 countries is complex.
300 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY 200 The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, dividends and total employee costs for the years ended 30 100 September 2016 and 2017.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 2016 CHANGE September DISPERSALS M M % Compass FTSE 100 1 Share buybacks 19 100 81 2 PAY FOR PERFORMANCE Dividends paid 531 496 7.1 3 The Committee believes that the executive director remuneration Special dividend 1,003 Nil n a 4 policy and the supporting reward structure provide a clear alignment Total employee costs 10,236 8,909 14.9 with the strategic objectives and performance of the Company.
From 1 October 2016 to 21 April 2017 the Company repurchased and To maintain this relationship, the Committee regularly reviews the 5 subsequently cancelled 1,340,344 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence for a business priorities and the environment in which the Company consideration of 19 million including expenses.
The table below shows Richard Cousins total remuneration 35 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence were repurchased in connection with the approximate 1 billion Shareholder Return more details of which may be over the last nine years and his achieved annual variable and long found on page 184 for a consideration of 582 including expenses.
Of these, term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan maxima.
10 shares were held in treasury and the remaining 25 shares were cancelled.
On 26 June 2017, in connection with the Shareholder Return, the Companys ANNUAL VARIABLE 5 ELEMENT: AWARD LTIP VESTING entire share capital was consolidated such that for every 26 existing 10 8 pence 1 SINGLE FIGURE PAYOUT AGAINST RATES AGAINST ordinary shares held, shareholders received 25 new ordinary shares of 11 20 OF TOTAL MAXIMUM MAXIMUM pence.
As at the date of this Report there are 1,589,736,625 ordinary shares REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY OPPORTUNITY 1 1 of11 20 pence in issue and 8,182,749 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence held 000 % % intreasury for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations under 1 2017 5,617 68.9 74.5 employee equity incentive schemes.
Shares held in treasury are not eligible toparticipate in dividends and do not carry any voting rights.
The total dividend paid during the year ended 30 September 2016 was 3 2015 5,325 88.7 79 496 million and share capital in issue on that date was 1,654 million ordinary 5 4 shares of 10 8 pence each.
The total dividend paid during the year ended 2014 6,298 87.3 100 30September 2017 excluding the Shareholder Return was 531 million 5 2013 5,532 84.5 98 andthe share capital in issue on that date was 1,589 million ordinary shares 1 6 of11 20 pence.
The full year dividend per ordinary share for the year ended 2012 4,867 71.8 100 30September 2017 increased by 5.7%.
The Company returned approximately 1 billion to shareholders in July 2017 2010 5,614 96.0 100 by way of a special dividend.
This was accompanied by the Share Capital Consolidation referred to in note 1 above.
Total employee costs includes wages and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all employees, including 1.
Includes LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.665 million.
The average number of employees, including directors and part-time 2.
LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.590 million was disclosed in the employees in operations during 2017 was 588,112 2016: 527,180.
LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.120 million was disclosed in the 2015 Annual Report.
LTIP indicative vesting amount of 3.643 million was disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.
LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.960 million was disclosed in the 2013 Annual Report.
LTIP indicative vesting amount of 2.451 million was disclosed in the 2012 Annual Report.
84 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, received by each of the executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2017.
Gary Greens base salary of US$1,345,760 and his other emoluments are shown in sterling at an exchange rate of US$1.2762 1 2016: US$1.4218 1.
In US$ terms Gary Greens base salary was paid at the annual rate of US$1,294,000 from 1 January 2016 and US$1,345,760 from 1 January 2017, being an increase of 4%.
Johnny Thomson was appointed as a director of the Company with effect from 1 December 2015.
The amounts disclosed for 2016 for fixed and performance related pay have been prorated to reflect this time in office during 2015-2016.
Salary increases of 2.5%, 2.4%, 4% and 8% for Messrs Blakemore, Cousins, Green and Thomson respectively, were implemented on 1 January 2017 as disclosed inthe 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
The percentage increase in Mr Thomsons base salary reflected his progression and experience in the role.
Taxable benefits comprise healthcare insurance, limited financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
In the financial year 2015-2016, Mr Thomson also received a relocation allowance from Brazil to the UK of 50,000 grossed up, which is included in the table above.
In accordance with the current Policy, a pension cash allowance of 35% of base salary was paid in monthly instalments in lieu of pension participation.
Details of the performance measures and weighting as well as the achieved results for the bonus and LTIP components are shown on pages 87 to 90.
LTIP 2017: the amount shown is the indicative value based on the average market price of Compass Group PLC shares over the three month period from 1 July to 30 September 2017 1,615 pence of LTIPs that have become receivable as a result of the achievement of conditions relating to the performance in the three years ended 30 September 2017.
LTIP award vested in 2016: the amount shown is the indicative value based on the average market price of Compass Group PLC shares over the three month period from 1 July to 30 September 2016.
The actual value subsequently received by Messrs Blakemore, Cousins and Green based on a sales price of 13.530862 on 23 November 2016 was 892,482, 2,393,637 and 1,389,985 respectively.
Mr Thomson disposed of 5,796 shares on the same day at a sales price of 13.530862 for which he received 78,425 to settle tax and social security obligations.
Theoretically, if Mr Thomson had chosen to sell all of the resulting shares, he would have received the notional value of 516,351.
Theoretically, if all of the directors had chosen to dispose of their LTIP awards which vested in 2016 in full, this would have equated to a combined total of 5,192,455 which is approximately 427,000 less than the indicative value reported.
Mr Thomson had an interest in 10,622 shares that were awarded conditionally in connection with a below board plan prior to his appointment as a director of the Company.
Mr Thomson elected to keep these shares net of those sold to settle resulting tax and social security obligations.
HadMr Thomson sold his shares, he would have received a notional gain of 146,584 which is based on the closing share price of 1,380.00 pence per share at the dateprior to the release of his award.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 85 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report continued The annual rate of base salaries of the executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2017 was: DIRECTOR BASE SALARY EFFECTIVE DATE INCREASE REASON Dominic Blakemore 656,000 1 January 2017 2.5% Relevant peer market & performance Richard Cousins 1,070,000 1 January 2017 2.4% Relevant peer market & performance Gary Green $1,345,760 1 January 2017 4% Relevant peer market & performance 1 Johnny Thomson 621,000 1 January 2017 8% Progression in role, gain in experience 1.
Johnny Thomson was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2015.
Prior to the appointment being made, the Committee asked  LLP to perform a benchmarking review of salaries for peer roles in FTSE 50 companies excluding the financial service sector.
In line with the Policy in operation at that time, the Committee adopted a balanced approach when determining the level of remuneration to be paid, having regard to the findings of the benchmarking report and bearing in mind that it was Mr Thomsons first role as a Group Finance Director of a listed company.
His base salary on appointment was set at 575,000 per annum, below the median for comparable FTSE 50 roles, with the aim of making incremental increases if considered appropriate to reflect experience and progression in the roleand to bring Mr Thomsons base salary in line with that of his FTSE peers.
The proposed annual rate of base salaries of the executive directors in office as at the effective dates set out below are: DIRECTOR BASE SALARY EFFECTIVE DATE INCREASE REASON 1 Dominic Blakemore 750,000 1 October 2017 14.3% Promotion to Deputy Group CEO Richard Cousins 1,070,000 1 January 2018 0% Prospective retirement Gary Green $1,399,590 1 January 2018 4% Relevant peer market & performance 2 Johnny Thomson 658,000 1 January 2018 6% Progression in role, gain in experience 1.
As announced on 21 September 2017, Mr Blakemore will receive a base salary increase to 900,000 per annum with effect from 1 April 2018 upon his promotion to Group CEO.
Johnny Thomsons base salary from 1 January 2018 reflects the final stage of an incremental approach to salary adjustments reflecting progression in the role and growth in his experience since last year.
Please refer to note 1 in the table above.
Non-executive directors receive fees only, which are shown on page 93, together with the Chairmans fees and benefits.
The aggregate total amount of remuneration received by all directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2017 is shown below: 2017 2016 000 000 Executive directors 14,670 15,434 Chairman and non-executive directors 1,187 1,200 Total 15,857 16,634 2016-2017 BONUS The financial targets for the bonus for the year ended 30 September 2017, and the extent to which they were achieved, were as set out on page 87.
It is intended to continue to disclose Group and regional targets, as set out below, on a retrospective basis.
The achievement of targets is calculated on a straight line basis between Minimum and Target par and between Target par and Maximum.
As was the case for previous years, the measurement of the achievement of the AFCF and PBIT results is based on the underlying outcome achieved in the financial year, with gains losses attributable to currency movements, charges and the impacts of restructuring and or acquisitions disposals usually being excluded.
86 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE 2016-2017 TARGETS RICHARD COUSINS AND JOHNNY THOMSON 1 FINANCIAL MEASURES % WEIGHTING MINIMUM PAR TARGET MAXIMUM ACHIEVED 2 PBIT 55 1,496.0m 1,526.7m 1,557.0m 1,541.5m 3 AFCF 15 853.0m 879.0m 905.0m 876.25m 4 ORG 25 2.7% 3.7% 4.7% 4.2% GROUP HSE IMPROVEMENT TARGET ACHIEVED ACHIEVED 10 Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 2.5 4.25 3.67 Yes Food Safety Incident Rate 2.5 0.31 0.31 Yes DOMINIC BLAKEMORE 1 FINANCIAL MEASURES % WEIGHTING MINIMUM PAR TARGET MAXIMUM ACHIEVED 2 PBIT 5 1,496.0m 1,526.7m 1,557.0m 1,541.5m 5 RPBIT 50 411.8m 415.9m 420.1m 404.8m 6,11 MAWC 15 172.8m 182.8m 202.8m 190.1m 7 RORG 25 1.4% 2.4% 3.4% 1.8% EUROPE HSE IMPROVEMENT TARGET ACHIEVED ACHIEVED 10 Regional Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 2.5 5.85 4.98 Yes Regional Food Safety Incident Rate 2.5 0.35 0.39 No GARY GREEN 1 FINANCIAL MEASURES % WEIGHTING MINIMUM PAR TARGET MAXIMUM ACHIEVED 2 PBIT 5 1,496.0m 1,526.7m 1,557.0m 1,541.5m 5 RPBIT growth 55 6.7% 7.1% 7.6% 7.6% 6 MAWC 15 $ 361.9 m $ 381.9 m $ 391.9 m $ 450.9 m 7 RORG 25 5.5% 6.0% 7.0% 7.1% NORTH AMERICA HSE IMPROVEMENT HSE for the North American business is measured through North American underlying PBIT.
Financial measures for 2016-2017 bonus purposes are all set at 2017 foreign exchange budget rates, not actuals.
PBIT is underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax Group.
AFCF is Adjusted Free Cash Flow Group.
ORG is Organic Revenue Growth Group.
RPBIT is underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax for Region of responsibility.
MAWC is 10 months 12 months Average Working Capital Balance for region of responsibility for Mr Green and Mr Blakemore respectively.
The 2016-2017 target for MrGreen for MAWC is based on an improvement in the value of MAWC over the period of 10 months.
RORG is Organic Revenue Growth for Region of responsibility.
Messrs Blakemore, Cousins, Green and Thomsons entitlements to any bonus related to the achievement of AFCF and PBIT were adjusted, in accordance with the established framework to exclude all unbudgeted M&A spend together with routine restructuring costs.
HSE for the North American business is measured through North American underlying PBIT.
Messrs Blakemore, Cousins and Thomsons entitlements to bonus related to the achievement of LTIFR related targets were reduced to zero to recognise that the Group had suffered two fatalities during the year in its Europe business which had occurred whilst each employee had been at work, albeit that management were not considered to be culpable.
This recognises the seriousness with which the Company takes HSE outcomes.
Mr Blakemores bonus in respect of MAWC and Group PBIT was reduced to par, owing to the RPBIT measure not being achieved at minimum.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 87 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report continued 2016-2017 BONUS PAYOUT The outcome of the annual bonus for the year ended 30 September 2017 was due to the continued strong underlying financial performance aligned with the delivery of the Groups long term strategy.
The table below shows the resulting payout to each executive director in office during the year in such capacity: 2016-2017 BONUS PAYMENT AS AT 30 SEPT 2017 AS % OF BASE SALARY VALUE OF BONUS Dominic Blakemore 22.05% 144,648 Richard Cousins 137.76% 1,474,032 Gary Green 148.08% US$1,992,801 Johnny Thomson 103.32% 641,617 No discretion was applied by the Committee in respect of the directors bonuses for the year under review.
The rules of the current annual bonus plan do not include any deferment of payment.
2017-2018 BONUS PERFORMANCE MEASURES The annual bonus performance measures for executive directors for the year ending 30 September 2018 are unchanged.
Underlying PBIT split between Group PBIT and PBIT for Region of responsibility for Mr Green: 5% Group 55%Regional.
MAWC for Region of responsibility.
The 2017-2018 target for Mr Green for MAWC is based on an improvement in the value of MAWC over the period of10 months.
HSE for the North American business is measured through North American underlyingPBIT.
Bonus payments may be reduced if the Remuneration Committee is not satisfied with the underlying financial performance of the Group.
The Committee has set the targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ending 30 September 2018 but has chosen not to disclose the details in this Report, as it is the opinion of the Committee that it may be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the Company to do so, and ourmajor competitors do not disclose their targets or projected forecasts.
However, the specific targets and the extent to which the targets have been met both at Group and Regional levels will be disclosed in next yearsReport.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARDS During the year ended 30 September 2017, executive directors received a conditional award of shares which may vest after a three year performance period which will end on 30 September 2019, based on the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
The maximum levels achievable under these awards are set out in the table below: 1 LTIP AWARD FACE VALUE OF AWARD DIRECTOR AS A % OF BASE SALARY 000 Dominic Blakemore 200% 1,280 Richard Cousins 250% 2,612 Gary Green 200% 1,820 Johnny Thomson 200% 1,150 6,862 1.
Face value of award as at the date of grant on 23 November 2016 is based on the closing market price of 1,326.00 pence per share on 22 November 2016.
Executive directors are required to hold vested awards for a period of two years following vesting so as to further strengthen the long term alignment of executives remuneration packages with shareholders interests and, if required, to facilitate the implementation of provisions related to malus and clawback.
88 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE The table below sets out the performance measures for the awards under the Policy in operation during the financial year under review: DEFINITION OF MEASURE ROCE The definition aims to measure the underlying economic performance of the Company.
ROCE is calculated at the end of the three year performance period as net underlying operating profit after tax NOPAT divided by 12 month average capital employed see page 195 for full definitions.
Adjusted FCF The definition aims to measure the cash generation of the Company and is calculated as the three year cumulative underlying FCF see page 195 for full definition adjusted for constant currency.
TSR Performance is compared to that of constituent members of the FTSE 100 excluding the financial service sector.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares during the three year performance period.
In setting the performance targets, the Committee considers internal budgets and the Groups strategic plan, market expectations and general economic conditions.
The table below shows the targets against which performance has been measured to determine the vesting of the grant of awards for the year ended 30 September 2017 and forms part of the Policy detailed in the Policy Report on pages 62 to 68 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
TARGETS FOR AWARDS VESTED IN THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 ROCE target LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE THRESHOLD MAXIMUM ACHIEVED Vesting % of each component 0% 100% 23.5% As at date of Award 19.0% 20.4% 1 Reconciled at the end of the performance period 20.22% 21.67% 20.56% AFCF target LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE THRESHOLD MAXIMUM ACHIEVED Vesting % of each component 0% 100% 100% AFCF 2,231m 2,465m 2,478m TSR target LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE BELOW MEDIAN MEDIAN UPPER QUARTILE ACHIEVED Vesting % of each component 0% 25% 100% 100% 1.
ROCE targets are updated at the end of the performance period to reflect actual acquisition spend and constant currency.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PERFORMANCE 23.5% of the ROCE, 100% of the AFCF and 100% of the TSR performance measures were achieved at the end of the three year performance period, such that 74.5% of the LTIP awards made during the 2014-2015 financial year vested.
Shares will be delivered to individuals following the release of the preliminary results for the year ended 30 September 2017.
The Committee applied the established framework to deal with items that were unforeseen at the time the targets were set in 2014-2015 and which were in the long term interests of shareholders.
AFCF was adjusted to exclude a payroll timing distortion, a one-off supplementary contribution to the US pension plan and restructuring in the Defence, Offshore & Remote business.
AFCF was also adjusted to reflect the reduction in pension deficit contributions to the UK pension scheme to ensure management did not benefit from this reduction.
Both the ROCE and AFCF measures were adjusted to exclude a one-off capital investment in the Defence, Offshore & Remote business and restructuring in Europe to reflect trading conditions.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 89 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report continued 2014-2015 LTIP PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 AND VESTED 21 NOVEMBER 2017 PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS VALUE OF NUMBER OF SHARES 2 TSR % VESTED ROCE % VESTED AFCF % VESTED SHARES NUMBER OF ON VESTING 1 DIRECTOR ON MATURITY ON MATURITY ON MATURITY AWARDED SHARES VESTED 000 Dominic Blakemore 100% 23.5% 100% 104,802 78,077 1,261 Richard Cousins 100% 23.5% 100% 221,475 164,998 2,665 Gary Green 100% 23.5% 100% 130,785 97,434 1,574 3 Johnny Thomson 100% 23.5% 100% 42,870 31,938 516 th 1.
TSR ranking was 13 in its comparator group.
The value of the shares on vesting has been calculated by reference to the average market price of Compass Group PLC shares over the three months from 1 July to 30 September 2017 of 1,615 pence per share.
Mr Thomsons award which vested on 21 November 2017 was awarded to him prior to his appointment to the Board and is therefore not subject to a two year post vest holding period.
The table below shows the targets against which performance will be measured to determine the vesting of the grant of awards to be made in the year ending 30 September 2018 and forms part of the Policy detailed in the Policy Report on pages 77 to 79 which is intended to be implemented by the Committee, subject to the passing of Resolution 2 at the Companys AGM on 8 February 2018.
TARGETS FOR AWARDS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 ROCE AND AFCF TARGETS VESTING % OF EACH LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE COMPONENT ROCE AFCF Threshold 0% 18.78% 3,095m Par target 50% 19.30% 3,258m Maximum 100% 19.82% 3,421m TSR TARGET VESTING % OF EACH LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE COMPONENT Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper Quartile 100% The vesting of the shares under each performance condition is independent.
Therefore, the total vesting amount is based on the relevant percentage achievement for each performance measure.
Awards vest on a straight line basis between Threshold and Par and between Par and Maximum.
If performance under a component does not exceed the Threshold level, vesting for that component will be nil.
At the end of the performance period, the Committee will review the underlying financial performance of the Company and retains its discretion to adjust vesting if it considers that financial performance is unsatisfactory.
The Committee considers the measures and targets set in respect of 2017-2018 to be appropriate and challenging.
Calculations of the achievement of the targets will be independently performed and approved by the Committee.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust for material events which occur during the performance period and the nature of any such adjustments will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, together with details of the achieved ROCE, AFCF and TSR performance, as determined by the above definitions, at the end of the performance period.
The table below sets out the percentage of each LTIP award made to executive directors within the last four years which has vested: MATURITY PERFORMANCE ROCE % VESTED AFCF% VESTED TSR % VESTED YEAR OF AWARD DATE CONDITIONS ON MATURITY ON MATURITY ON MATURITY 2011-2012 1 Oct 2014 AFCF TSR n a 100% 100% 2012-2013 1 Oct 2015 ROCE AFCF TSR 74% 78% 85% 2013-2014 1 Oct 2016 ROCE AFCF TSR 60.7% 92.7% 100% 2014-2015 1 Oct 2017 ROCE AFCF TSR 23.5% 100% 100% 90 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE EXTANT EQUITY INCENTIVE AWARDS HELD BY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of all existing equity incentive awards as at the date of this Report, including the awards conditionally made under the long term incentive plans to the executive directors at any time during the year ended 30 September 2017, are shown in the table below.
One third of each award granted is based on a three year performance period, one third on a ROCE target, one third on AFCF and one third on growth in the CompanysTSR relative to the FTSE 100, excluding the financial service sector.
The performance period of the award granted on 29 November 2013 came to an endon30 September 2016.
This award vested in part at 84.5% of the maximum award.
The shares disclosed as lapsed during the year represent the proration of theoriginal award.
The aggregate gross gain realised by Messrs Blakemore, Cousins and Green in the year ended 30 September 2017 was 4,676,104 2015-2016: 4,233,227 based on a sale price of 1,353.0862 pence per share on 23 November 2016.
So as to continue to build up his holding in accordance with the Companys share ownership guidelines, Mr Thomson elected to sell only sufficient shares released to him under the 2013-2014 LTIP to meet tax and social security obligations arising on vesting ofhis awards for which he made 78,425 based on a sale price of 1,353.0862 pence per share on 23 November 2016.
Had he elected to sell all his vested shares, hewould have made a notional gross gain of 516,351.
The closing share price on the day preceding the release of their awards was 1,326.00 pence per share.
The performance period of the award granted on 6 February 2015, came to an end on 30 September 2017.
The award vested in part at 74.5% of maximum award.
All awards were granted for nil consideration.
The highest mid-market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2017 was 1,690 pence per share and the lowest was 1,318 pence per share.
The year end price was 1,583 pence per share.
As detailed in note 9 on page 85, Mr Thomson had an interest in 10,622 shares which were awarded in connection with a below board plan prior to his appointment as a director of the Company.
These shares vested on 29 November 2016.
Mr Thomson elected to keep all of these shares.
Had Mr Thomson sold his 10,622 shares he would have made the notional gross gain of 146,584 based on a closing price of 1,380.00 per pence on 28 November 2016 the date preceding the release of his award.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 91 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report continued PENSIONS At 30 September 2017, there were no executive directors actively participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension arrangements and none of the executive directors were accruing additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that existed prior to their appointment as executive directors.
Since their appointment, and for the year under review, Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins, Gary Green and Johnny Thomson each received a pension cash allowance equal to 35% of their base salaries in lieu of pension.
EXIT PAYMENTS As announced on 21 September 2017, Richard Cousins will step down from the Board and his role as Group CEO on 31 March 2018 and will retire from the Group on 30 September 2018.
Mr Cousins will be entitled to the payments detailed below under his service contract.
No payment for compensation for loss of office is to be paid.
RICHARD COUSINS Mr Cousins will continue to receive salary, pension cash allowance and benefits in respect of the period up to and including 30 September 2018, which comprises his notice period.
Mr Cousins will also receive payment in respect of any accrued but untaken holiday as at 30 September 2018, calculated in accordance with his service contract.
Mr Cousins base salary for the year ending 30 September 2018 will remain at 1,070,000.
His benefits for the year ended 30 September 2017 were 42,000.
It is expected that his benefits in kind for the year ending 30 September 2018 will be of a similar amount to the year ended 30 September 2017.
Mr Cousins will remain eligible for a bonus in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2018, to be paid at the same time as other participants in the Executive Bonus Scheme, and subject to the same financial and business performance conditions being met.
Mr Cousins bonus payment for the year ended 30 September 2017 was 1,474,032.
The amount for bonus in respect of the year ending 30 September 2018 will depend on corporate results for the year and cannot be estimated at the date of this Report.
Existing awards under The Compass Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 will be allowed to remain outstanding until their normal vesting dates in accordance with the plan rules.
The extent of vesting of each award will be assessed on the normal vesting date, based on existing performance conditions and subject to time prorating based on the period to 30 September 2018 the date on which his employment ends.
Thus, the awards made in respect of the performance period October 2014 to September 2017 over 221,475 shares will vest subject to achievement of the original performance conditions.
Mr Cousins will be entitled to retain the award over 234,804 shares made in respect of the performance period October 2015 to September 2018 which will vest subject to achievement of the original performance conditions.
He will be entitled to retain a reduced award over 131,320 shares in respect of the performance period October 2016 to September 2019, prorated to 30 September 2018 and which will vest subject to achievement of the original performance conditions.
The two year post vesting holding period for all outstanding awards will continue to apply.
No further awards of any long term incentives will be received by Mr Cousins.
ANDREW MARTIN As set out on page 77 of the 2016 Annual Report, in accordance with the provisions of his service contract which was entered into in 2007 before the Companys policy with regard to the inclusion of bonus in termination payments was changed in 2008 so as to exclude them Andrew Martin, who stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2015, continued to be employed by the Company until 31 December 2016.
Mr Martin was entitled to receive a maximum of 1,472,900 as set out in the 2016 Annual Report, of which 583,628 was paid in the three months ended 31 December 2016.
SUSAN MURRAY Susan Murray stepped down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
Other than the fees payable to Mrs Murray for the period up to 2 February 2017, no remuneration or payment was made to her in connection with her ceasing to be a director of the Company.
No other payments were made during the year ended 30 September 2017 to any past director of the Company.
On the relevant dates statements prepared pursuant to section 430 2B of the CA 2006 are posted on the Companys website at www.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive directors may take up one non-executive directorship outside of the Group subject to the Boards approval, provided that such appointment is not likely to lead to a conflict of interest.
It is recognised that non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Richard Cousins stepped down as a non-executive director of Tesco PLC on 3 January 2017.
His fees of 31,319 reflect his time in office during the year in respect of his directorship of that company, which he was permitted to retain.
Mr Blakemore received fees of 169,843 in respect of his directorship of Shire plc.
At the date of this Report, neither Gary Green nor Johnny Thomson hold any external appointments.
92 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Details of amounts received by Paul Walsh during the year ended 30 September 2017 are shown below: 1 FEES BENEFITS TOTAL 2017 TOTAL 2016 CHAIRMAN 000 000 000 000 Paul Walsh 510 50 560 550 1.
Benefits for the year ended 30 September 2017, but not beyond, comprise payment in lieu of the provision by the Company of a car and chauffeur for use on Company business.
Details of the fees paid to each of the non-executive directors in office for the year ended 30 September 2017 are set out below: 2017 2016 000 000 Carol Arrowsmith 109 106 John Bason 111 106 1 Stefan Bomhard 84 34 2 Susan Murray 34 96 Don Robert 111 111 Nelson Silva 94 84 Ireena Vittal 84 84 Total 627 621 1.
Appointed to the Board on 5 May 2016.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES In order that their interests are linked with those of shareholders, directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 65 of the Policy in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee reviewed and noted that the guidelines, as described on page 65 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, were satisfied by all directors in office during the year.
The interests of the directors in office during the year ended 30 September 2017 in shares including the interests of Persons Closely Associated and share incentives are shown in the table below: BENEFICIAL CONDITIONAL SHARES HELD AS LTIP HOLDINGS AS COMPLIANCE WITH 1 AT 30 SEPT 2017 SHARES HELD AT 30 SEPT 2017 LTIP HOLDINGS SHAREHOLDING SHAREHOLDING 2 3 DIRECTOR OR DATE OF LEAVING AS AT 30 SEPT 2016 OR DATE OF LEAVING AS AT 30 SEPT 2016 REQUIRED Carol Arrowsmith 9,904 9,711 n a n a 100% P John Bason 10,782 10,927 n a n a 100% P Dominic Blakemore 96,678 100,546 319,848 301,410 200% P Stefan Bomhard 5,865 6,100 n a n a 100% P Richard Cousins 976,745 1,215,815 653,259 665,715 200% P Gary Green 255,595 265,819 416,535 400,884 200% P 5 Susan Murray 11,763 12,234 n a n a 100% P Don Robert 27,149 28,235 n a n a 100% P Nelson Silva 7,884 8,200 n a n a 100% P Johnny Thomson 134,259 96,643 236,076 194,532 200% P Ireena Vittal 1,791 1,863 n a n a 100% P Paul Walsh 35,395 21,411 n a n a 100% P 1 1.
Ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each unless indicated otherwise.
Ordinary shares of 10 8 pence each.
As a percentage of base salary or fee with effect from 10 September 2017.
Requirement under current guidelines to achieve within a four year period commencing from date of appointment.
Mrs Murray stepped down from the Board on 2 February 2017.
The figure disclosed is the post consolidation number of shares based on her holding of 12,234 shares at the date of her retirement.
There were no changes in directors interests between 30 September 2017 and 21 November 2017.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 93 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Remuneration Report continued REMUNERATION OF OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT A number of senior executives and the executive directors comprise the Executive Board.
These key management roles influence the ability of the Group to meet its strategic targets.
The Committee has regard to the remuneration level and structure of this group.
Total remuneration including base salary and other short term benefits, target or par bonus and the expected value of long term incentives is summarised in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 125.
REMUNERATION ADVICE The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, together with Robin Mills Group HR Director and Lorna Benton Group Reward Director arenormally invited to attend each Committee meeting and provide advice and guidance to the Committee other than in respect of their ownremuneration for which they are not paid a fee in addition to their remuneration from the Company under their service contracts.
Detailsof the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 30 September 2017 are set out on pages 48 and 49.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
During the year and after a competitive tender process, the Committee retained WillisTowersWatson LLP WTW to advise on remuneration related matters, including the Remuneration Policy review, as well as undertaking a benchmarking exercise in respect of the remuneration of the Chairman and executive directors for which it received total fees based on hours spent of 167,000.
WTW provided services globally which comprised remuneration benchmarking, insurance brokerage and other consultancy advice.
Alithos Limited Alithos was appointed by the Company in 2002.
Alithos provided information for the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the Companys LTIP awards, for which it received fixed fees of 24,000 2016: 24,000.
It also provided the TSR performance graph for the Directors Remuneration Report, for which it received a fixed fee of 500 2016: 500.
Alithos did not provide any other advice or services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent, based on the experience of its members generally, including Carol Arrowsmith, Chairman of the Committee, who was formerly a remuneration consultant with Deloitte LLP.
SHAREHOLDER VOTE ON 2015-2016 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The table below shows the voting outcome at the AGM held on 2 February 2017 for the 2015-2016 Annual Remuneration Report advisory vote : NUMBER OF VOTES % OF NUMBER OF VOTES % OF TOTAL NUMBER OF NUMBER OF VOTES 1 FOR & DISCRETIONARY VOTES CAST AGAINST VOTES CAST VOTES CAST WITHHELD Annual Remuneration Report 1,212,095,480 94.33 72,788,784 5.67 1,284,884,264 809,642 1.
A vote withheld is not a vote inlaw.
The Committee welcomed the endorsement of the Remuneration Report by shareholders and took steps, wherever practicable, to understand shareholders concerns when withholding their support.
The Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM remains in force and will continue to be in force, subject to a binding vote on the proposed Remuneration Policy by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM on 8 February 2018.
For ease of reference, the voting outcome of the 2015 AGM is shown below binding vote : NUMBER OF VOTES % OF NUMBER OF VOTES % OF TOTAL NUMBER OF NUMBER OF VOTES 1 FOR & DISCRETIONARY VOTES CAST AGAINST VOTES CAST VOTES CAST WITHHELD Remuneration Policy 1,094,017,323 90.79 110,932,945 9.21 1,204,950,268 55,045,261 1.
At the 2018 AGM, shareholders will be invited to vote on the Annual Remuneration Report for 2016-2017 advisory vote and the proposed Remuneration Policy for 2018-2021 binding vote.
On behalf of the Board Carol Arrowsmith Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 November 2017 94 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
