2021 Two-year holding 2020 2019 Three-year performance 2018 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE Our remuneration policy aligns the interests of management with those of our shareholders, ensuring our ability to attract and retain high performing executives whilst incentivising the delivery of our strategic objectives and sustained returns for investors.
Remuneration is weighted towards performance-related variable elements with measures aligned to the key performance indicators we use to monitor and assess the progress we make in delivering our strategy.
OUR REMUNERATION POLICY Element Link to strategy Key features ELEMENT Reviewed annually.
Increases based on individual performance, Recruit and retain high SALARY, inflation and taking into consideration calibre executives.
PENSION AND increases for the wider employee population.
BENEFITS Drives delivery of annual Maximum potential of 200% of salary.
Deferred At least 60% linked to financial metrics.
element incentivises ANNUAL sustained performance 50% deferred in shares for three years.
BONUS aligned to shareholder Deferral Clawback and malus provisions in place.
Aligns interests with Maximum award value of 350% of salary.
stakeholders by Three-year performance criteria linked to incentivising delivery LONG-TERM business key performance indicators.
of long-term strategic INCENTIVE objectives and retaining Two-year post vesting holding period.
Clawback and malus provisions in place.
Turn to page 56 for more on our remuneration policy 2.
WHAT DIRECTORS WERE PAID IN 2017 3.
PAY ALIGNED WITH SHAREHOLDER RETURNS 2017 REMUNERATION ACTUAL VS POLICY A TRACK RECORD OF OUT-PERFORMANCE Total remuneration is below 2016 levels as a result of lower bonus and Delivery of our strategy has resulted in Imperial Brands outperforming LTIP vesting together with the impact of a recent reduction in the the FTSE and delivering a total shareholder return of 161 per cent, share price.
as set out in the chart below.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised Matthew Phillips index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a nine-year period.
Actual 41% 33% 2,024 26% Turn to page 62 for more on our single figure reporting Maximum 25% 33% 42% 3,421 Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP 56 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 Propose the roll-over of our remuneration policy at the 2018 AGM when it is due to be renewed: Appointment of the principal advisor to the Committee: Continued engagement with shareholders on remuneration approach and policy: and Monitor and where appropriate implement remuneration governance developments.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER A year of investment, restructuring and growth At the start of the year, we communicated our intention to invest behind our strategy and that, in order to deliver this, there would be a short-term reduction in earnings growth as we increased investment significantly in our priority markets, our Growth and Specialist Brands and our Fontem business.
These investments have already started to show positive results, successfully delivering share growth in many of our priority markets.
Cost and capital discipline was maintained with 91 per cent cash conversion delivered.
An important year of investment The impact on earnings of these investments was, in part, behind our priority markets, our mitigated through the successful implementation of our restructuring programme, which delivered 130 million of brands and our Next Generation benefits in the year.
In addition, we undertook action to reduce the long-term liabilities of our UK defined benefit pension Products.
through the introduction of a cap on pensionable salary of 75,000 or, if higher, the members pensionable pay at DAVID HAINES 1 September 2017.
This change means that any future salary Chairman increases above this level will not be taken into account in pension benefits, protecting the pensions of lower paid workers MEMBERS but reducing benefits for higher earners, including for two David Haines Steven Stanbrook Executive Directors who are members of the plan.
Chairman Karen Witts Incentive plan results Therese Esperdy Malcolm Wyman The impact of the investment decisions, particularly on EPS, to 1 February 2017 has reduced pay-out levels under both the annual bonus and Michael Herlihy Trevor Williams long-term incentive.
The annual bonus pay-out for Executive to 1 February 2017 Committee Secretary Directors was 60 per cent of maximum opportunity and 44 per cent of the LTIP awards made in February 2015 will vest.
OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES 1 Board Chairman Group Reward and Capability The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the fact that the 1 Director Chief Executive Executive Directors have made investment decisions which New Bridge Street, the Group Company Secretary 2 are in the long-term interests of shareholders and other Committees principal advisor Group Human Resources and 1 stakeholders and yet, due to the impact on revenue and profit, Transformation Director these decisions have adversely affected incentive pay-outs.
On this occasion, the Committee has determined that no discretion 1.
Specifically excluded when their own remuneration or conditions of service are under discussion.
We will continue to monitor incentive results 2.
and consider whether they appropriately reflect performance delivered.
FOCUS IN 2017 Consultation with shareholders on previously proposed changes to remuneration policy: Monitoring of, and reaction to, a significant shift in the external environment and shareholder sentiment regarding remuneration policy, leading to a decision to withdraw the previously proposed policy prior to the 2017 AGM: and Consideration of remuneration policy for proposal at the 2018 AGM.
com 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Shareholder consultation Implementation of policy Whilst the intended roll-over means that no changes are Last year, the Committee undertook a wide ranging review of our remuneration policy, including consulting with shareholders proposed to the remuneration policy, the Committee intends to make two changes to how the policy is implemented in 2018. holding in excess of 65 per cent of our shares.
Our review concluded that pay outcomes in recent years had not sufficiently These changes further align our approach with our strategy and with current shareholder priorities.
reflected the performance of the Company in delivering its strategy and growing long-term shareholder value.
This was The Committee has listened to shareholder and stakeholder primarily due to lower opportunity in variable pay and we were concerns over executive pension arrangements that are higher concerned that this placed us at a disadvantage in attracting and than those offered to other employees.
Whilst there are no retaining the talent required to maximise our growth potential.
differences between the benefits received by Executives and To that end, we proposed a new policy that sought to address other employees in the UK defined benefit plan of which two these concerns.
A large number of our shareholders were Executive Directors are members, we currently provide a higher supportive of the Committees revised policy during the level of employer contribution to one Executive Director and consultation.
However, having listened carefully to feedback some other executives in the UK defined contribution plan than from a number of investors in the lead up to our AGM, the is offered to other employees.
Going forward, the Committee Committee judged that there was insufficient consensus in intends to limit employer contributions for new Executives to shareholders views to provide a firm base for proceeding with a the same level 14 per cent that is provided to other UK based new policy at that time, and the AGM resolution was withdrawn.
Reflecting the importance of NGP to Imperials future success Policy renewal Since then, and in preparation for the forthcoming AGM, the and long-term value creation for shareholders, we will introduce NGP performance measures into both the annual bonus and LTIP Committee has further engaged with a number of investors.
Reflecting concerns regarding executive pay levels and the for 2018.
In the annual bonus, all Executives will have the 15% weighting for Strategic Individual Objectives aligned with the current lack of a consensus regarding alternative pay models, we are proposing to roll-over the current policy with no change at development of our NGP business, with a focus on increasing the number of NGP consumers.
Within the LTIP, 20% weighting will the 2018 AGM, when it is due to be renewed.
This approach will result in us continuing to operate a remuneration policy which be aligned to growing our revenues in NGP products.
received strong support from our shareholders in 2015 and The rolled over remuneration policy will be submitted for a implementation of which has had high support at annual votes binding vote at the upcoming AGM, and the Annual Report on since.
All of the features of the policy, which are in line with Remuneration will be submitted for an advisory vote.
We look current market practice, will therefore remain, including forward to receiving your support and to constructive dialogue clawback and malus for all incentive schemes, significant about the future structure and approach to remuneration.
shareholding requirements and a two-year post-vesting holding period for vesting LTIP awards.
In the longer term, however, we are conscious that the issues we sought to address last year remain.
In the context of increasingly challenging tobacco markets together with significant growth DAVID HAINES opportunities in Next Generation Products NGP, this will need thoughtful consideration.
As a Committee, we therefore intend to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee keep the policy and the broader executive market under review and will further engage with our shareholders about how and when these issues might best be addressed.
58 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE making recommendations to the Board in respect of our THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Chairmans fees: The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for setting measures and targets for the performance-related executive remuneration, but has delegated this responsibility elements of variable pay: to the Committee, all members of which are independent oversight of our overall policy for senior management Non-Executive Directors.
We consider this independence remuneration and of our employee share plans: and fundamental in ensuring Executive Directors and senior ensuring appropriate independent advisors are appointed to executives remuneration is set by people who have no personal provide advice and guidance to the Committee.
financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
The Committees full terms of reference provide further details of its role and responsibilities and are available on our website.
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee meeting allows the members to meet without any This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions Executive Director or other manager being present.
of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and The Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports The Committees principal responsibility is to support the Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
It also meets Groups strategy and drive performance by ensuring the the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and remuneration policy attracts, retains and incentivises the high the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In this Report we calibre executives required to ensure its delivery.
It also describe how the principles of good governance relating to determines the specific remuneration package, including service directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate contracts and pension arrangements, for each Executive Director Governance Code 2016 the Code, are applied in practice.
The and our most senior executives.
Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the The Committees other responsibilities include: Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to the business environment of the countries in which we The Regulations require our auditors to report to shareholders on operate, thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high the audited information within this Report and to state whether, calibre individuals: in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests accordance with the Act.
The auditors opinion is set out on of long-term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration page 75 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of is fair but not excessive: the Report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS 2016 2017 2016 2017 November January April June September Remuneration policy Update on AGM voting and Review of proposals Market practice including update from shareholder views shareholder for remuneration update consultation regarding policy feedback policy Potential outturn for proposals Finalise 2015 2016 Market practice Investor FY17 bonus and LTIP Directors Recommendation to update communications for Update on policy Remuneration Report withdraw policy proposed policy Review of policy proposals and FY18 proposal Variable remuneration Consideration of salary and incentive Update on changes tender for structures Satisfaction of to reward structure remuneration performance criteria and UK pensions Review of advisor across the Group Chairmans fees Consideration of FY17 Gender pay reporting bonus targets Decision on tender LTIP 2017 grant and for remuneration performance criteria advisor Approval of 2017 Sharesave grant www.
com 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Our strategy and business model drive our remuneration policy.
Our policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, base salary, with significant weighting towards performance-based elements, the measures of which incentivise and support the delivery of our strategy, both on an annual and longer-term basis, whilst also reflecting individual, functional and corporate performance.
We aim to set and rigorously apply targets that are stretching but achievable.
As stated earlier in this Report, following the withdrawal of the proposed policy at the 2017 AGM, we have once more reviewed our remuneration policy during 2017.
As a result of this process and shareholder feedback received during consultation, we are not proposing any changes to the Directors remuneration policy and are rolling over the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2015.
The Directors remuneration policy will, nevertheless, as required by the Regulations, be submitted for shareholder approval at our 2018 AGM.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Salary Attract and retain high Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Whilst there is no maximum salary performing individuals, Committee taking into account each Executive Directors or maximum increase in salary, the reflecting market value of performance together with changes in role and responsibility.
Committee would only set a salary role and the Executive which exceeded the top quartile of Salary increases, if any, are generally effective from 1 October.
Directors skills, experience salaries of the comparator group in The Committee considers pay data for UK listed companies and performance.
unforeseen and exceptional closest to us by FTSE ranking and excluding those in the circumstances.
These comparators serve to define The Committee takes into account a playing field within which an individuals reward needs to each Executive Directors be positioned.
In determining individual remuneration, the performance, together with changes primary factors taken into account are individual in role and responsibility and performance, the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that considers general increases for the individuals role, their ability and experience.
Benefits Competitive benefits taking Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, The level of benefit provision is into account market value life insurance and permanent health insurance which are fixed although the value may vary of role and benefits offered provided directly or through the Company pension scheme.
depending on the cost of providing to the wider UK such provisions.
Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if when applicable.
Annual bonus Incentivise delivery of At least 60% of the annual bonus will be linked to key 200% of base salary or such lower sum plan Group strategic objectives financial metrics and no more than 15% will be linked to as determined by the Committee.
and enhance performance, individual measures.
including against the Performance below the threshold results in zero payment.
indicators we use to Payments rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity measure our performance for levels of performance between the threshold and as detailed on pages 8 and 9. maximum targets.
Half of any annual bonus earned is paid in shares to be held, in the corporate nominee, for a minimum of three years, with the other half paid in cash.
Malus provisions apply before payment and clawback provisions are in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus.
The deferred shares are not subject to performance conditions.
60 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Long-Term Incentivise long-term Group Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting Chief Executive Officer: 350% of Incentive Plan financial performance in line at the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made base salary.
with the Groups strategic and are based 20% on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR vs a Other Executive Directors: 250% objectives, including against peer group and 80% on financial measures.
of base salary or such lower sum the indicators we use to In respect of each performance element, performance below as determined by the Committee.
measure our performance the threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each Plus shares equivalent to the as detailed on pages 8 and 9, performance element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of value of the dividend roll-up.
and long-term shareholder performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
Align Executive Directors Clawback and malus provisions are in place.
interests with those of long-term shareholders.
Dividend equivalents accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting.
Any awards which vest will be subject to a further two-year holding requirement.
Pensions Attract and retain Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with Existing members of the defined high performing Executive other employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in benefit section have a cash in Directors.
Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior lieu of pension accrual limit of to 1 October 2010 are members of the defined benefit section 35% of salary should they choose whereas Executive Directors joining the Fund on or after this to leave the Fund.
date are offered membership of the defined contribution section.
Current policy is for a defined Executives have the option to receive a cash supplement in lieu of contribution and cash membership of the Fund, or in lieu of accrual on pensionable salary supplement limit of 26% above the Funds earnings cap, or in lieu of future service accrual.
Members of the defined benefit section of the Fund accrue pension at a rate between 1 47th and 1 60th of pensionable salary.
Further detail is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 65 and 66.
The rules of the Fund detail the pension benefits which members can receive on retirement, death or leaving service.
The Committee may amend the form of any Executive Directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of an Executive Directors pension provision.
Note: Legacy awards Subject to the achievement of any applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payments, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award made prior to the approval and implementation of this renewed remuneration policy.
For completeness, this includes awards made under the existing remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
COMMITTEE DISCRETIONS RELATING TO VARIABLE PAY SCHEMES The Committee operates each of the Companys incentive plans for which it has responsibility according to their respective rules and, where relevant, in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee has discretion, consistent with market practice, in respect of, but not limited to: participants: the timing of grant of an award and or payment: the size of an award subject to the maxima set out in our policy : the performance measures and targets: the determination of vesting and confirmation that the calculation of performance is made in an appropriate manner, with due consideration of whether and, if so, how adjustments should be made subject to the provision that any adjustments to targets set should result in the revised target being no less challenging than the original target : discretion required when dealing with a change of control and any adjustments required in special circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and determination of a good bad leaver for plan purposes based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
com 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued In relation to the annual bonus and LTIP awards, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets set if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than was intended.
Adjustment may also be made for any changes to accounting policy over the performance period.
Any use of discretion beyond the normal operation of the plan would be justified in the Annual Report on Remuneration and, if appropriate, be subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Sharesave Plan is as permitted under HMRC rules.
In the past three years the Committee has exercised its discretion on two occasions: both of these were to increase targets within the LTIP in order to reduce payments following the acquisition of USA assets, in order to ensure that the rewards received by the management team were in line with the Committees original intentions when it set the performance criteria.
The Committee will continue to review targets to ensure they reflect its original intentions.
PAYMENTS FROM EXISTING AWARDS Subject to the achievement of applicable performance measures, Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this Report.
Any employee appointed to the Board as an Executive Director will remain eligible to receive payments, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any award under any of the Groups share plans made prior to such appointment.
PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Groups key initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives.
Performance measures used within the LTIP are more consistent from year to year, however, they are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to reflect our medium and longer-term priorities.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment at the time.
For 2018, an important change is made through the inclusion of NGP performance measures in both the annual bonus and the LTIP.
This reflects our planned step-up in activity in NGP and the importance to Imperial and our shareholders of growing revenues outside of core tobacco.
The annual bonus measure targets growth in the number of consumers, targeting rapid expansion of our blu e-vapour brand.
This is complemented in the LTIP with an NGP revenue measure, targeting accelerated growth in sales of e-vapour and other NGP products.
DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS COMPARED TO OTHER EMPLOYEES The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is designed having regard to the remuneration policy for employees across the Group.
The structure of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and other senior employees is closely aligned.
The key differentiator is the increased emphasis on long-term performance in respect of Executive Directors, with a greater percentage of their total remuneration being performance related.
This includes mandatory three-year deferral of 50 per cent of bonus and an additional two-year holding period on vested LTIPs, neither of which apply to other managers.
There are also variations in the performance metrics which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility.
The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Other employees are eligible to participate in performance led annual bonus plans.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers are eligible to participate in the LTIP c. 500 individuals whilst other managers are eligible to participate in a share matching scheme c. 500 individuals.
Where possible, all employees are encouraged to become shareholders by participating in our Sharesave Plan on the same terms as Executive Directors.
Retirement benefit, typically in the form of a pension, is provided based on local market practice.
Other benefits provided reflect local market practice and legislation.
62 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS TOTAL REMUNERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR MINIMUM, TARGET AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TOTAL REMUNERATION BY PERFORMANCE SCENARIO FOR 2017 18 FINANCIAL YEAR 000 Chief Executive officer 000 Chief Financial officer 000 Chief Development officer 8000 5000 5000 7,512 4,148 50% 4000 4000 6000 43% 3,421 42% 4,657 3000 3000 2,599 4000 39% 3,607 2,084 33% 2,024 35% 29% 2000 2000 1,779 26% 22% 26% 33% 20% 27% 32% 2000 30% 34% 1,588 33% 917 32% 851 1000 1000 100% 44% 21% 34% 100% 44% 22% 35% 100% 48% 25% 41% 0 0 0 Minimum Target Max Actual Minimum Target Max Actual Minimum Target Max Actual Salary, pension and benets Annual bonus LTIP The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
For simplicity Sharesave Plan awards have also been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Minimum: fixed remuneration only i. e. current salary, benefits and pension.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Note that the Company does not have a stated target for either its financial measures or incentive pay-outs.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service agreements normally continue until their agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one years notice and contain no liquidated damages provisions nor any other entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a defined period.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders and copies of their service agreements are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions and 5 per cent of base salary in respect of other benefits, but these are at the Committees sole discretion.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
The circumstances of any termination including performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses would be taken into account in every case: our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and so any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
For Executive Directors leaving employment for specified reasons including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the business or company in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control annual bonus awards will be based on performance, adjusted for time served, and paid at the same time as for other employees.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances.
Under the rules of the LTIP, outstanding awards vest if a participant leaves for the specified reasons as detailed above.
In these circumstances awards vest as the Committee determines, having regard to the time the award has been held and the achievement of the performance criteria.
Awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date.
If the termination of employment is not for one of the specified reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, awards lapse entirely.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS Compensation on termination following Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date a change of control Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions www.
com 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued RECRUITMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
Any such buyout awards would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares or options, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such awards at the time of appointment.
The Committee may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
The Committee confirms that this provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration lost.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay-out according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following their appointment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and within the limits set by the Committee.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES Whilst placing significant weight on annual performance, our policy aligns the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the medium to longer term.
To support this alignment, we have share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in the Companys shares.
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Companys shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to 300 per cent of gross base salary.
Over a seven-year period other management are expected to build a holding to between half and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement, but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
CONSULTATION WITH EMPLOYEES Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the remuneration policy, the Committee does consider the general base salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are proposed to be made to the remuneration policy the Committee chairman will inform and, where appropriate, consult with major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
In line with this policy, prior to proposing a revised remuneration policy at its 2017 AGM, the Committee actively engaged with shareholders for some time and received considerable support.
However, shortly before the meeting it became clear views had changed and that the right course of action was for the Board to withdraw the resolution.
Taking these revised views together with other feedback the Committee received from shareholders, the Committee deems the most appropriate action is to roll-over the current policy.
This was discussed with our largest shareholders whilst other large shareholders were informed of the proposal and asked for their opinion.
On the basis of the feedback received the roll-over of the policy will be put to shareholders at our 2018 AGM.
64 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS POLICY IN RESPECT OF EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Alison Cooper was a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape plc until the end of February 2017 and was permitted to retain the 25,000 fee received from this position in the financial year.
POLICY FOR THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees Attract and retain high Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Board after No prescribed maximum recommendation by the Committee in respect of the Chairman.
Portion of fees applied to Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 October.
Aggregate annual fees limited purchase of shares to align to 2.0 million by Articles of The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee considers pay data interests with those of Association.
at comparator companies of similar scale.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees receive additional fees.
From February 2017 additional fees are paid for Committee memberships.
An allowance may be paid when regular intercontinental travel is required.
No eligibility for annual bonus, retirement benefits or to participate in the Groups employee share plans.
Benefits Reimbursement of business Travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a Grossed-up costs.
To the extent that any other reasonable business related expenses are recognised as a taxable benefit, these will be reimbursed at cost including any tax thereon.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by the Board on 31 January 2017.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION HOW THE COMMITTEE IMPLEMENTED THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 IMPLEMENTING EXECUTIVE POLICY AND PRACTICE In implementing the Companys remuneration policy as detailed on pages 48 to 53 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2014 available on our website and set out above, the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considered pay data at comparator companies of similar scale, primarily looking at a market capitalisation group made up of 10 companies above and 10 companies below the Company in the FTSE, excluding financial services.
Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to define a playing field within which an individuals reward should be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, their ability, experience and performance.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
com 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued LINKING REMUNERATION WITH STRATEGY We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash flows.
Investing behind our Market Repeatable Model in tobacco and our NGP portfolio is key to maximising long-term returns to shareholders.
Our remuneration policy is designed to incentivise delivery against these key elements of our strategy.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Alignment with Sustainable high quality growth is at the heart of our strategy.
This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of growth within our strategy our variable remuneration both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Stretching performance targets incentivise the delivery of sales in both our core tobacco business and Next Generation Products.
Managing our costs and cash flows are the other elements of our strategic focus.
Profitability, mainly in the form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP whilst cash conversion forms a measure for the annual bonus.
Alignment with To align their interest with shareholders, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the Companys shares our shareholders through both direct shareholdings supported by shareholding requirements for senior managers and through our share plans, with the value of the Corporate Management Groups overall remuneration being heavily influenced by the performance of our share price.
Attracting Our remuneration policy is designed to ensure a high quality pool of talented employees at all levels who are engaged and and retaining incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, without encouraging them to take the right people undue risks.
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure.
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance based elements.
Taxable benefits principally include an allowance 15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant in lieu of or the provision of a company car 21,046 in respect of Matthew Phillips, fuel and health insurance.
Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to meetings held at the Companys registered office.
Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2017.
In line with policy half of the net value is deferred in shares for three years: no further performance conditions apply.
Share plans vesting represent the value of LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of 32.923127 being the three-month average to 30 September 2017 and an estimate of the dividend roll-up based on announced dividend payable on December 2017 and the closing share price on 2 November 2017.
The 2016 estimated figure has been restated to reflect actual share price at the date of vesting and includes awards vesting under the legacy Share Matching Scheme SMS.
Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise.
These sharesave options were the only options exercised in the year: 441 shares in respect of Oliver Tant.
Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on pages 65 and 66.
Therese Esperdy was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016.
Includes payment in respect of Committee membership at an annual rate of 5,000.
Therese Esperdy and Steven Stanbrook receive a non-European allowance of 12,000.
Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fees of 26,000 per annum and chairmanship of Remuneration and Audit Committees at an annual rate of 26,000 10.
Michael Herlihy retired from the Board on 1 February 2017.
Simon Langelier was appointed to the Board on 12 June 2017.
Steven Stanbrook was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2016.
66 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred grossed-up for tax where expenses represent a taxable benefit.
No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances.
No Directors waived their fees.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to former Directors nor were any payments made for loss of office during the year.
ADDITIONAL NOTES TO THE SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.
In particular, it details the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and for each share plan, namely the LTIP and, in respect of the 2016 figures, the legacy SMS.
Determination of 2017 annual bonus 2017 was an important year of progress in which management delivered on our key objective to grow market share in priority markets whilst at the same time maintaining capital discipline and strong cash conversion.
EPS growth in the year was adversely affected by the decision to significantly invest behind our key brands in priority markets and Next Generation Products.
The annual bonus payment, determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2017, is 60 per cent of maximum opportunity 2016: 72 per cent.
This reflects the impact on EPS and revenue from the investment decisions made.
Performance against individual measures is set out below: Maximum Actual percentage percentage Performance target Assessment of bonus of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Performance is measured based on EPS growth at constant currency.
25 0 KPI constant currency As communicated to investors in November 2016, the strong investment behind growth in our priority markets and NGP business through 2017 resulted in a significant drag on EPS.
The target range of 4% to 8% EPS growth was not met and no payment is made on the EPS growth element of the annual bonus.
KPI Cash conversion Performance is measured as cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
25 25 Continued focus on efficiently managing our cost base and commitment to capital discipline delivered cash conversion of 91%.
This delivered a 100% achievement against a threshold target of 80% and a maximum target of 90%.
Revenue growth in Performance is measured based on revenue growth of our Asset Brands.
15 3 KPI Asset Brands Asset Brand net revenue was also impacted by the increased investment in the year.
Growth of 1.1% in Asset Brand revenues delivered a payment of 20% of opportunity against a threshold target of 0% and a maximum target of 5.6%.
Market share Non-financial measures consisted of a market share target reflecting how many of our priority 20 20 markets are delivering share growth.
Implementing our MRM has successfully supported increased share being delivered in 70% of our priority markets and improved trends in others.
This performance delivered a 100% achievement against a threshold target of 10% and a maximum target of 60% of priority markets in growth.
Individual objectives As in previous years, performance was rated by the Committee for the Executive team against 15 12 delivery of our strategy, taking into account the key non-financial goals for the year, including: Implementation of restructuring and cost optimisation programme, releasing 130 million of inyear benefits to support investment behind priority brands in priority markets.
Further developing our NGP business including the acquisitions of Von Erl and Nerudia, adding to our portfolio and innovation capabilities.
Delivery of business transformation programme, driving a simpler and more sustainable global operating model.
Delivery of Board business development agenda including evaluation of new growth opportunities and disposal of non-core assets, with Imperials holding in Logista reduced.
Successful execution of the joint venture with China Tobacco, announced in January 2017 Overall, the Committee awarded a score of 12 out of the maximum 15 to the Executive team, reflecting the significant progress made through 2017 across the broader business agenda.
Achievement of 100 60 bonus for 2017 KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on pages 8 and 9. www.
com 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed.
Fifty per cent of earned bonus is paid in cash with the remaining 50 per cent paid in shares with a three-year retention period.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to malus provisions before payment and clawback during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned.
Clawback may be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made to Alison Cooper, Oliver Tant and Matthew Phillips in February 2015 will vest in February 2018, subject to continued service, based on performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below: Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting percentage percentage Performance target performance of award of award of award KPI, 1 Adjusted EPS 3% 8% average annual growth 5.7% 12.5% 50% 33% KPI, 1,2 Net revenue growth 5% 8% average annual growth 3.61% 7.5% 30% 0% 3 TSR against comparator group Threshold at median of peer group 23 of 38 5% 20% 12% companies Pro rata between median and upper quartile exceeded Maximum above upper quartile Achievement of LTIP 44% 1.
This is the first year of vesting using constant currency as introduced in 2015 by the Committee in order to mitigate the impact of and uncertainty caused by currency movement.
The use of constant currency has removed the devaluation of sterling relating to Brexit which would otherwise have resulted in an achievement of 80%.
The target range of 5% to 8% includes the discretionary increase made by the Committee in consideration of the one-off impact of the acquisition of US assets.
68 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices.
Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared ex-dividend.
The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS and net revenue growth performance conditions for the LTIP performance assessments.
Sharesave Plan We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term shareholders.
Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the day prior to invitation.
The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares.
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2017, Oliver Tant had a Sharesave Plan vesting 2016: Matthew Phillips and details are included in the single total figure table on page 62.
TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS AUDITED The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund, which is the principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK.
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are members of the pre-April 2002 section of the defined benefit section of the Fund.
Prior to 6 April 2006 they accrued a non-contributory pension at the rate of 1 47th of their pensionable salary limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although HMRC removed this cap from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not dis-apply it in respect of past pensionable service and maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For pensionable service from 6 April 2006 onwards Alison Cooper and Matthew th Phillips accrue an additional pension at a rate of 1 60 of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
They pay member contributions at the rate of 5 per cent of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
Both Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips receive a salary supplement of 12 per cent of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
With effect from 1 September 2017, the Company has introduced a cap on pensionable pay for active members such that pensionable pay will in future be limited to 75,000 or, if higher, the members pensionable pay at 1 September 2017.
Oliver Tant registered for Fixed Protection 2016 and opted-out of contributory membership of the defined contribution section of the Fund with effect from 1 April 2016.
No pension contributions have been paid to the Fund by or in respect of him since this date.
Instead the Company has paid him an additional salary supplement of 26 per cent of his salary from 1 April 2016.
The salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
com 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Matthew Phillips elected to use the Funds scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2011 12, 2012 13, 2013 14 and 2014 15 tax years.
His accrued pension was reduced by 14,204.58 a year including revaluation to offset these Annual Allowance charge payments.
This reduction to pension is reflected in the accrued pension figure as at 30 September 2017 it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as at 30 September 2017.
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year end: the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations: the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any Directors contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in accordance with the Regulations: and any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION DISCLOSURES AUDITED Extra information to be disclosed under 2013 Directors Remuneration Single figure numbers Regulations Payment in lieu of retirement Value x 20 benefits over year net Total Value x 20 Value x 20 Pensionable i. e. pension of Directors pension Normal at start at end Accrued annual pension Age at service at supplement contributions benefits retirement of year of year 000 30 09 2017 30 09 2017 01 10 2016 30 9 2017 000 000 000 age 000 000 Alison Cooper 51 18 219 243 102 392 494 60 4,380 4,860 Matthew Phillips 46 17 116 128 42 215 257 60 2,360 2,560 1 Oliver Tant N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 1.
Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
He registered for Fixed Protection 2016 and as a result opted-out of contributory membership of the Fund and ceased pension contributions with effect from 1 April 2016.
Since this date Mr Tant has received a salary supplement equal to 26 per cent of his basic salary and in the year to 30 September 2017 this amounted to 182,000.
STATEMENT OF CHANGE IN PAY OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMPARED WITH OTHER EMPLOYEES 1 Chief Executive All employees to Percentage Percentage 30 September change change 2017 2017 vs 2016 2017 vs 2016 Salary 1,051,000 3.0 4.1 Benefits 16,635 0.9 6.0 Bonus 1,261,200 14.1 12.7 1.
Based on members of our Corporate Management Group.
This group has been chosen as it represents a good proxy for employees across the Group but is not overly influenced by local custom, hyperinflation in some jurisdictions etc.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividends.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2017 2016 change Executive Director total remuneration 9 11 12.5 1 Overall expenditure on pay 856 826 3.6 Dividend paid in the year 1,528 1,386 10.2 1.
Excludes employers social security costs.
70 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SHARE INTERESTS AND INCENTIVES AUDITED All Executive Directors who served in the financial year currently meet the Companys shareholding policy by either holding shares in excess of their requirement or being within five years of appointment.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Shares held Conditional awards and options held Awards Options unvested and unvested and Vested but subject to subject to Vested Shareholding Current Owned subject to performance continued but not required shareholding 1 2 outright holding period conditions employment exercised % salary % salary Requirement met Executive Directors Alison Cooper 193,668 29,365 311,013 354 300 676 Yes 3 Oliver Tant 14,008 14,971 144,767 303 300 132 In role for less than five years Matthew Phillips 53,750 11,241 107,066 212 300 372 Yes Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 11,232 N A 4 Therese Esperdy 3,526 N A David Haines 1,254 N A 5 Michael Herlihy 5,388 N A 6 Simon Langelier 24,130 N A 4 Steven Stanbrook 18,237 N A Karen Witts 669 N A Malcolm Wyman 4,180 N A 1.
Based on a share price of 31.84 being the closing price on 29 September 2017.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement, but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in the Companys shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
On 1 August 2017, Oliver Tant exercised 441 shares under the international sharesave plan at an option price of 20.40 with a market value of 31.20 per share.
Therese Esperdy and Steven Stanbrook hold their shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
There have been no changes to the above holdings since the year end.
VARIABLE AWARD GRANTS MADE DURING THE YEAR AUDITED In line with our remuneration policy in force from 2014, LTIP awards are made in February each year in order for any change in policy to be considered by shareholders immediately prior to grant.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number of nil Amount of End of performance Threshold Weighting 1 2, 3 cost options Face value base salary period vesting of award Performance condition Alison Cooper 98,897 3,678,500 350% 30 September 2019 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group Oliver Tant 47,059 1,750,000 250% 30 September 2019 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group Matthew 37,437 1,392,500 250% 30 September 2019 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth Phillips 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 1.
Valued using the share price at the date of grant 15 February 2017 being 37.195 per share.
Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Key performance indicators used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on pages 8 and 9. www.
com 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Performance criterion EPS element This criterion is used for 50 per cent of the LTIP award.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the following vesting schedule.
1 Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 8% per annum or higher 100% Performance criterion net revenue growth element The net revenue growth criterion is used for 30 per cent of the LTIP award.
1 Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 1% per annum nil 1% per annum 25% 1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 4% per annum or higher 100% Performance criterion TSR element The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and is applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP award.
The companies within the comparator group and the vesting schedule are detailed on page 64.
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
AWARDS WITH NO PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS MADE DURING THE YEAR AUDITED The deferred shares, being the deferred element of bonus, awarded during the year are set out below.
No Executive Directors were granted Sharesave options during the year.
Number of Portion of End of 1 deferred shares Face value net bonus deferral period Alison Cooper 11,024 386,526 50% 30 September 2019 Oliver Tant 7,013 245,899 50% 30 September 2019 Matthew Phillips 5,844 204,916 50% 30 September 2019 1.
Valued using the share price at the date of purchase 14 December 2016 being 35.061138 per share.
72 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS HOW THE COMMITTEE INTENDS TO IMPLEMENT THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 18 SALARY The Committee sets base salaries having regard to individual performance, changes to the individuals role and market data for each position based on several comparator groups which reflect the Companys size, sector and global reach.
Consideration is given to the effect any amendment to an individuals base salary would have on their total remuneration package.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
An increase of 2.5 per cent in line with other UK employees, who on average received 2.6 per cent, was awarded to the Executive Directors.
There was also no increase in the base fee for the Non-Executive Directors.
However, in February 2017, the Committee chairmans fees were increased from 25,000 to 26,000 per annum and a Committee membership fee of 5,000 per annum was introduced.
The previous increase in NEDs fees was effective from October 2014.
ANNUAL BONUS Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance.
We therefore think it is appropriate to have a major element of Executive Directors remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Groups annual objectives and enhancing performance against key financial and non-financial targets.
The maximum bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors remains unchanged at 200 per cent.
For the 2018 financial year, the performance measures have been reweighted to reflect the Groups strategic focus for the year, with an increased weighting on top-line growth and a slightly reduced weighting on EPS and cash conversion.
An NGP measure has been included in the annual bonus to reflect the importance of growing our business outside of core tobacco.
Fifty per cent of net bonus paid will be in the form of the Groups shares deferred for a three-year period: the remaining 50 per cent will be paid in cash.
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below: Maximum Performance target of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 20% Cash conversion Commercially confidential 20% Market share growth in priority markets Commercially confidential 20% Net revenue growth in Growth & Specialist Brands Commercially confidential 25% Strategic objectives growth in NGP Commercially confidential 15% At this point, the above performance targets are considered commercially confidential, but to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further details will be provided retrospectively in the 2018 Annual Report.
The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always be confidential but will review this on a year-by-year basis.
SHARE PLAN AWARDS Following the withdrawal of the revised remuneration policy, which included an increase in LTIP opportunity, the awards granted in 2017 were lower than the proposed maximum as detailed in last years report: Maximum opportunity as detailed in Actual award last years report but not implemented granted as proposed policy was withdrawn percentage percentage of salary of salary Alison Cooper 450 350 Oliver Tant 350 250 Matthew Phillips 350 250 www.
com 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued FEBRUARY 2018 LTIP GRANT For 2018, the inclusion of an NGP revenue growth measure in the LTIP reflects the importance to Imperial and our shareholders of growing revenues outside of core tobacco.
Performance criteria Weighting in LTIP 1 Adjusted EPS growth 30% 1 Net revenue growth 30% Relative TSR 20% NGP Revenue growth 20% 1.
As per the Committees decision in 2014, and all awards since 2015, EPS growth and net revenue growth are measured at constant currency.
When setting the performance criteria the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and analysts forecasts.
Performance criterion EPS element This criterion is used for 30 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proposed vesting schedule is: Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 8% per annum or higher 100% Performance criterion net revenue growth element This criterion will be used for 30 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 1% per annum nil 1% per annum 25% 1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 4% per annum or higher 100% Performance criterion TSR element The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including 38 companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP.
The companies within the comparator group remain unchanged, as detailed on page 64.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Relative TSR performance Shares vesting as percentage of element Below median of peer group nil At median of peer group 25% Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% pro rata Above upper quartile 100% Performance criterion NGP revenue growth element This criterion will be used for 20 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 35% per annum nil 35% per annum 25% 35% to 150% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 150% per annum or higher 100% Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
74 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS VOTING ON THE REMUNERATION REPORT AT THE 2017 AGM At the 2017 AGM we received a strong vote in favour of our Remuneration Report, with a small number of shareholders commenting on various aspects of our remuneration.
We also received a strong vote in favour of our remuneration policy at our 2015 AGM, although a small number of shareholders expressed concern in respect of various aspects including the expectation that incentive targets should be adjusted for our USA acquisition.
These were addressed by the Committee using its discretion to increase in-flight LTIP targets.
Prior to proposing a revised remuneration policy at our 2017 AGM the Committee actively engaged with shareholders for some time and received considerable support.
However, shortly before the meeting it became clear that views had changed and that the right course of action was for the Board to withdraw the resolution.
Votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Percentage Votes Percentage cast excluding Votes cast including 1 Resolution votes for against against votes withheld withheld votes withheld Directors Remuneration Report 2017 AGM 707,591,718 94.7 39,693,115 5.3 747,284,833 7,479,131 754,763,964 Directors Remuneration Policy 2015 AGM 704,892,593 93.6 48,447,661 6.4 753,340,254 9,328,030 762,668,284 1.
Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
ADVICE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE New Bridge Street NBS was retained for the financial year, having been appointed following a tendering process, by the Committee as its principal, and only material, external advisor.
NBS advised on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviewed our structures against corporate governance best practice.
NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new developments and evolving best practice.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
NBS parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group.
Having reviewed the structures in place to ensure the independence of NBS advice to the Committee, it is satisfied that the other work provided by the wider Aon group did not impact on NBS independence.
During the year NBS was paid time based fees of 152,658.
NBS was last appointed as advisor to the Committee in 2011.
Following a regular periodic review, the Committee has decided to appoint FIT Remuneration Consultants as principal advisor with effect from 1 November 2017.
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return TSR calculations and provided advice on all TSR related matters.
During the year it was paid a fixed fee of 19,500.
Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group: Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required.
It was not used for remunerationrelated advice during the financial year.
Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group: Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Groups employee share plans:  LLP PwC, our auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS and net revenue calculations used in relation to our employee share plans performance criteria.
During the financial year PwC was paid a fixed fee of 1,900 in respect of services to the Committee: and Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our remuneration policy for executives.
During the year it was paid time based fees of 62,000 for these services.
Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group.
All of these advisors were appointed by the Committee which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way compromises their independence.
They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee.
The Group Human Resources and Transformation Director and the Group Reward and Capability Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and on our employee share plans.
Their attendance ensured the Committee was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and our most senior executives.
com 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued OTHER INFORMATION Our middle market share price at the close of business on 29 September 2017, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 31.87 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 31.125 to 41.285.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered office.
AWARD DATES Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
REVIEW OF PAST PERFORMANCE The chart below shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2017.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a nine-year period.
Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement.
Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement.
OPERATING EXECUTIVE EXCLUDING EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 000 2017 2016 Base salary 2,994 2,402 Benefits 156 257 Pension salary supplement 318 263 Bonus 2,234 2,798 Termination payments 1,548 4 LTIP annual vesting 733 1,838 4 SMS annual vesting 650 266 8,633 7,824 4.
Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of 32.923127 being the three-month average to 29 September 2017.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was 20,342,210 2016: 20,959,617.
76 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 1 KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 AUDITED 000 2017 2016 Short-term employee benefits 12,020 12,340 Post-employment benefits 1,798 1,313 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits 1,548 Share-based payment in accordance with IAS 24 4,519 3,598 19,885 17,251 1.
Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUSTS Our policy remains to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Benefit Trusts.
As at 30 September 2017, we held 77,289,137 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under award at Surplus 01 10 2016 during year during year 30 09 2017 30 09 2017 shortfall Executive Trust 637,816 0 152,802 485,014 768,037 283,023 2001 Trust 2,851,649 0 1,429,320 1,422,329 3,316,248 1,893,919 SHARE PLAN FLOW RATES The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans.
Currently, an aggregate total of 0.4 per cent of the Companys issued share capital including shares held in treasury is subject to options and awards under the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
SUMMARY OF OPTIONS AND AWARDS GRANTED Cumulative options and awards granted Options and awards granted during the year as a percentage of issued share capital as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards including those held in treasury including those held in treasury 10% in 10 years 1.8 0.1 5% in 5 years 0.8 0.1 5% in 10 years executive plans 1.3 0.1 For the Board DAVID HAINES Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 November 2017 www.
com 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES CONTENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Brands PLC 75 Consolidated Income Statement 80 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 81 Consolidated Balance Sheet 82 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 83 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 84 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting Policies 85 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 90 3 Segment Information 91 4 Profit Before Tax 93 5 Restructuring Costs 93 6 Directors and Employees 94 7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to Adjusted Net Finance Costs 95 8 Tax 95 9 Dividends 97 10 Earnings Per Share 98 11 Intangible Assets 99 12 Property, Plant and Equipment 102 13 Investments Accounted for using the Equity Method 103 14 Inventories 104 15 Trade and Other Receivables 104 16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 104 17 Trade and Other Payables 105 18 Borrowings 105 19 Financial Risk Factors 106 20 Derivative Financial Instruments 111 21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 113 22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 115 23 Provisions 120 24 Share Capital 120 25 Share Schemes 120 26 Treasury Shares 123 27 Commitments 124 28 Legal Proceedings 124 29 Net Debt 124 30 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 125 31 Changes in Non-Controlling Interests 125 32 Post Balance Sheet events 125 33 Related Undertakings 125 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Imperial Brands PLC Balance Sheet 126 Imperial Brands PLC Statement of Changes in Equity 126 Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Brands PLC 127 Related Undertakings 130 Shareholder Information 144 74 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017
