Directors remuneration report Chair of Remuneration Committee Introduction The Committee believes that the VCP is Dear Shareholder meeting its objectives.
The total number As the Chair of the of options banked under the VCP in FY17 Remuneration Committee, at the first measurement date can be found on page 88.
Iam pleased to present theDirectors remuneration Continued retention of our CEO report for the year ended The Remuneration Committee believes 30September 2017, which that in order to maintain the Companys commitment of creating value for our hasbeen prepared by the shareholders, the presence and active Remuneration Committee involvement of our CEO will be pivotal in Committee on behalf the near to medium term.
With the current VCP term now ending in less than two years, The Company has seen another oftheBoard.
the Company has been looking for the ways year of growth, both organically to ensure continued retention and motivation The Company has seen another year of growth, and through acquisition, and we both organically and through acquisition, of the CEO.
As the VCP format has proven welcome TechnicWeb, Hometrack, to be effective thus far in its goals of and we welcome TechnicWeb, Hometrack, ExpertAgent, Ravensworth and, ExpertAgent, Ravensworth and, subsequent encouraging value generation and lock-in of the CEO, after careful consideration subsequent to the year-end, to the year-end, Money to the Company.
During the Period the Company has seen the Committee has decided to propose Moneyto the Company.
Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA increase an extension of the plan for a further two by 46.8 million and 19.3 million compared year period starting from 2019, subject to to the prior year and at the same time we shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
have seen Total Shareholder Return TSR The key changes proposed to the VCP include: for the Period of 13%, delivering value of over 175 million to shareholders.
the reduction in the CEOs share in the return above the hurdle from 3% to 2% The Companys strong performance is for the extended term of the VCP: and reflected in the remuneration for the Period a proportional increase of the maximum as we continue to incentivise and reward the Executive Directors, Management and number of shares which can be earned under the Plan whether new issue or employees throughout the business based on the underlying financial performance market purchased from 7.5 million to 11.25 million to take into account the of the Company.
2017 also marks the third anniversary of the ZPGs IPO and alongside it the end Detailed terms of the extension to the VCP of the first vesting period for the Companys are outlined in Notice of the Annual General Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which was Meeting and the Remuneration Policy awarded to both Executive Directors and section of this report.
The LTIP represents just one of the plans which aim to align individual Changes in regulation and market practice performance and reward with the long-term The Remuneration Committee continues strategy and objectives of the business and to keep abreast of ongoing changes in both I am pleased to announce the vesting of this regulation and market practice with regards award in line with the Companys excellent to Executive remuneration including, but performance in the three years since IPO.
not limited to, the Green Paper on Corporate Governance and Executive Pay issued by In January 2017 we also made the first the Department for Business, Energy and grant of the nil-cost options under the Value Industrial Strategy in November 2016 and Creation Plan VCP to the Companys Chief the Governments subsequent response to Executive Officer.
The award demonstrates the comments raised on the Green Paper.
the outstanding value created for shareholders The Committee will continue to consider the over the first measurement period of the Plan recommendations and impact on the Policy to December 2016 with over 437 million in this, and other, regulations and governance of total shareholder return generated.
66 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance The Committee intends for this updated The Committee considered the base Key activities of the Committee Remuneration Policy to be in effect for salaries for the Executive Directors.
The Committees key activities during the three years with the next new policy to 2017 financial year were: The salaries above represent be presented for shareholder vote in 2021. an increase of 5.39% for the reviewing the remuneration package However, the Committee will continue CEO and 16.4% for the CFO.
for the CEO and CFO for 2017 and the to review the compensation practices to implementation for 2018 to ensure that ensure that the policy is effective, fit for The increase for the CEO was they remain appropriate and aligned purpose and supports the Companys made as part of an annual review with the Company strategy: strategy on an ongoing basis.
in line with the budgeted average increase for employees.
reviewing Executive Director base Proposed changes to Remuneration Policy salary levels: The increase for the CFO With the exception of the extension to the encompasses the annual making awards under the Companys VCP, the Committee is not proposing to adjustment for all employees LTIP for Executive Directors and make any material changes to the Policy of 6% plus ongoing adjustment to Management and assessing targets: that was approved by shareholders in 2015. bring the CFOs salary in line with The following changes are proposed to bring reviewing the Companys TSR performance ZPGs targeted market positioning and adjusted EPS performance against elements of the policy in line with current as he grows in the role and based prevailing corporate governance standards: target in respect of the Companys first on his performance to date.
LTIP vesting which was awarded in 2014: formally introducing a two year holding The new salaries remain below the period post vesting for the LTIP which making an award under the VCP for median levels for the FTSE 250. will apply to future LTIP awards: and the CEO: The fee of the Chairman of the Company determining the level of bonus payments increasing the shareholding guideline for was increased from 183,750 to 193,000 Executive Directors excluding the CEO in respect of this financial year: for 2018 a rise of 5.03% in line with the where the guideline will remain at 400% budgeted increase for all employees.
Reviewing the cascade and appropriateness of salary to 200% of salary currently There were no changes to Non-Executive of share plans across the wider business: 100% of salary.
The fee rise to the Chairman drafting the Companys Directors was to reflect the increase in responsibility remuneration report: and Remuneration Committee decisions due to the Companys increase in size made in the 2017 financial year and complexity and is in line with the Re-appointment of PwC as remuneration remuneration policy.
During the year the Committee made the advisers for 2018. following decisions: 2017 annual bonuses of 135% of salary During the year James Welsh joined the for the CEO and 112% of salary for the Review of the remuneration package for Remuneration Committee as an observer, CFO which corresponded to 90% of 2018 for the Companys CEO and CFO with Stephen Daintith stepping down.
maximum opportunity, recognising the as set out below: We thank Stephen for his contribution strong financial performance of the and welcome James to the Committee.
salaries of 537,500 and Company and the personal performance 320,000 respectively: I hope that you find the information in this of the Executive Directors over the year.
report helpful and I look forward to your pension contributions of up to 15% 2017 awards under the LTIP for the CFO continued support at the Companys AGM.
of salary: and Management in line with the normal award policy.
Further details of the bonuses of up to 150% and 125% awards for the CFO are on page 83. of salary respectively: Award under the VCP in January 2017 continued participation under the Sherry Coutu under the rules of this Plan.
Detail of the VCP for the CEO: Chair, Remuneration Committee award for the CEO is set out on page 83. proposed two year extension to Further details on how our Remuneration Note the original period of the VCP: This report has been prepared in accordance with Policy will be applied in practice for the 2018 award under the LTIP for 2017 of Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies financial year are set out on pages 70 to 72.
150% of salary for the CFO: and and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the September 2014 increase in shareholding requirement UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code for Executive Directors other than the and the Listing Rules.
CEO to 200% of salary CEO remains at 400% of salary.
co. uk 67 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report In this section, we summarise the purpose of our Remuneration Policy the Policy and its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives and we highlight the performance and remuneration outcomes for 2017.
More detail can be found inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our principles of remuneration There should be a strong link between an individuals reward and the performance of the Company to align the interests of Management with those of shareholders.
Variable remuneration makes up a significant proportion of the remuneration package.
Stretching performance conditions directly aligned with the Companys strategy.
The Companys strategy is laid out on pages 15 to 19.
The Companys mission is to be the platform of choice for consumers and partners engaged in property and household decisions.
Company performance and link to remuneration The following table sets out a number of the Companys KPIs and other objectives and how their satisfaction is encouraged by the Companys Policy: Other objectives Long-term KPIs value creation encouraged Adjusted Adjusted through equity Share Plan Purpose Eligibility Revenue EBITDA EPS TSR retention ownership Annual Bonus Plan To incentivise and Executive Directors reward short-term and Management performance with mandatory plus retention deferral in shares.
LTIP To incentivise and Executive Directors reward long-term and selected members performance.
Value Creation Plan services of our highly entrepreneurial and creative Founder & CEO, incentivising him to deliver the strategy of the Company and significantly enhance shareholder value.
Share Incentive Plan To broaden share All employees.
ownership and share in corporate success over the medium term.
68 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Summary of changes to Remuneration Policy With the exception of the extension to the VCP, the Committee is not proposing to make any material changes to the Policy that was approved by shareholders in 2015.
The changes proposed aim to bring elements of the Policy to be in line with the current prevailing corporate governance standards.
ELEMENT CHANGES FROM 2015 REMUNERATION POLICY Policy unchanged.
Salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus Plan Chairman and NED fees Introduction of formal post vesting holding period of two years on future grants of LTIP awards.
Previously it Long Term Incentive Plan was at the discretion of the Committee to decide if an additional holding period was implemented.
LTIP Extension of the term of the 2015 Value Creation Plan for a further two year period to 2021.
Value Creation Plan VCP The original grant gave the CEO the potential right to earn nil-cost options over shares in the Company equal to 3% of the total value created for shareholders above a hurdle of 8% p. a. at the end of each Plan Year over a four year performance period.
A minimum return of 8% p. a. must be maintained at each vesting date for the award to vest.
The vesting schedule for the original grant provides that 50% of the cumulative balance of options will vest and may be exercised at the end of the third Plan Year with 100% of the cumulative number of options vesting at the end of the fourth Plan Year.
The extension of the VCP gives the CEO the potential right to earn nil-cost options over shares in the Company equal to 2% of the total value created for shareholders above a hurdle of 8% p. a. at the end of each plan year for the two year extension period.
There will be an additional vesting period with 50% of the options earned in year 5 vesting at the end of the fifth Plan Year with the balance of options from year 5 and those earned under year 6 vesting at the end of sixth Plan Year.
In order for the nil-cost options to vest, the minimum 8% return p. a. has to be achieved at each vesting date.
The maximum number of shares which can be earned under the Plan whether new issue or market purchased will increase proportionally from 7.5 million to 11.25 million to take into account the two additional years.
Minimum shareholding The minimum shareholding requirement for Executive Directors has been increased to 200% of salary from 100% of salary.
requirement The CEO will be required to hold his minimum shareholding requirement of 400% of his salary for one year following the cessation of his employment.
How we have performed in 2017 and what level of bonus has been achieved?
See page 85 for further details.
% of maximum bonus KPI 2017 potential achieved Revenue million 244.5m 73 Adjusted EBITDA million 96.4m 100 Personal objectives 90 KPI definitions can be found on pages 28 to 29.
Full details of the Annual Bonus Plan targets and their level of satisfaction can be found on page 85. www.
co. uk 69 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued How have long-term incentive awards performed and what level of pay-out has been achieved?
See page 87 for further details.
Shareholding requirement Value of beneficially owned shares Value of gain on interests over shares i. e. unvested unexercised awards Shareholding requirement 2018 Remuneraon Policy Value of beneficially owned shares Value of gain on interests over shares i. e. unvested unexercised awards % of salary 0 500 1,000 2,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 % of maximum bonus KPI 2017 potential achieved 1 Total shareholder return % 72% 1 Relative total shareholder return 48 189 upper quartile 100 Adjusted EPS pence per share 15.2 Adjusted EPS compound growth % 33% 100 1 Total shareholder return for the purposes of this LTIP award was measured from the IPO price of 2.20 over a three year period to 23 June 2017.
Statement of Directors shareholdings as at 30 September 2017 The following chart summarises the current shareholding position of the Executive Directors.
Full details can be found on page 89.
Implementation of the Policy in the 2018 financial year ELEMENT OPERATION OF ELEMENT IN 2018 The salary for the CEO has increased from 510,000 by 27,500 to 537,500 and the salary for the CFO has Salary increased from 275,000 by 45,000 to 320,000.
Benefits The increase for the CEO was made as part of an annual review in line with the budgeted average increase for employees of 6%.
Pension The increase for the CFO encompasses the annual adjustment for all employees of 6% plus ongoing adjustment to bring the CFOs salary in line with ZPGs targeted market positioning as he grows in the role and based on his performance to date.
The new salaries remain below the median levels for the FTSE 250.
There are no proposed changes to benefits and pensions from the financial year ending 30 September 2017.
The fee for the Chairman was also reviewed resulting in an increase of 9,250 from 183,750 to 193,000 per annum.
The increase is broadly in line with the level of increase for our employees and in line with the Remuneration Policy.
There have been no increases to the fees for non-executive directors from the rates set in 2017.
70 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Andy Botha Alex Chesterman % of salary % of salary Corporate governance Implementation of the Policy in the 2018 financial year continued ELEMENT OPERATION OF ELEMENT IN 2018 Annual Bonus Plan The maximum opportunity for the CEO and CFO are unchanged at 150% and 125% of salary respectively.
The bonus which can be earned for target performance is 60% of the maximum bonus.
Operation of the plan: 50% of any bonus earned will be paid in cash: and 50% of any bonus earned will be paid in shares which vest after a further three years subject to the Executive Directors continued employment.
Performance conditions for the 2018 financial year and their weighting are as follows: EBITDA 50% : revenue 30% : and personal strategic objectives 20%.
Further details of the targets applicable to the bonus for the coming year are considered by the Committee to be commercially sensitive as they are the key metrics that are critical to the operation of the Company.
The Committee will provide full retrospective disclosure of the performance targets for the financial measures to allow shareholders to judge the bonus earned in the context of the performance delivered in the Annual Report on Remuneration next year.
The outcomes of the 2017 bonus are provided on page 85.
The CEO is not granted awards under the LTIP, since the introduction of the VCP below on 1 October 2015.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The maximum opportunity for the CFO is unchanged at 150% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the EPS target range for LTIP awards to be granted in respect of FY2018.
It is the Committees view that the threshold and maximum level of EPS growth rates at 10% to 18% compound average growth rate remains appropriate.
The vesting earned at threshold performance has been maintained at 25%.
There are no changes to the TSR performance targets.
Awards will be subject to additional two year holding period post vesting.
Value Creation Plan The VCP for the current CEO will enter its third year since approval by shareholders on 1 October 2015.
An update on the performance of the VCP and the number of options banked at the first measurement date are provided on page 88.
VCP Share Incentive Plan Matching Shares will continue to be granted on a monthly basis for each Partnership Share purchased by an eligible employee.
SIP Non-Executive fees The proposed annual fees for Non-Executive Directors for 2018 are set out below: Annual fees Annual fees 2018 2017 Chairman 193,000 183,750 Board fee 50,000 50,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee 10,000 10,000 Chair of Audit Committee 10,000 10,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 www.
co. uk 71 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued Non-Executive fees continued The proposed Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees for 2018 are therefore: Fees Fees 2018 2017 Name Mike Evans Chairman, Chair of the Nomination Committee 193,000 183,750 Duncan Tatton-Brown Chair of Audit Committee, Senior Independent Director 65,000 65,000 Grenville Turner 50,000 50,000 1 James Welsh Kevin Beatty Robin Klein 50,000 50,000 Sherry Coutu Chair of Remuneration Committee 60,000 60,000 1 Stephen Daintith Vin Murria 50,000 50,000 1 Stephen Daintith resigned from the Board on 1 January 2017 and was replaced by James Welsh.
Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy report sets out the remuneration policy that will governs the Companys future remuneration payments.
The policy is intended to apply for three years following the shareholder approval at the Companys AGM on 30 January 2018.
The Committee determines the Policy for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other Management for current and future years and this is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Policy is designed to support the strategic objectives of the Company and to allow the business to recruit, retain and incentivise the quality of Management needed to shape and execute our strategy to deliver sustained shareholder value over the long term.
The Policy aims to align the interests of the Executive Directors, Management and employees to the long-term interests of shareholders and aims to support a high performance culture with appropriate reward for superior performance, without creating incentives that will encourage excessive risk taking or unsustainable performance.
The Committee considers that a successful policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in its remuneration practice.
The Policy is designed around the following key principles: ensure a strong link between an individuals reward and the performance of the Company to align the interests of Senior Management with those of shareholders.
In achieving this principle the Committee has ensured that the performance elements of the remuneration are transparent and stretching: maintain a competitive package against businesses of a comparable size in the FTSE 250 and comparable peer group businesses in the sector with reference to the breadth of the role and experience the role holder brings to the Company: operate a consistent reward and performance philosophy throughout the business: encourage a material, personal stake in the business and a long-term focus on sustained growth through long-term shareholding: provide a balanced package with a focus on variable pay: and take into account the associated risks of each aspect of remuneration.
The Committee is satisfied that its approach to the Executive Directors remuneration is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will review annually the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and key Management drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the Company and taking into consideration the: business strategy over the Period: overall corporate performance: market conditions affecting the Company: changing practice in the markets where the Company competes for talent: and changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
72 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this Policy.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend the Policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Company aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates the same core structure as for the Executive Directors.
The Company operates employee share and variable pay plans, with pension provisions provided for all Executives and employees.
In addition, any salary increases for Executive Directors are expected to be generally in line with those for UK-based employees.
2018 Remuneration Policy table ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS SHORT REMUNERATION AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY Salary Provides a base level of remuneration An Executive Directors basic salary Whilst there is no maximum salary level to support recruitment and retention is set on appointment and reviewed or salary increase level, to reflect the of Executive Directors with the annually or when there is a change Committees wish to ensure that fixed necessary experience and expertise in position or responsibility.
costs are minimised it is intended that to deliver the Companys strategy.
salaries will not exceed the median level When determining an appropriate level relative to the current comparator group of salary, the Committee considers: of companies.
remuneration practices within The companies in the comparator group the Company: are the constituents of the FTSE 250 the performance of the individual Index.
The Committee intends to review Executive Director: the list of companies each year and may the individual Executive Directors add or remove companies from the group experience and responsibilities: as it considers appropriate.
Any changes to the comparator group will be disclosed the general performance in the part of the report setting out the of the Company: operation of the policy for the future year.
salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator group In general salary rises to Executive Directors used for remuneration benchmarking will be in line with the rise to employees.
when the Committee determines The Company will set out, in the section it is appropriate to carry out a headed statement of implementation benchmarking exercise : of remuneration policy in the following pay and conditions throughout financial year, the salaries for that year the Company.
The Committee has for each of the Executive Directors access to pay and conditions of other see page 84. employees within the Company when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and also considers the relationship between general changes to pay and conditions within the Company as a whole: and the economic environment.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the average until the target positioning is achieved.
co. uk 73 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued 2018 Remuneration Policy table continued ELEMENT OF HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS SHORT REMUNERATION AND LONG-TERM STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY Benefits Provides a benefits package in The Executive Directors can receive The cost of the benefits provided.
line with standard market practice family private health cover, car relative to its comparator group to allowance and death in service enable the Company to recruit and life assurance.
retain Executive Directors with the The Committee recognises the need experience and expertise to deliver to maintain suitable flexibility in the the Companys strategy.
benefits provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Company strategy.
Additional benefits may therefore be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
Executive Directors shall be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the Company may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Pensions Provides a pension provision in line Employer retirement funding is 15% of salary p. a. with the comparator group to enable determined as a percentage of gross the Company to recruit and retain basic salary, up to a maximum limit of Executive Directors with the 15%.
Where this exceeds the maximum experience and expertise to deliver annual pension contribution that can the Companys strategy.
benefit from tax relief or the Lifetime Allowance, any excess may be provided in the form of a salary supplement, which would not itself be pensionable or form part of salary for the purposes of determining the extent of participation in the Companys incentive arrangements.
74 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance 2018 Remuneration Policy table continued HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS ELEMENT OF SHORT AND LONG-TERM REMUNERATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS Annual Bonus The Plan provides an The Company operates in a The Committee will determine The Plan is based on a mix Plan and the maximum annual of financial and strategic incentive to the Executive rapidly changing sector and Deferred Directors linked to therefore the Committee may participation in the Plan for operational conditions and Bonus Plan each year, which for the CEO is measured over a period achievement in delivering change the balance of the measures, or use different will not exceed 150% of salary of one financial year.
The goals that are closely and for the other Executive financial measures will measures for subsequent aligned with the Companys financial years, as appropriate, Directors will not exceed account for no less than 50% strategy and the creation 125% of salary.
This is subject of value for shareholders.
to the condition that at least Below threshold level of The Committee retains In particular, the Plan 50% of the award is based on performance 0% of the bonus discretion in exceptional supports the Companys financial performance.
At threshold circumstances to: objectives allowing the level of performance 25% The Company will set out setting of annual targets change performance in the Annual Report on of the bonus will be earned.
based on the businesses measures and targets and At target level of performance Remuneration in the following strategic objectives at that the weightings attached financial year, the nature of for the CEO 60% of the bonus time, meaning that a wider to performance measures will be earned and for the other the target measures and their range of performance part-way through a weighting for each year Executive Directors 75% of metrics can be used that performance year if there the bonus will be earned.
At see page 86. are relevant and achievable.
is a significant and material 105% of target performance The Committee has event which causes the Details of the performance 100% of the bonus will be Committee to believe discretion to defer part measurements and their level earned the maximum.
The of the annual bonus earned the original measures, of satisfaction for the year Committee retains discretion weightings and targets in shares under the Deferred being reported on will be to change the calibration of Annual Bonus Plan.
The are no longer appropriate.
set out in the Annual Report bonus targets.
advantage of deferral is: on Remuneration.
In cases where the Committee The annual bonus will be paid ongoing risk adjustment believes that the bonus The Committee can determine in cash and deferred shares.
due to the link to the outcome is not a fair and that part of the bonus earned For Executive Directors 50% share price over the accurate reflection of business under the Annual Bonus Plan of annual bonus to be paid deferral period thereby performance, make downward is provided in the form of an immediately in cash and 50% driving long-term or upward adjustments to the award of shares under the deferred into shares.
strategic behaviours: and amount of bonus earned.
amounts deferred The maximum value of Any adjustments or discretion in shares are also deferred shares is 50% applied by the Committee forfeitable on an of the bonus earned.
will be fully disclosed in the Executive Directors follow years Directors The main terms of these voluntary cessation Remuneration Report.
awards are: of employment which provides an effective minimum deferral period Details of the performance lock-in.
conditions, targets and their of three years: and level of satisfaction for the the participants continued year being reported on will employment at the end be set out in the Annual of the deferral period.
The Committee has the Should the Committee discretion to apply a two year determine that one or more holding period post vesting targets are commercially of deferred shares.
sensitive, these will be The Committee may award disclosed in subsequent years remuneration reports dividend equivalents on those shares to Plan participants to once commercial sensitivity ceases to apply.
the extent that they vest.
The DBP contains malus and clawback provisions.
co. uk 75 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued 2018 Remuneration Policy table continued HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS SHORT ELEMENT OF ANDLONG-TERM REMUNERATION STRATEGICOBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS Long-Term Awards are designed to Awards are granted Plan maximum 200% The performance conditions for awards Incentive Plan incentivise the Executive annually to Executive of salary for Executive are currently adjusted EPS1 growth and LTIP Directors to maximise total Directors.
These will vest Directors other than TSR.
EPS growth for this purpose is shareholder returns by at the end of a three year for the CEO.
defined as the increase in adjusted successfully delivering period subject to: basic EPS.
Below threshold level the Companys objectives the Executive Directors of performance 0% of The Company operates in a rapidly and to share in the continued employment the award will vest.
25% changing sector and therefore the resulting increase in total at the date of vesting: of the award will vest for Committee may change the balance of shareholder value.
the measures, or use different measures satisfaction of the The use of adjusted EPS 100% of the award will vest for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
ensures Executive Directors for maximum performance.
No material change will be made to the are focused on ensuring the Straightline vesting occurs type of performance measures without The Committee may award annual profit performance between these points.
Details of dividend equivalents on targeted by the Annual the performance conditions for grants awards to the extent that The CEO does not participate Bonus Plan flows through made in the year will be set out in the these vest.
in the LTIP during the period to long-term sustainable Annual Report on Remuneration and covered by the VCP EPS growth.
Awards made under for future grants in the statement of see below.
the LTIP will be subject implementation of remuneration policy The use of comparative to an additional two year in the future financial year.
TSR measures the success post vesting holding of the implementation of In exceptional circumstances the period, applicable to the the Companys strategy in Committee retains the discretion to net number of shares delivering an above market change the performance measures and received after tax and level of return.
targets and the weighting attached to other statutory deductions.
the performance measures and targets The LTIP contains malus part-way through a performance period and clawback provisions.
if there is a significant and material event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate: make downward or upward adjustments to the amount of LTIP award vesting resulting from the application of the performance measures, if the Committee believe that the vesting outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Any adjustments or discretion applied by the Committee will be fully disclosed in the following years Remuneration Report.
1 Adjusted basic EPS is defined as profit for the year, excluding exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions adjusted for tax adjusted profit for the year and divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue for the year.
76 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance 2018 Remuneration Policy table continued HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS ELEMENT OF SHORT AND LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS Value Creation An incentive which aligns the Under the VCP, the CEO will be granted Where the hurdle of 8% p. a.
The starting Plan VCP CEO with the outputs of the a conditional award giving him the potential return has been achieved over share price for the successful implementation right to earn ordinary shares of the the VCP performance period: beginning of the VCP A full of the Companys strategy, Company based on the absolute total performance period description a number of nil-cost based on total shareholder shareholder return generated over the will be the 30 day of the detailed options with a fixed value return generated.
average prior to the terms and of 5,000,000 will be date of approval conditions earned for achieving the The original award gave the CEO the of the VCP by attached to 8% p. a. return with respect opportunity to share in 3% of the total shareholders.
the VCP are to the original VCP term: value created for shareholders above set out in the a hurdle Threshold Total Shareholder nil-cost options equal to The share price used 2018 Notice Return measured shortly after the end 3% of the return generated at each Measurement of Annual of each VCP Plan Year Measurement above 8% p. a. for the initial Date shall be the 30 General Date over the four year VCP four year VCP period day average following Meeting.
additional nil-cost options the announcement of will only accrue once the Companys results The extension to the VCP gives the 5,000,000 has been for the relevant CEO an opportunity to share in 2% exceeded : financial year.
of the total value created for shareholders nil cost options equal to above a Threshold Total Shareholder 2% of the return generated Return for an additional two years by above 8% p. a. for the two extending the VCP performance period year extended period: and to six years.
the cap on the VCP will be For the original grant 50% of the increased to 11.25 million cumulative number of nil-cost options shares to take into account will vest and may be exercised following the extension of the VCP the Measurement Date following the for two further years.
end of the third Plan Year with 100% of the cumulative number of nil-cost options vesting following the Measurement Date following the end of the fourth Plan Year.
This vesting schedule will continue for the original award.
For the extension there will be an additional vesting period with 50% of the options earned in year 5 vesting at the end of the fifth Plan Year with the balance of options from year 5 and those earned under year 6 vesting at the end of the sixth Plan Year.
In all cases the minimum return of 8% p. a. has to be maintained over the VCP period or earned nil-cost options will not vest and or will lapse.
The VCP contains malus and clawback provisions.
co. uk 77 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued 2018 Remuneration Policy table continued HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS ELEMENT OF SHORT AND LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS HMRC Share To encourage company-wide The Company operates a share incentive UK plan in line with HMRC There are no Incentive Plan employee share ownership plan in which the Executive Directors limits as amended from time performance and thereby align employees are eligible to participate which is to time.
conditions as this is interests with shareholders.
HMRC approved and is open to all an all-employee plan.
The Company retains the discretion to introduce additional plans, and to make Directors eligible for these as appropriate.
Minimum shareholding requirement The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up, over a five year period and then subsequently hold, a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This Policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
The minimum shareholding requirements will be 400% for the CEO and 200% for the other Executive Directors.
The Committee retains the discretion to increase these shareholding guidelines during the Policy period.
The CEO will be required to hold his minimum shareholding requirement of 400% of his salary for one year following the cessation of his employment.
HOW IT SUPPORTS THE COMPANYS ELEMENT OF SHORT AND LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE REMUNERATION STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS Chairman and Provides a level of fees to The Board, as a whole, is responsible Fees will not exceed the median None.
Non-Executive support recruitment and for setting the remuneration of the level relative to the comparator Director Fees retention of the Chairman Non-Executive Directors, other than group of companies.
and Non-Executive the Chairman whose remuneration In general the level of fee Directors with the necessary is considered by the Remuneration increase for the Chairman and experience to advise and Committee and recommended to Non-Executive Directors will be assist with establishing and the Board.
set taking account of any change monitoring the Companys Non-Executive Directors are paid a base in responsibility and will take strategic objectives.
fee and additional fees for chairmanship into account the general rise in of Committees.
The Chairman does salaries across the UK workforce.
not receive any additional fees for The Company will pay reasonable membership of Committees.
expenses incurred by the Fees are reviewed annually based Non-executive Directors and on equivalent roles in the comparator Chairman and may settle any tax group used to review salaries paid incurred in relation to these.
The Chairman and Non-Executives fees are set out on page 72.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefit arrangements.
78 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new Director will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
The Remuneration Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the market in which the Company competes.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION RECRUITMENT POLICY Salary Salary will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Benefits The standard benefit package for existing Executive Directors will apply.
Pensions The maximum employer contribution will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors.
Annual Bonus and Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not Deferred Bonus Plans exceed 150% of salary for CEO and 125% of salary for all other Executive Directors.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
Maximum variable pay In the year of recruitment, the maximum variable pay will be 350% of salary for CEO and 325% of salary for all other incentive opportunity Executive Directors.
Buyout of incentives The Committees policy is not to provide buyouts as a matter of course.
forfeited on cessation However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a of employment buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Directors remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director is to apply the policy which applies to the current Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
co. uk 79 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued Service agreements and letters of appointment Date of service Compensation contract letter of Notice period Notice period provisions for Name appointment Nature of contract from Company from Director early termination Executive Directors Alex Chesterman 22 April 2014 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Andy Botha 18 April 2016 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Non-Executive Directors Mike Evans 1 May 2017 3 year contract 3 months 3 months None Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 May 2017 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Grenville Turner 21 May 2017 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None James Welsh 1 January 2017 3 year contract None None None Kevin Beatty 1 July 2016 3 year contract None None None Robin Klein 1 May 2017 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Sherry Coutu 1 May 2017 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None Vin Murria 1 July 2015 3 year contract 1 month 1 month None The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 12 month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period which would, in any event, reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts and are appointed by letters of appointment.
Each Independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three year period.
The Company extended the appointments of those Non-Executive Directors where their three year appointment terms were reached during the year.
These were extended by an additional three year period.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all Directors be subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
External Non-Executive Directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain fees.
The Executive Directors did not hold positions in any other company during the period.
Payment for loss of office The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual the Remuneration Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION TREATMENT ON EXIT Salary Salary will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination of the salary payable during the notice period.
In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
Benefits Benefits will normally be provided over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the benefits payable during the notice period.
Pensions Company pension contributions will normally be provided over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the Company pension contributions during the notice period.
80 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Payment for loss of office continued ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION TREATMENT ON EXIT Annual For the Year of Cessation Bonus Plan Good leavers: Performance conditions will be measured at the end of the financial year.
Any bonus will normally be prorated for the period worked during the financial year.
Other leavers: No bonus payable for year of cessation.
Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that an individual is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and to determine whether to prorate the bonus to time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will prorate for time.
It is the Committees intention to use discretion to not prorate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Deferred Bonus Deferred shares Plan Good leavers: All unvested deferred shares will vest on the normal vesting date.
Other leavers: All unvested deferred shares will be forfeited on cessation of employment.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to determine whether to prorate the deferred shares on cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not prorate.
The Committee will determine whether to prorate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure: and to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation.
LTIP Good leavers: unvested awards will vest on the normal vesting date subject to i the extent any applicable performance condition have been satisfied at the end of the normal performance period and ii prorating to reflect the period of time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment as a proportion of the normal vesting period.
The holding period will continue to apply.
Other leavers: All unvested awards will be forfeited on cessation of employment.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: to determine whether unvested awards should vest on the normal vesting date or date of cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that unvested awards will vest on the normal vesting date.
The Committee will determine the vesting date based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure: to determine whether to prorate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will prorate awards for time.
The Committee will determine whether to prorate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure: and to determine that no holding period will apply following vesting.
The Committees normal policy is that a holding period will apply.
The Committee will determine whether to disapply a holding period based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
VCP Good leavers: The Committee may at its discretion allow the CEO to continue to participate in the VCP until the nearest VCP measurement date to his date of cessation this may be in the past.
Accrued nil-cost options will vest at the normal vesting dates and be exercisable for such period as determined by the Committee in its discretion.
Other leavers: There will be no further VCP measurement dates and no ability to accrue nil-cost options.
Accrued nil-cost options will lapse on the date of cessation of employment.
Discretion: The Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that the CEO is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and to prorate to the time from the VCP award to the date of cessation the number of nil-cost option shares and the 5,000,000 fixed value relating only to the original grant of the VCP.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions, other than those set out above, agreed prior to 27 June 2012. obligations www.
co. uk 81 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration report continued Payment for loss of office continued A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: ill-health: injury or disability: redundancy other than for the VCP : retirement with agreement of employer other than for the VCP : employing company ceasing to be a Group company: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other leaver reasons.
Change of control The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below: ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION CHANGE OF CONTROL DISCRETION Annual Bonus Plan Performance conditions will be measured at the date The Committee has discretion: of the change of control.
The bonus will normally be to continue the operation of the Plan to the end of the prorated to the date of the change of control.
bonus year: and to determine whether to prorate the bonus to time.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will prorate for time, however, in exceptional circumstances where the nature of the transaction produces exceptional value for shareholders and provided the performance targets are met the Committee will consider whether prorating is equitable.
Deferred Bonus Plan The number of shares subject to subsisting deferred share The Committee will take into account the circumstances of awards on a change of control may be prorated to time.
the change of control in determining whether to apply prorating.
LTIP The number of shares subject to subsisting deferred LTIP The Committee has discretion: awards on a change of control will be prorated to time to determine whether to prorate the award to time.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will prorate for time however, in exceptional circumstances where the nature of the transaction produces exceptional value for shareholders and provided the performance targets are met the Committee will consider whether prorating is equitable: and to determine to pay cash in lieu of shares.
VCP There will be a VCP measurement date on the change The Committee has discretion to prorate to time the of control and the value of additional nil-cost options minimum 5,000,000 fixed value of the original grant will be calculated as at any other VCP measurement date.
The share price used to calculate the measurement total There is no minimum fixed value for the extension award.
shareholder return will be the offer price for the Company.
Accrued and banked nil-cost options will become immediately exercisable on the date of the change of control.
82 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The chart below illustrates the remuneration that could be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of financial year 2018, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on target: and iii maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into four components: i fixed: ii annual bonus including deferred bonus : iii LTIP: and iv VCP.
Element Description Minimum On target Maximum Fixed Salary, benefits Included Included Included and pension 1 Annual Bonus Plan and Annual bonus 0% 60% of the maximum bonus 100% of the maximum bonus Deferred Bonus Plan including deferred shares Long Term Incentive Plan Award under the 0% 62.5% of the maximum award 100% of the maximum award LTIP for the CFO 3 Value Creation Plan Award under the 0% 50% of the average annual IFRS 2 100% of the average annual 2 2 VCP for the CEO value of award IFRS 2 value of award 1 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 125% for the Chief Financial Officer.
2 The VCP cost is higher than previous years to reflect the extension of the VCP for the CEO.
The maximum value continues to represents 100% of the average annual IFRS 2 value of the award, which is intended to give an estimate of the value of the award on grant.
3 The VCP is a one-off award with an original term of four years now extend to six years.
The maximum value represents 100% of the average annual IFRS2 cost of the award.
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
For the purposes of this disclosure, dividend equivalents have not been added to deferred bonus and LTIP share awards.
3,000,000 2,584,610 2,500,000 45% 2,000,000 1,683,993 1,500,000 34% 1,252,000 1,000,000 31% 912,000 38% 29% 33% 622,125 32% 500,000 26% 372,000 100% 37% 24% 100% 41% 30% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Chief Execu five officer Chief Financial officer Alex Chesterman Andy Botha Fixed elements Bonus LTIP Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Company The remuneration policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
However, employee views are not specifically sought in determining this Policy.
The Company does not currently use any remuneration comparison metrics.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance.
All employees participate in bonus plans which, together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable all employees to share in the success of the Company.
All employees which were employed throughout the financial year are eligible to participate in the SIP and the Company strives to offer this benefit to new parts of the business as soon as practical following acquisition.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
The Committee consulted with its principal shareholders on the VCP and the proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy prior to finalising the new proposals.
co. uk 83 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration The following report outlines how the Policywas implemented in 2017.
Information included in the Annual report on remuneration is audited only where indicated.
Single total figure of remuneration audited Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2016 financial year have also been provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2017 financial year audited 2 Annual bonus 1 3 4 Salary Benefits Cash Deferred LTIP Pension SIP Total Name Period 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Alex Chesterman 2017 510 4 344 344 419 77 2 1,700 Founder & CEO 2016 480 4 353 353 72 2 1,264 Andy Botha 2017 275 4 155 154 41 2 631 CFO 5 2016 114 2 56 56 17 245 1 The types of benefits provided are set out in our Remuneration Policy see page 74.
2 50% of the annual bonus amount is deferred into nil-cost options, which vest three years from the date of grant.
These options are expected to be granted in December 2017.
The options are not subject to further performance criteria.
3 The 2014 LTIP vested on 29 November 2017 after our financial year end.
However given the majority of the performance period has been completed by the end of 2017, the value of the LTIP vesting has been included in the single figure table for 2017.
See page 87 for details of the vesting for the 2014 LTIP award.
Value calculated based on the average share price at close on 22 November 2017 of 3.511 as it was available at the time of compiling this report, rather than the average share price in last quarter of the 2017 financial year as it is a more accurate representation of the value provided.
4 Pension contributions represent 15% of the respective salaries.
The normal retirement age for each Executive Director is 67.
5 Andy Botha joined the Company on 18 April 2016.
His salary, benefits and other awards were made prorata for the 2016 financial year.
Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director for the year from the date of their appointment.
2017 2016 Taxable Taxable Fees benefits Total Fees benefits Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Roles Mike Evans Chairman 183.8 184.8 175.0 175.0 Chairman, Chair of Nomination Committee Duncan Tatton-Brown 65.0 65.0 62.5 62.5 Senior Independent Director, Chair of Audit Committee Grenville Turner 50.0 50.0 47.5 47.5 Non-Executive Director 1 James Welsh Non-Executive Director Kevin Beatty Non-Executive Director Robin Klein 50.0 50.0 47.5 47.5 Non-Executive Director Sherry Coutu 60.0 60.0 57.5 57.5 Chair of Remuneration Committee 1 Stephen Daintith Non-Executive Director Vin Murria 50.0 50.0 47.5 47.5 Non-Executive Director 1 Stephen Daintith resigned from the Board on 1 January 2017 and was replaced by James Welsh.
84 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Annual fees 2017 2016 annual fee annual fee Chairman 183,750 175,000 Board fee 50,000 47,500 Chair of Remuneration Committee 10,000 10,000 Chair of Audit Committee 10,000 10,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 Additional information regarding single figure table audited The Committee considers that performance conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard to the business strategy, shareholder expectations, cyclicality of the markets in which the Company operates and external advice.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse.
There is no retesting of performance.
Annual Bonus Plan audited The bonus is assessed over a performance period aligned with the financial year using the criteria outlined in the Policy summarised on page 72.
50% of the bonus achieved will be paid in cash.
The remaining 50% will be deferred in nil-cost options over a minimal deferral period of three years.
Actual Annual bonus Annual bonus performance value achieved value achieved Name Performance criteria Weighting against target % salary 000 Alex Chesterman Revenue 30% 73% Adjusted EBITDA 50% 100% 135% 688 Personal objectives 20% 90% Andy Botha Revenue 30% 73% Adjusted EBITDA 50% 100% 112% 309 Personal objectives 20% 90% The Committee believes that the bonus outcome is fully reflective of the strong performance over the Period and therefore has not exercised any discretion in relation to the bonus outcomes.
The acquisitions made during the Period have not impacted the outcome of the bonus.
The targets were set prior to the acquisitions and subsequently adjusted to account for these acquisitions.
The Committee considered performance against the adjusted performance targets.
Company performance against the performance conditions is set out below: Resulting bonus Weighting as a % achieved as a % of of maximum bonus Threshold Target Maximum Actual maximum bonus Performance criteria opportunity 000 000 000 000 opportunity Revenue 30 228.6 240.6 252.6 244.5 73 Adjusted EBITDA 50 85.1 89.6 94.1 96.4 100 Personal objectives 20 See below 90 Total 100 90 www.
co. uk 85 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Annual bonus outcome: personal objectives Personal objectives for the CEO and the CFO were as follows: Alex Chesterman OBJECTIVE AREA OBJECTIVES PERFORMANCE OUTCOME Business and vision Execute the Companys strategy with a The Committee viewed the execution of the 95% 40% weighting view to delivering further revenue and Company strategy as a success in the year and the cross-sell opportunities.
Committee believes that ZPG is strongly placed as a leader of innovation digital platform space now Continue to work on securing the long-term and in the future.
The Committee further notes future of the business.
the increased revenue diversity of the Company Continue to build strong relationships with resulting from acquisitions.
Organisation and Continue to oversee successful business The Committee believes the CEO provided strong 90% culture 20% execution and integration in line with the leadership to ensure the continued success of weighting Companys strategy.
integration through the business, in particular the newly acquired Hometrack, Expert Agent, Ravensworth and Technciweb businesses which was achieved with minimal disruption to business activities.
People and talent Continue to build a strong leadership team The Committee viewed the work of the CEO in 85% 40% weighting and ensure adequate motivation, retention and building the leadership team of ZPG as strong, succession planning in place across the Company.
including the development of future succession plans and the integration of new talent from the acquired businesses to support the continued development of ZPG.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives equated to 90% of the bonus for this element being achieved.
Andy Botha OBJECTIVE AREA OBJECTIVES PERFORMANCE OUTCOME Business and vision Develop a comprehensive operating plan The Committee believes the CFO successfully 90% 40% weighting to deliver the 2017 budget, with clear KPIs developed the financial operating plan which and ongoing accountability in place across supported the Companys achievement of the the Company.
2017 budget and notes the development and communication of a clear 2020 strategic plan for Ensure the Investor Relations programme and the business.
The Committee viewed the Investor activities are conducted in a manner that builds Relations activities as successful during the year strong external stakeholder relationships.
with the CFO making a strong personal contribution in strengthening ZPGs relationships with its key external stakeholders.
Organisation Ensure the deployment of the new Finance The Finance Systems were deployed on time and 90% and culture Systems are delivered on time within budget.
within budget and significant work has gone into 20% weighting integrating and harmonising systems and processes Take executive responsibility for external reporting across the business.
including half full-year reporting requirements, that they are well managed and delivered in a timely manner with no audit issues raised.
People and talent Create a scalable group finance team with The Committee views the work done by the CFO 90% to develop of the Finance team this year as strong 40% weighting and develop the team, ensuring the right level of talent, retention and succession plans in place with a number of significant hires and retention to continue to support business growth.
and succession plans identified and developed.
The Committee believes that the CFO has Continue to build strong relationships with developed and established himself further the Board.
as a member of the Board this year.
86 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance Long Term Incentive Plan audited The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2017 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Maximum Percentage of percentage award vesting of face Face value at threshold value that Award level, Options of award performance could vest Performance Name Award type Date of grant % of salary awarded '000 % % conditions Weighting 1 Andy Botha LTIP 6 December 2016 150 130,290 412.5 25 100 Relative TSR 50% EPS 50% 1 130,290 nil-cost options awarded on 6 December 2016 which represented 150% of salary at a share price of 3.166 as at close on 5 December 2016.
The award will vest in 2019 subject to performance against the performance conditions above.
The awards will vest subject to the Companys adjusted basic earnings per share and relative TSR performance measured over the three year performance period ending on 6 December 2019 as set out below: Performance measure Measurement period Performance target Vesting level TSR relative to the FTSE 250 Upper quartile 100% excluding real estate and equity 6 December 2016 Median to upper quartile Prorate on a straight-line basis investment trusts 6 December 2019 between 25% and 100% Below median Nil Adjusted EPS 18% p. a.
100% Three financial years ending Between 10% and 18% p. a. Prorate on a straight-line basis 30 September 2019 between 25% and 100% Below 10% p. a. Nil Award vesting The LTIP awards granted in August 2014 vest on the announcement of the Companys results announcement on 29 November 2017.
As the performance period was completed during the 2017 financial year the value of the awards has been provided below.
Performance against the targets and the % of the LTIP award vesting is set out below: The Company has assessed relative TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding real estate and equity investment trusts.
ZPG ranked at the upper quartile equating to a vesting of 100% for this element.
The EPS over the Period has grown by 32.7% against the range of 1527.5% p. a. equating to a vesting of 100% of the EPS element.
Overall vesting for the 2014 LTIP award is 100%.
Total shareholder return 2017 outcome Adjusted EPS 2017 outcome 1 Relative total shareholder return rank 48 189 Adjusted EPS 32.7% Median TSR rank 95 189 Threshold EPS growth 10% p. a.
Upper quartile TSR rank 48 189 Maximum EPS growth 27.5% p. a. Vesting level 100% Vesting level 100% 1 Total shareholder return for the purposes of this LTIP award was measured from the IPO price of 2.20 over a three year period to 23 June 2017. www.
co. uk 87 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Long Term Incentive Plan audited continued Award vesting continued Value of nil-cost Actual Number of Number of Number of options for 2 performance nil-cost options Prorata nil-cost options nil-cost options single figure Name Performance criteria Weighting against target awarded adjustment lapsing vesting 000 Alex Chesterman Relative total 50% 100% 1 shareholder return 306,818 187,500 119,318 419 Adjusted EPS 50% 100% 1 The grant for Alex Chesterman was adjusted prorata on commencement of the VCP on 1 October 2015.
2 Value calculated based on the average share price at close on 22 November 2017 of 3.511 as it was available at the time of compiling this report, rather than the average share price in last quarter of the 2017 financial year as it is a more accurate representation of the value provided.
No nil-cost options had vested as at 30 September 2017.
The LTIP award granted to Stephen Morana, the Companys former CFO, in August 2014 also vests on 29 November 2017 in accordance with his good leaver status outlined in the Annual Report 2016.
His award of 91,955 reduced prorata for time due to his cessation of employment from 170,454 will vest at 100% equating to a value of 276,000, using the share price at 22 November 2017, as above.
We note that this vesting falls within 2018 and hence will be disclosed under payments to past Directors section next year.
Value Creation Plan audited The VCP was approved by shareholders on 1 October 2015.
In line with the terms of the plan the CEO accrues a number of nil-cost options based on the TSR achieved over an 8% threshold below which there is no reward.
The plan has a four year term and includes four measurement dates at which the performance is assessed which subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM will be extended to a six year term with two further measurement dates.
The first measurement date occurred on 3 January 2017 when 3,233,127 nil-cost options were awarded to Alex Chesterman in respect of TSR performance from 1 October 2015 to 30 December 2016 as set out below.
50% of the options will become exercisable on the third measurement date December 2018 provided that a minimum return of 8% is maintained.
The remaining 50% of the options will become exercisable on the fourth measurement date December 2019 provided that a minimum annual return of 8% is maintained.
The number of options granted was calculated on a measurement price of 3.197, generating an increase in total shareholder return of over 437 million for shareholders.
Name Award type Base price 2.19 Measurement price 3.197 Hurdle price 8% p. a. from base price 2.41 Total value created over the Period 000 437,078 3% of value created over the hurdle 000 10,323 Update on nil-cost options banked on the first measurement date: Face value 1 Nil-cost options of award Performance Name Award type Date of grant awarded 000 conditions Alex Chesterman VCP 3 January 2017 3,233,127 10,323 8% TSR needs to be maintained over the performance period for banked options to vest 1 Face value using share price of 3.193, being the closing share price on 30 December 2016.
A further grant under the VCP is expected to be made in January 2018 in respect of the measurement period to December 2017.
88 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate governance HMRC Share Incentive Plan audited The Share Incentive Plan SIP is made available to all employees, including the Executive Directors.
There are no performance conditions attached to the grants.
Throughout 2017, the CEO and CFO bought Partnership Shares on a monthly basis through the plan.
The Company continues to match Partnership Shares purchased on a one-to-one ratio.
Matching Shares granted each month are subject to the Directors continued employment for a period of one year from the grant date.
Alex Chesterman and Andy Botha purchased 512 and 416 Partnership Shares respectively during the Period.
The Company has issued an equal number of Matching Shares to each Executive Director.
23 June 2017 marked the three year anniversary of ZPGs IPO and consequently the 1,137 Free Shares issued to all staff employed at IPO, including the CEO, became available at this date.
Andy Botha was not employed at the date of IPO and therefore was not granted any Free Shares.
At 30 September 2017, and as at the date of this report, the Free Shares awarded to Alex Chesterman remain in the SIP Trust and have not been withdrawn.
Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office audited There were no payments made to past Directors or for loss of office in the Period.
Statement of Directors shareholdings audited Shareholding requirements in operation at the Company are currently 400% of base salary for the CEO and 100% of base salary for the CFO.
During 2017 the Remuneration Committee decided to increase the minimum shareholding requirement for the CFO to 200%.
Executive Directors are required to build up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time, which would normally be five years.
Andy Botha joined the Company on 18 April 2016 as CFO and is expected to build up the required shareholding over a reasonable period.
The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests as at 30 September 2017 are set out in the table below.
Shares held directly Other shares held Shares not Interests Current subject to Total number subject to shareholding Beneficially performance of Ordinary and performance Shareholding 2,4 4,5 Director % salary 3 owned1 conditions Deferred Shares conditions requirement met Alex Chesterman 2,874 4,270,144 288,781 4,498,925 3,352,445 Yes Andy Botha 416 18,149 18,565 174,360 No 1 Includes Partnership shares purchased under the SIP.
No shares were held by any connected parties.
Since 30 September 2017 Alex Chesterman and Andy Botha have each purchased 84 Partnership Shares through the Companys SIP.
These shares have been matched on a one-to-one ratio by the Company.
There have been no other movements since 30 September 2017 to the date of this report.
2 Includes Matching Shares still subject to forfeiture awarded under the Companys SIP and nil-cost options granted under the Annual Bonus Plan.
3 The closing share price of 361.7 pence as at 30 September 2017 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
Unvested LTIP and Annual Bonus Plan shares and options do not count towards satisfaction of the shareholding guidelines.
Matching Shares under the Share Incentive Plan which are still subject to forfeiture or lapse do not count towards the shareholding requirement.
4 Nil-cost options granted under the Companys LTIP and Annual Bonus Plans exclude any dividend equivalents that may have accrued.
5 Interests subject to performance conditions include the unvested LTIP and VCP nil-cost options.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares are set out below: Shares held at 30 September Director 2017 1 Mike Evans Chairman 34,494 Duncan Tatton-Brown 22,727 2 James Welsh Grenville Turner Kevin Beatty Robin Klein 583,996 Sherry Coutu 588,790 2 Stephen Daintith Vin Murria 1 Shares held include any shares held by connected parties.
There has been no movement in the number of shares held between 30 September 2017 and the date of this report.
2 Stephen Daintith resigned from the Board on 1 January 2017 and was replaced by James Welsh.
co. uk 89 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Comparison of overall performance and pay TSR graph The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared to the FTSE 250 Index.
The graph shows the total shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 23 June 2014.
180 160 140 120 100 80 Source: Thomson Reuters DataStream ZPG Plc FTSE 250 Index 60 Chief Executive Officer historical remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the last three years valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
The Company has expanded quickly from a start-up company and the Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable in its earlier years bears any comparative value to that paid in its later years and therefore the Committee has chosen to disclose remuneration only for the three most recent financial years: Chief Executive Officer 2017 2016 2015 Total single figure 000 1,700 1,264 1,070 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 90 98 97 LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity 100 The 2014 LTIP vested on 29 November 2017 after our financial year end.
However, given the majority of the performance period has been completed by the end of FY17, the value of the LTIP vesting has been included in the single figure table to FY17.
The LTIP grant for the Chief Executive Officer was adjusted prorata on commencement of the VCP on 1 October 2015.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2017 financial year and the 2016 financial year compared with other disbursements.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company accounts.
Disbursements Disbursements from profit from profit in 2017 in 2016 financial year financial year million million % change 1 Profit distributed by way of dividend 24.9 21.5 16 Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 57.1 39.6 44 2 Total tax contributions 57.4 53.2 8 1 Includes dividends paid and proposed in respect of the financial year.
2 Total tax contributions include tax for the Period in respect of corporation tax, PAYE, National Insurance contributions and VAT.
The increase in overall spend on pay, including Executive Directors, reflects the increase in our employee numbers as a result of acquisitions across both financial years.
90 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 23 06 2014 30 09 2014 30 12 2014 30 03 2015 30 06 2015 30 09 2015 30 12 2015 30 03 2016 30 06 2016 31 09 2016 30 12 2016 30 03 2017 30 06 2017 29 09 2017 Value of 100 invested Corporate governance Change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer from 2016 to 2017 compared with the average percentage change for employees.
% increase in remuneration in 2017 compared with remuneration in 2016 CEO Employees Salary 6% 6% Annual bonus 3% 5% Taxable benefits Ratio of CEO earnings relative to employee earnings The table below illustrates the CEO earnings relative to employee earnings.
Chief Executive Officer 2017 2016 1 Chief Executive earnings 000 1,700 1,264 2 Average employee earnings 000 59 58 Pay ratio 28.7x 21.8x 1 The Chief Executives earnings are calculated on the same basis as the total single figure of remuneration as shown on page 84.
2 Average employee earnings are based on staff costs calculated on the same basis as in the notes to the financial statements, excluding social security costs, based upon the average number of full-time equivalent employees.
The CEO single figure doesn't include any value of any long-term incentives as the CEO participates in a multi-year VCP arrangement.
This ratio will likely increase on vesting of the first part of the CEO's VCP in 2019.
The increase in ratio from 2016 to 2017 is largely driven by the impact of the 2014 LTIP vesting.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the 2018 financial year See pages 70 to 71 for details.
Statement of voting at general meeting The following table sets out the recent shareholder votes on remuneration: 1 Date For Against Withheld Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016 2 February 2017 342,289,752 89.16% 41,597,373 10.84% 1,237,005 Remuneration Policy 1 October 2015 324,285,344 84.27% 60,532,694 15.73% 1,116,923 VCP 1 October 2015 324,482,509 84.08% 61,452,168 15.92% 284 1 Votes For included those votes giving the Chairman discretion.
Votes were received in respect of 91.85% of the Companys issued share capital for the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016, 92.04% for the Remuneration Policy and 92.30% for the VCP.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote and the Remuneration Policy to a binding vote: at the AGM on 30 January 2018.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee reviewed the advisers to the Committee.
Following this review the Committee retained the services of PwC as independent remuneration advisers.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and members of the Executive Management Team.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received from PwC during the year was objective and independent.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fees of 16,250 2016: 36,250 were provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice received.
PwC has no other connection with the Company.
Sherry Coutu Chair, Remuneration Committee www.
