Report on Directors remuneration Our people are fundamental to the delivery of great guest experiences Imelda Walsh and where we have consistently high employee engagement, Chair of the sales growth is strongest.
It is pleasing therefore that our employee Remuneration Committee engagement scores have improved by 2ppts and that retail team member turnover has reduced by 4.1ppts over the year.
This reduction in team turnover also delivers a significant saving when the cost of recruitment, training and induction is taken into account.
Providing a pipeline of future talent is also vitally important and over the year a further 1,300 apprentices have joined our various programmes, and our new on-line learning platform provides more flexibility for employees to learn and develop in a way that suits them and their lifestyle.
Despite the good progress made across a number of areas, the macro environment in which the business operates has been challenging, with unprecedented cost headwinds impacting the industry as a whole.
The actions taken over the year have enabled a sustained return to sales growth and made it possible to mitigate a significant proportion of the previously identified cost headwinds, nevertheless the cumulative I am pleased to present the Directors impact of these costs has resulted in adjusted Operating Profit falling remuneration report in respect of the financial by 1.3% to 314m.
year, which ended on 30 September 2017.
Remuneration Policy Review The current remuneration policy for Directors was approved by Background and business context shareholders in January 2015 and therefore is due for renewal at the Total sales over the financial year grew by 94m, with like-for-like sales forthcoming AGM.
The Committee has undertaken a thorough review growth of 1.8%, consistently ahead of the market.
This strong sales of the existing Directors remuneration policy, taking full account of the performance is a result of our continued focus on our three priority areas: strategic priorities of Mitchells & Butlers, and the latest developments in building a more balanced business: instilling a more commercial culture: the external pay environment.
The Committee has concluded that the and driving an innovation agenda.
current structure, comprising a base salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive awards delivered in shares, and the Over 250 capital investment projects have been undertaken during the level of quantum, remains fit for purpose.
However, the Committee year, which have been focused on the premiumisation of the estate and has determined that some amendments to the policy are appropriate the improvement of amenity.
The rapid expansion of the Miller & Carter to ensure, primarily, that: i our incentive arrangements continue brand to over 80 locations, primarily through the conversion of existing to support the long-term success of the Company through a period sites, is a good example.
The remodel programme in Harvester has of market uncertainty: ii the policy is sufficiently flexible to remain prioritised higher levels of amenity, demonstrating that a fresh and applicable over the next policy period: and iii the alignment between contemporary design improves investment returns.
The Company has Executive Directors and shareholders is further strengthened.
reduced the redevelopment cycle from 11 to 12 years for each business to 6 to 7 years, an important factor in a fast moving consumer environment.
The key changes are set out below: As we have reviewed the estate 79 businesses were identified as not Increased flexibility in selection of bonus measures.
We are offering long-term growth potential, and these were sold during the year.
proposing to allow greater flexibility in the selection of annual bonus The four new operating divisions introduced in 2016 have improved our measures, to enable us to respond better to evolving priorities over the guest focus and across all businesses Net Promoter Score has increased policy period.
The current policy states that at least 75% will be based and customer complaints have reduced.
The use of social media by our on financial metrics with the balance based on non-financial or personal guests to provide feedback is becoming ever more prevalent and business metrics.
Under the proposed new policy at least 50% will be therefore managing on-line reputation is important.
Our Managers now based on financial objectives giving more scope to include strategic have access to an online feedback consolidation tool that allows them measures if appropriate.
However, for 2018, 70% will be based on to communicate directly and rapidly with our guests.
financial objectives see further detail below.
Progress has been made in improving operational effectiveness through Introduction of a long-term incentive plan post-vesting holding the introduction of a time and attendance system, and the next stage of period.
A post-vesting holding period will be introduced for future roll out will enable team members to swap shifts and to share resource long-term incentive awards requiring the Executive Directors to hold across businesses.
The second system that has been upgraded is our the after-tax value of shares until at least five years from grant.
This is stock management system which improves stock control and halves the intended to strengthen alignment between executives and shareholders time taken to complete stock counts.
Further enhancements to both of and to reflect best practice in this area.
these systems are planned, and we anticipate that further benefits will More stringent share ownership guidelines.
The Committee believes be seen in FY 2018. that the achievement and maintenance of a significant level of share Our guests also expect technology to evolve and enhance their ownership plays an important role in aligning the interests of Directors experiences with us, and during the year a mobile order at table facility and shareholders.
The guideline will be increased to 200% of salary for has been developed and trialled.
The expectation that food can be the CEO and 150% for all other Directors up from 150% for the CEO and delivered to guests at home continues to increase and during the year 100% for other directors.
Directors will continue to be required to retain the number of sites offering Deliveroo has increased to around 60 and all vested shares net of tax until the share ownership guideline is met.
trials with JustEat have also been successful, with delivery and click and This will apply to vested deferred bonus shares as well as shares vesting collect now available from many Harvester and Toby Carvery businesses.
from any long-term incentive plans.
2017 remuneration The 2017 annual bonus plan had two elements, Adjusted Operating 1 Profit Operating Profit and Guest Service.
Operating Profit of 314m, 66 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 was above the threshold level of 310m required for bonus under this The non-profit elements will only be payable if a threshold level of element to begin accruing and, as a result, 3% of salary out of 75% of financial performance is achieved.
For 2018 this will be set at 97.5% of salary under this element was earned.
the Operating Profit target, which is higher than the threshold required for payment under the Operating Profit element.
The primary measure of Guest Service was Net Promoter Score NPS, which is used as a survey to measure guest satisfaction.
Good progress Since 2015 the leading measure of Guest Health has been NPS and has been made and an NPS score of 59% was achieved, well above the in 2017 a new social media monitoring tool was introduced enabling maximum of 53% required to trigger a full pay-out under this element all social media reviews, including TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, and as a result 25% of salary under this element was earned.
In addition, to be combined into a single review score.
as I outlined in my statement last year, the Committee intended to review In addition, there has been an increased focus on improving the speed performance against other guest metrics, such as TripAdvisor and guest at which guest complaints are resolved, alongside a commitment to complaints, and I am pleased to confirm that good progress has also reducing the overall number of complaints received.
For example, the average TripAdvisor score increased from 3.5 to 3.7 and the number of complaints received also With this in mind, for 2018 the Guest Health measure will comprise fell by over 7%.
During the year the Company has also reviewed its a combination of all three elements, NPS, a combined social media approach to the measurement of guest satisfaction, recognising that review score and guest complaints.
Each element will have equal guests are increasingly choosing to provide feedback via other channels weighting and to achieve a maximum payment performance will need and in particular social media.
To this end a new social media monitoring to exceed target on at least two elements and be at target or better for tool has been introduced which enables all social media reviews, the third element.
This rounded assessment ensures that guest service including TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, to be combined into improvements are reviewed comprehensively and are not solely a single review score, and now over 80% of reviews are responded based on one metric.
to by the management team in the business, increasing their direct Mitchells & Butlers has measured employee engagement for engagement with their guests.
a number of years, and a clear correlation has been established This resulted in full bonuses being earned under this element which between employee engagement and guest satisfaction, which in turn reflected not only the strong actual NPS outcome but also the good has a positive impact on sales.
For this reason, the Committee felt that progress in guest service overall made during 2017. employee engagement should form part of the bonus scheme.
The Committee reviewed the results against the Operating Profit Food safety will always be a key priority and including a measure measure and guest service and noted the considerable impact of the based on the proportion of our businesses that achieve a high National cost headwinds experienced by the Company in FY 2017 and decided Food Hygiene Rating reflects our continued focus on the safe operation that awarding a bonus of 28% of salary reflected overall performance of our businesses.
As an additional check, overall workplace safety in the period.
performance will also be taken into account when determining the bonus safety outcome.
The 2015-2017 Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP performance condition also had two elements, growth in adjusted earnings per share More broadly, the Committee will continue to consider the overall 1 EPS and total shareholder return TSR, with each element weighted performance of the Company, not just the outcome of each individual equally.
Over the performance period EPS growth was 2.3 p. a. below measure.
the threshold level of performance required for vesting 8% p. a.. TSR Long-term incentives performance was also below the median threshold required for vesting.
The market is ever more challenging and uncertain, and the Committee As a result, the awards under both elements lapsed.
wants to take account of the further work the CEO is undertaking in defining plans that will further improve sales and increase efficiencies, Approach for FY 2018 in line with our three strategic priorities.
Therefore, the Committee did Salary not consider it appropriate to determine measures or agree targets for No salary increase will apply for any Executive Director.
Phil Urbans a long-term incentive plan at this time.
This will be a matter that the salary will remain at 510,000 and Tim Jones at 426,500.
Phil Urbans Committee considers over the next few months and does not expect salary has not increased since his appointment in September 2015 and to make an award until after the 2018 AGM.
We will consult with major Tim Jones salary was last increased in January 2015. shareholders prior to making any award.
The performance conditions Annual Bonus will be disclosed in full at the time of grant.
For 2018, 70% of bonus will be based on Operating Profit.
The remaining If you have any comments or questions on any element of the report, 30% will be based on non-profit elements linked to the business scorecard please email me, care of Craig Provett, Director of Compensation & 15% Guest Health, 10% Employee Engagement and 5% Safety, which Benefits, at Remco@mbplc.
com applies to all managers across Mitchells & Butlers.
Operating Profit 70% Imelda Walsh Half of the bonus opportunity will be payable for achieving a Chair of the Remuneration Committee demanding Operating Profit target.
The threshold at which bonus will 22 November 2017 begin to accrue has been set at 95% of target and full payment for this element would require very strong performance, well in excess of This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and has been approved by the Board.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act disclosure regulations the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Non-Profit Elements 30% Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The remaining 30% of the annual bonus plan will be allocated against 1.
Adjusted earnings per share and adjusted operating profit figures included in this the business scorecard as follows: report are quoted before separately disclosed items as set out in note 2.2 to the financial statements.
15% for Guest Health 10% for Employee Engagement 5% for Safety Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 67 Report on Directors remuneration continued FY 2017 annual bonus The annual bonus was based on two elements: 75% on Operating Profit AT A GLANCE and 25% on Guest Service as measured by our NPS.
This section briefly summarises the principles that Bonus Outcome underpin our remuneration policy, highlights performance Target Actual Result % of salary and remuneration outcomes for FY 2017, and our approach Operating Profit 326m 314m 96.2 % of target 3 for FY 2018.
More detail can be found in the annual report on remuneration on pages 78 to 87.
NPS 52% 59% Maximum 25 Bonus payments equivalent to 28% of base salary are due to be paid Remuneration principles to Executive Directors 145,456 in respect of Phil Urban and 121,717 Shareholder alignment in respect of Tim Jones.
A high proportion of reward is delivered in the form of equity, ensuring Executives have strong alignment with shareholders.
FY 2017 PRSP vesting The PRSP awards granted in November 2014 had a performance period Competitive ending on 30 September 2017.
50% of the award was based on relative Providing competitive reward that promotes the long-term success of the TSR performance and 50% on EPS growth.
business whilst enabling the attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre senior Executives.
Target Actual % vesting Performance-linked Total Shareholder A significant part of an Executives reward is linked to the performance Return relative to Median to of the business with a clear line of sight between business performance peer group upper quartile Below median Nil and delivery of shareholder value.
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth 8% to 16% CAGR 2.3% p. a. Nil Straightforward The remuneration structure is simple to understand for participants TSR performance was below median and EPS growth of 2.3% p. a. over and shareholders and is aligned to the strategic priorities of the business.
the period was below the threshold, therefore no part of the award vested.
FY 2017 single figure remuneration for Executive Directors 53 week Financial Year Short-term Pension related Long-term Total Basic salaries Taxable benefits incentives benefits incentives remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Phil Urban 518 15 146 91 770 Tim Jones 434 16 122 76 648 Total 952 31 268 167 1,418 Approach for FY 2018 Salary No salary increase will apply for any Executive Director.
Phil Urbans salary will remain at 510,000 and Tim Jones at 426,500.
Benefits and pension No change proposed.
A pension contribution or cash equivalent of 20% of salary will continue to apply.
Annual bonus No change to potential quantum 100% of salary.
Measures will be Operating Profit 70%, Guest Health 15%, Employee Engagement 10% and Safety 5%.
Half of any bonus payable will be deferred in shares and released in equal parts after 12 and 24 months.
PRSP Award levels remain unchanged at 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of base salary for the Finance Director.
The measures and targets for the awards to be made for the 2018-20 cycle are still being determined by the Committee.
The performance conditions will be disclosed in full at the time of grant.
A two-year holding period will be introduced for all future long-term incentive awards, to strengthen alignment between Executives and shareholders.
Share ownership guidelines The guideline will be increased to 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% for all other Executive Directors up from 150% for the CEO and 100% for other Executive Directors.
Directors will be required to retain all vested shares net of tax until the share ownership guideline is met.
This will apply to vested deferred bonus shares as well as shares vesting from any long-term incentive plans.
68 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 The Committee considers a broad range of reference points when determining policy and pay levels: these include external market POLICY REPORT benchmarks as well as internal reference points.
Any such reference points are set in an appropriate context and are not considered in isolation.
This section of the report sets out the Companys Directors remuneration policy that will be put forward for approval The remuneration policy for Executive Directors, which is set out in a binding vote of shareholders at the 2018 AGM on over the following pages supports the business needs of the Company, 23 January 2018.
The policy will take formal effect from ensuring it promotes long-term success whilst enabling it to attract, that date, subject to shareholder approval.
It is intended retain and motivate senior Executives of a high calibre.
The Committee that the policy will formally apply for the three years is satisfied that the remuneration policy supports the Companys strategy beginning on the date of approval.
of growing long-term shareholder value and appropriately balances fixed and variable remuneration.
With a high proportion of reward delivered Key considerations when determining the Directors in the form of equity, this ensures that Executives have a strong alignment remuneration policy with shareholders through the Companys share price.
The primary objective of the Directors remuneration policy is to promote the long-term success of the business whilst ensuring that the Company Changes to the previous Directors remuneration policy does not pay more than is necessary.
In seeking to achieve this objective, The Committee has undertaken a thorough review of the existing the Committee is mindful of the views of a broad range of stakeholders Directors remuneration policy, taking full account of the strategic in the business and accordingly takes account of a number of factors objectives of Mitchells & Butlers and the latest developments in the when setting remuneration policy including market conditions, pay external pay environment.
The Committee has concluded that the and benefits in relevant comparator organisations, terms and conditions current structure, comprising a base salary, benefits, pension, annual of employment across the Group, the Companys risk appetite, the bonus and long-term incentive awards delivered in shares, and the expectations of institutional investors and feedback from shareholders overall level of quantum, remains, largely, fit for purpose.
the Committee has determined that some important amendments to the policy are appropriate to ensure, primarily, that: i our incentive Shareholder views arrangements continue to support the long-term success of the The Board remains committed to shareholder dialogue and the Company through a period of market uncertainty: ii the policy is Remuneration Committee will consult extensively with major sufficiently flexible to remain applicable over the next policy period: shareholders when considering any significant changes to our and iii the alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders remuneration arrangements.
The Committee also considers shareholder is further strengthened.
feedback received in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report each year following the AGM.
This, together with any additional feedback The key changes are set out below: received from shareholders and other stakeholders from time to time, Increased flexibility in selection of bonus measures.
We are is then considered as part of the Committees annual review of proposing to allow greater flexibility in the selection of annual bonus remuneration policy and its implementation.
The Committee also measures, to enable us to better respond to evolving priorities over the actively monitors developments in the expectations of institutional policy period.
The current policy states that at least 75% will be based investors and their representative bodies.
on financial metrics with the balance based on non-financial or Employment conditions personal business metrics.
It is proposed that the new policy requires The Committee is regularly updated throughout the year on pay and that at least 50% is based on financial objectives giving us more scope conditions applying to Group employees.
Where significant changes to include strategic measures if appropriate.
At the present time, the are proposed to employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, these Committee intends that 70% of the bonus opportunity will be based are highlighted for the attention of the Committee at an early stage.
The Committee is informed of the base pay review budget applicable Introduction of a long-term incentive plan post-vesting holding to other employees and is cognisant of changes to the National Living period.
A post-vesting holding period will be introduced for future Wage and the National Minimum Wage when considering the pay long-term incentive awards requiring the Executive Directors to hold of Executive Directors.
the after-tax value of shares until at least five years from grant.
This is Employees are not specifically consulted on Executive remuneration.
intended to strengthen alignment between Executives and shareholders All employees are, however, invited to take part in our annual Your Say and to reflect best practice in this area.
employee engagement survey in which they have an opportunity to More stringent share ownership guidelines.
The Committee provide anonymous feedback on a wide range of topics of interest or believes that the achievement and maintenance of a significant level concern to them.
The results of the survey are reviewed by the Board: of share ownership plays an important role in aligning the interests of any significant concerns over remuneration would be considered Directors and shareholders.
The guideline will be increased to 200% separately by the Committee and, if appropriate, taken into account of salary for the CEO and 150% for all other Directors up from 150% when determining the remuneration policy.
In addition, each year an for the CEO and 100% for other Directors.
Directors will continue employee forum is held, which gives the opportunity for employees to be required to retain all vested shares net of tax until the share to ask questions of senior management, via elected representatives.
However, this will now also apply to The Remuneration Committee Chair will attend the forum on an vested deferred bonus shares.
annual basis to answer questions raised by employee representatives concerning Executive pay.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 69 Report on Directors remuneration continued Policy table The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Base salary Provides a sound basis on Salaries are normally subject to The general policy is to set salaries Executive Directors performance No recovery or withholding which to attract and retain annual review, typically effective broadly around mid-market levels is a factor considered when provisions apply.
Executives of appropriate from 1 January.
with increases in percentage terms determining salaries.
calibre to deliver the strategic typically in line with that of the Salary levels may be influenced by: Performance is reviewed in line with objectives of the Group.
the established performance review role, experience or performance: To reflect the market value of Percentage increases beyond those process in place across the Group.
the role, personal contribution, granted to the wider workforce Group profitability and prevailing experience and competence.
may be awarded in certain market conditions: and circumstances such as when there periodic external benchmarking is a change in the individuals role of similar roles at comparable or responsibility or where there has companies by size and sector.
been a fundamental change in the scale or nature of the Company.
Payable four-weekly throughout the year.
In addition, a higher increase may be made where an individual had Pensionable.
been appointed to a new role at below market salary while gaining experience.
Subsequent demonstration of strong performance may result in a salary increase that is higher than for the wider workforce.
There may also be circumstances where the Committee agrees to pay above mid-market levels to secure or retain an individual who is considered, in the judgement of the Committee, to possess significant and relevant experience which is required to enable the delivery of the Companys strategy.
70 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Annual Performance Bonus cash and shares Provides a direct link between The Committee determines bonus Currently the normal maximum The majority of the bonus outcome Recovery and withholding annual performance and payment level after the year-end payment is 100% of salary.
will be based on financial measures.
provisions apply where there reward.
Incentivises the by reference to performance targets This may be a single measure or a has been a misstatement of the At the discretion of the Committee, achievement of key measures previously set by the Committee.
mix of metrics as determined by accounts, or other data, or a serious the maximum earnings potential linked to Company strategy.
misdemeanour or serious The cash element of the may be increased in line with the misconduct by the participant Deferred bonus, awarded bonus is normally payable in plan rules up to 150% of salary.
The remainder may be based on has occurred prior to payment in shares, provides a retention December following the end non-financial measures or personal or vesting or within two years element and additional of the financial year.
of payment or vesting of shares.
alignment of interests Up to half of any bonus award The bonus measures are reviewed to shareholders.
At least half annually and the Committee has of any bonus award is deferred the discretion to vary the mix of as shares under the terms of the measures or to introduce new Short Term Deferred Incentive measures taking into account the Plan STDIP below.
strategic focus of the Company.
Key terms of the STDIP are: No bonus is payable under the financial element s unless Deferred bonus share a demanding threshold level awards are normally released of performance is achieved.
in two equal amounts 12 and 24 months after deferral subject As the bonus is subject to to continued employment performance conditions, any or good leaver status.
deferred bonus is not subject to further performance conditions At the discretion of the Committee but remains subject to recovery dividends paid between grant and withholding provisions.
and vesting may accrue on vested shares.
The Committee may alter the bonus outcome if it considers that Shares, which vest, after the the payout is inconsistent with the settlement of income tax and Companys overall performance national insurance must be taking account of any factors it retained until the relevant considers relevant.
This will help shareholding guideline has ensure that payouts reflect overall been met.
Company performance during the period.
The Committee will consult Non-pensionable.
with leading investors if appropriate before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 71 Report on Directors remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Restricted Share Plan, PRSP To align the interests of senior Discretionary awards may be made Currently the normal maximum Performance is normally Recovery and withholding Executives with sustained each year, normally taking the form annual award is up to 200% measured over no less than provisions apply where there long-term value creation.
of nil or nominal cost options.
has been a misstatement of the accounts, or other data, or a Incentivises participants Awards normally have a three year The PRSP rules include an annual Awards will be subject to serious misdemeanour or serious to grow the business for performance and vesting period.
Any the achievement of stretching misconduct by the participant has the long term in line with increase to the normal maximum targets designed to incentivise occurred prior to payment or At the discretion of the Committee the Companys strategy.
of 200% of salary, other than in performance in support of vesting or within two years of vested options may attract exceptional circumstances such the Groups strategy and vesting of shares.
To provide an element Dividend Accrued Shares between as recruitment, would be subject business objectives.
of retention through award and the end of the vesting to prior consultation with leading and beyond the or holding period.
The Committee has the flexibility investors, if appropriate.
to vary the mix of measures or A two year post-vesting holding to introduce new measures for period applies which requires each award, taking into account awards to be retained for a period business priorities at the time of two years from the end of the of grant.
vesting period, except for shares sold to pay income tax and national For TSR and financial measures, insurance upon exercise vesting.
up to 25% of that element may vest for threshold performance.
Shares, which vest, after the settlement of income tax and The Committee may alter the national insurance, must be vesting outcome if it considers that retained until the relevant the level of vesting is inconsistent shareholding guideline has with the Companys overall been met.
performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
Under the rules of the PRSP, This will help ensure that vesting conditional share awards may reflects overall Company also be granted although there performance during the period.
is currently no plan to grant The Committee would seek to such awards.
consult with leading investors if appropriate, before any exercise Non-pensionable.
of its discretion to increase the vesting outcome.
Pension or cash allowance To provide a market-aligned Contribution towards a Company The Company contribution No performance metrics apply.
No recovery or withholding retirement benefit.
or personal pension scheme and or is up to 20% of base salary.
a cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions, or a combination of both.
72 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Other benefits To provide competitive Benefits normally include but are In line with market practice, No performance metrics apply.
No recovery or withholding and market-aligned benefits not limited to private healthcare, the value of benefits may vary provisions apply other than if to assist in retaining and life assurance, annual health check, from year to year depending relocation costs were provided.
employee assistance programme, on the cost to the Company A proportion of any relocation use of a Company vehicle or cash from third-party suppliers.
costs may be recovered where a equivalent, and discounts on food Director leaves the employment and associated drinks purchased of the Group within two years of in our businesses.
Private appointment or date of relocation.
healthcare is provided for the Executive, spouse or partner and dependent children.
Discount vouchers are provided on the same basis to all employees and can be redeemed in any of our managed businesses provided the purchase is a personal, not a business, expense.
Executive Directors may participate in any of the Companys all-employee share schemes e. g. Sharesave and SIP on the same basis as all other employees and in line with prevailing HMRC limits.
Relocation or the temporary provision of accommodation may be offered where the Company requires a Director to relocate.
Expatriate allowances may be offered where required.
Travel and, if relevant, related expenses such as accommodation may be reimbursed on a gross of tax basis.
Executive Directors may become eligible for any new benefits introduced to a wider set of other Group employees.
Shareholding policy To align the interests of the The Chief Executive is expected n a n a n a Executive Directors with to hold and maintain Mitchells & shareholders and promote Butlers shares to the value of a a long-term approach to minimum of 200% of base salary.
Other Executive Directors are expected to hold and maintain Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 150% of base salary.
Except for those sold to cover the acquisition cost together with the associated income tax and National Insurance contributions, Executive Directors will be required to retain shares arising from share schemes until the minimum level of ownership required has been achieved.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director or a connected person are included.
Shares or share options which are subject to a performance condition are not included.
Deferred shares and options which are vested but unexercised, are also not included.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 73 Report on Directors remuneration continued Notes to the policy table Selection of performance measures and targets The choice of performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of key financial targets and individual and or strategic performance measures intended to ensure that Executive Directors are incentivised to deliver across a range of objectives for which they are accountable.
The Committee has retained some flexibility on the specific measures which will be used to ensure that any measures are fully aligned with the strategic imperatives prevailing at the time they are set.
The choice of the performance conditions applicable to the PRSP awards will be aligned with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
The Committee has retained flexibility on the measures, which will be used for future award cycles to ensure that the measures are fully aligned with the strategy prevailing at the time the awards are granted.
Notwithstanding this, the Committee would, if appropriate, seek to consult with major shareholders in advance of any material change to the choice or weighting of the PRSP performance measures.
The Committee will review the calibration of targets applicable to the annual bonus and the PRSP annually to ensure they remain appropriate and sufficiently challenging, taking into account the Companys strategic objectives and the interests of shareholders.
Differences in remuneration policy between Executive Directors and other employees The overall approach to reward for employees across the workforce is a key reference point when setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
When reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors, the Committee pays close attention to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce and in normal circumstances the increase for Executive Directors will be no higher than the average increase for the general workforce.
The key difference between the remuneration of Executive Directors and that of our other employees is that, overall, at senior levels, remuneration is increasingly long term, and at risk with an emphasis on performance-related pay linked to business performance and share-based remuneration.
This ensures that remuneration at senior levels will increase or decrease in line with business performance and provides alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
In particular, long-term incentives are provided only to the most senior Executives, as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall levels of performance.
The Company operates HMRC-approved all-employee share plans Sharesave and SIP enabling all our employees to become shareholders in the Company.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee may approve payments to satisfy commitments agreed prior to the approval of this remuneration policy, for example, those outstanding and unvested incentive awards which have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
The Committee may also approve payments outside of this remuneration policy in order to satisfy legacy arrangements made to an employee prior to and not in contemplation of promotion to the Board of Directors.
All historic awards that were granted but remain outstanding, remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the incentive plans described in the policy table according to their respective rules, the policy set out above and in accordance with the Listing Rules, applicable legislation and HMRC guidance where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of award and or payment, subject to policy limits: the choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special dividends.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on Directors remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
74 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Recovery or withholding Fees To attract and retain Payable in cash, four-weekly Current fee levels are shown in No performance metrics apply.
No recovery or withholding applies.
Non-Executive Directors throughout the year.
the annual report on remuneration.
of appropriate calibre Fee levels may be increased, taking Fees are normally reviewed annually and experience.
into account factors such as the time with any increase usually taking commitment of the role and market effect from 1 January each year.
levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee In exceptional circumstances, without the Chairman present.
if there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments Fee levels for the Non-Executive for Non-Executive Directors, the Directors are determined by Board may pay extra fees to the Company Chairman and recognise the additional workload.
Executive Directors by reference to companies of similar size and sector as well as time commitment and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors receive an additional fee for chairing a committee.
Where a Non-Executive Director undertakes additional responsibilities, other than the chairing of a committee, additional fees may be set.
Travel, accommodation and other related expenses incurred in carrying out the role will be paid by the Company including, if relevant, any gross-up for tax.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus arrangements, share schemes, benefit schemes other than the all-employee discount voucher scheme or pension plans.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy A key principle of the Groups remuneration policy is that variable shortand long-term reward should be linked to the financial performance of the Group.
The charts below show the composition of the remuneration of the CEO and Finance Director at minimum, on-target and maximum levels of performance in FY 2018.
Chief Executive 000 Finance Director 000 2,500 2,500 2,144 2,000 2,000 1,541 47.6% 1,500 1,500 38.7% 1,124 880 22.7% 1,000 1,000 23.8% 17.0% 614 22.7% 27.7% 518 24.2% 500 500 100.0% 54.6% 28.6% 100.0% 58.8% 33.6% 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 75 Report on Directors remuneration continued The performance scenarios demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration which would be payable in respect of each remuneration element at each of the performance levels.
In developing these scenarios the following assumptions have been made: Minimum Only the fixed elements of remuneration are payable.
The fixed element consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary effective from 1 January 2018.
Benefits are based on actual FY 2017 figures and include company car, healthcare and taxable expenses.
Pension is the cash allowance and or Company pension contribution payable in respect of base salary from 1 January 2018.
On-target In addition to the minimum, this reflects the amount payable for on-target performance under the shortand long-term incentive plans: 50% of maximum 50% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director is payable under the short-term incentive plan: and 25% of the award 50% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 35% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
Maximum In addition to the minimum, maximum payment is achieved under both the shortand long-term incentive plans such that: 100% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan for the Chief Executive and Finance Director: and 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
A breakdown of the elements included in the illustrations of application of remuneration policy is shown in the table below: Fixed 000 Short-term plan 000 Long-term plan 000 Base pay Benefits Pension Total fixed On-target Maximum On-target Maximum Chief Executive 510 15 89 614 255 510 255 1,020 Finance Director 426.5 16 75 517.5 213.3 426.5 149.3 597.1 Note: The value received under the short-term plan is the gross value of awards before 50% is deferred into shares.
The values received under the short-term plan and long-term incentive plan do not take into account dividend accrued shares that are payable on the vesting of awards nor any changes in share price.
Service contracts Executive Directors contracts The table below summarises key elements of the service contracts applicable to Executive Directors: Notice period Executive Directors are employed under service contracts that may be terminated at any time on up to one years notice from the Company and on a minimum of six months notice from the Executive Director.
a Any payment made in lieu of notice would comprise base salary only and may be payable in instalments in line with the established salary payment dates until the expiry of the notice period or, if earlier, may be the date on which alternative employment or other engagement is secured with the same or higher base salary.
If employment is secured at a lower rate of base salary, subsequent instalments of the payment in lieu of notice may be reduced by the value of alternative income.
Service contracts contain a provision enabling the Company to put the Executive Director on garden leave after notice to terminate the service contract has been given by either party.
During this period, the Executive will be entitled to base salary only.
There is no enhanced provision on a change of control.
Termination If an Executive Directors employment with the Group ends during the financial year, normally any entitlement to bonus for that year is forfeited.
However, if the individual leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, death or sale of the employing business or company or if the Committee so decides in any other case, at the Committees discretion the Executive Director may receive a bonus pro-rated to time employed in the year or to such later date as the Committee may decide.
In such circumstances, the Committee may decide, at its discretion, to pay all the bonus in cash.
If an Executive Director ceases employment following the end of the financial year but before payment of the bonus in respect of that year, there is no entitlement to a bonus but the Committee may, at its discretion, pay a bonus for that year.
Any such bonus, at the Committees discretion, may be all in cash.
If an Executive Director ceases employment prior to the release of Bonus Award Shares under the STDIP for the same specified good leaver reasons as set out above, the Committee, at its discretion, may release the Bonus Award Shares and associated Dividend Accrued Shares at the date of termination.
Otherwise, the shares will be released on the normal release date.
If the Director leaves for any other reason, his entitlement to Bonus Award Shares and associated Dividend Accrued Shares is forfeited, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
If an Executive Director dies before an Award under the PRSP has vested, vesting of the award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares will occur as soon as practicable based on performance and on a time pro-rated basis.
If the Executive Director ceases employment for the same defined good leaver reasons as are specified above, the PRSP Award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares will vest following the end of the normal performance period and on a time pro-rated basis.
If employment ceases for any other reason, the Award will normally lapse, unless the Committee decides otherwise except that if employment ceases by reason of gross misconduct the PRSP Award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares must lapse.
The Committee has no discretion in relation to shares or options held under the all-employee share plans SIP and Sharesave : on termination these will vest, become exercisable or lapse in accordance with the legislation.
This arrangement applies to Phil Urban and any future Executive Director appointments.
Any payments in lieu of notice in respect of Tim Jones, who is employed on a legacy contract, will comprise base salary and contractual benefits only.
76 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the Company, and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which may be suffered as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Directors termination package, including without limitation : compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for the Director executing a settlement agreement: payment of the leaving Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements: and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on consultancy or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
External directorships Executive Directors may accept one external Non-Executive appointment with the Companys prior approval, as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Chairman, do not have service contracts but serve under letters of appointment.
Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable without notice and with no entitlement to compensation.
Payment of fees will cease immediately on termination.
Ron Robson and Josh Levy were appointed to the Board pursuant to the terms of the Piedmont Deed of Appointment, information on which is set out on page 49.
Copies of both the individual letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts for Executive Directors are available at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours and on our website.
Copies will also be available for shareholders to view at the 2018 AGM.
Recruitment of Executive Directors Where it is necessary to appoint a replacement or additional Executive Director, the Committee will set a base salary appropriate to the calibre, experience and responsibilities of the new appointee and in line with our policy set out on page 70.
The maximum level of variable pay is 400% of base salary 150% in relation to annual cash bonus STDIP and 250% in relation to the PRSP.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment, it may be necessary to set different annual bonus STDIP performance measures and targets than those applicable to other Executive Directors.
Benefits including pension, Company vehicle or cash allowance, healthcare, life assurance, health check and, where applicable, relocation assistance would be consistent with the principles of the policy as set out on pages 72 and 73.
For an internal appointment, his or her existing pension arrangements may continue to operate which may include participation as an employee deferred member in the defined benefit plan, which is closed to future accrual and any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other previously awarded entitlements would continue, and be disclosed in the next annual report on Directors remuneration.
In addition to the above, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements in order to buy-out remuneration relinquished on leaving a former employer.
In the event that such a buy-out is necessary to secure the services of an Executive Director then the structure of any award or payment will mirror, as far as is possible, the arrangements in place at the incoming Executive Directors previous employer.
Any share awards made in this regard may have no performance conditions, or different performance conditions, or a shorter vesting period compared to the Companys existing plans, as appropriate.
Shareholders will be informed of any buy-out arrangements at the time of the Executive Directors appointment.
Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors fees are set by the Chairman and Executive Directors: and the Chairmans fee is set by the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman The Committee will recommend to the Board a fee appropriate to the calibre, experience and responsibilities of the new appointee.
Other Non-Executive Directors The fee will be set in line with the fee structure for Non-Executive Directors in place at the date of appointment.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 77 Report on Directors remuneration continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section details the remuneration payable to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman for the financial year ended 30 September 2017, and sets out how we intend to implement our remuneration policy for the 2018 financial year.
This report, along with the Chairs annual statement, will be subject to a single advisory vote at the AGM on 23 January 2018.
Committee terms of reference The Committees terms of reference were last reviewed in 2016 and are available on our website.
The Committees main responsibilities include: determining and making recommendations to the Board on the Companys executive remuneration policy and its cost: taking account of all factors necessary when determining the policy, the objective of which shall be to ensure remuneration policy promotes the long-term success of the Company: determining the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other senior Executives, and the Company Chairman: having regard to the pay and employment conditions across the Company when setting the remuneration of individuals under the remit of the Committee: and aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders by providing the potential to earn significant rewards where significant shareholder value has been delivered.
Committee membership and operation Committee members and their respective appointment dates are detailed in the table below.
Name Date of appointment to the Committee Name Date of appointment to the Committee Imelda Walsh Chair 11 July 2013 Bob Ivell 11 July 2013 Colin Rutherford 11 July 2013 Eddie Irwin 11 July 2013 Stewart Gilliland 11 July 2013 Josh Levy 20 July 2017 Dave Coplin 29 Feb 2016 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Ron Robson was a member of the Committee from 11 July 2013 and stepped down on 20 July 2017.
Committee activity during the year The Committee met five times during the year and key agenda items included the following: October 2016 2017 Bonus arrangements 20172019 PRSP awards November 2016 2017 Bonus targets 2016 Bonus outcome CEO pay ratio Review of Directors expenses Executive Director and Executive Committee salary review National Living Wage outlook June 2017 Update on governance developments Review of Directors remuneration policy July 2017 Remuneration policy review September 2017 Remuneration policy review LTIP arrangements 78 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Advice to the Committee During the year, the Committee continued to receive advice from New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Plc.
NBS was appointed following a competitive tender in 2014.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice received is governed by 1 that Code.
Total fees payable in respect of remuneration advice to the Committee in the reporting year totalled 54,780.
Aon Plc provided advice on a potential insurance product, but no fees have been paid in respect of such advice in FY 2017.
Advice was also received from the Companys legal advisers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, on the operation of the Companys employee share schemes and on corporate governance matters.
Clifford Chance LLP also provided advice in relation to pension schemes.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from its advisers was objective and independent.
Members of management including Susan Martindale, the Group HR Director and Craig Provett, the Director of Compensation & Benefits, are invited to attend meetings on remuneration matters where appropriate.
They are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration arrangements are decided.
The Company Chairman does not attend Board or Committee meetings when his remuneration is under review.
Phil Urban and Tim Jones were present at meetings where the Companys long and short-term incentive arrangements and share schemes were discussed.
However, each declared an interest in the matters under review.
20% VAT was paid on the advisers fees shown above.
Statement of voting at AGM At the last AGM held on 24 January 2017, the resolution on the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: a b Votes cast Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld Annual report on remuneration 357,469,741 357,130,786 99.91 338,955 0.09 4,987,454 a.
The For vote includes those giving the Company Chairman discretion.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
Pay outcomes The tables and related disclosures set out on pages 79 to 83 on Directors remuneration, deferred annual bonus share awards STDIP, PRSP share options, Share Incentive Plan and pension benefits have been audited by Deloitte LLP.
Directors remuneration The tables set out the single figure remuneration received by the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors during the reporting year.
Figures shown for 2017 are on a 53 week basis.
Details of performance under the annual bonus plan are set out on pages 80 and 81.
Taxable benefits for the year comprised car allowance, healthcare, taxable expenses and the award of free shares under the all-employee SIP to Tim Jones as set out on page 82. b.
Based on the value of supplements paid in lieu of contributions to the Company Scheme.
c. The base salary for Phil Urban is 510,000 and for Tim Jones 426,500.
The figures set out are the actual salaries received over the financial year, which had 371 days.
d. Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors include cash payments made or accounted for by the Company relating to the reimbursement of expenses and the value of personal tax on those expenses.
e. This amount includes the additional fee approved by the Board and paid in respect of the work carried out by Mr Rutherford in leading the Companys discussions with the trustee of the Companys two defined benefit schemes which resulted in the agreement of the 2016 triennial valuations of those schemes as described more fully on page 43 of the Annual Report.
f. Josh Levy joined the Board on 13 November 2015. g. Dave Coplin joined the Board on 29 February 2016. h. Keith Browne joined the Board on 22 September 2016. i. Douglas McMahon stepped down from the Board on 13 November 2015.
Annual performance bonus and STDIP The annual bonus and STDIP operate as set out in the policy section of this report.
Details of the measures and targets applying to the 2017 plan are set out below: Threshold 95% of Target 99% of Target Target Maximum 105% of Target Performance measures % of salary payable % of salary payable % of salary payable % of salary payable Adjusted Operating Profit 310m 323m 326m 342m 75% 0% 10% 30% 75% Threshold Target Maximum % of salary payable % of salary payable % of salary payable Guest Service: NPS average % 51 52 53 score over the year 25% 6.25% 12.5% 25% Payout is on a straight-line basis between points.
Operating profit In determining the Operating Profit target range the Committee took into consideration a range of factors, such as the general economic and market outlook, an assessment of the significant future cost headwinds facing the business and internal plans.
These cost headwinds included increases to national living wage, an increase in business rates, the impact of the depreciation of sterling following the result of the referendum on the UKs membership of the European Union on food and drink costs, the in-year cost of the capital plan and the planned mitigating actions.
Target was set broadly in line with the 2016 out-turn and market consensus, with an award towards the maximum level requiring significant outperformance over and above the Companys business plan.
The Group delivered Operating Profit of 314m which was above the threshold level of performance required for bonus to begin accruing under this element and has resulted in a pay-out of 3% of base salary.
The Operating Profit outcome reflected strong sales performance over the year with total sales increasing by 94m to 2,180m.
Like-for-like sales growth of 1.8% consistently outperformed the market with noticeable improvements across almost our entire brand portfolio.
The actions taken under each of our strategic priorities have not only seen a return to sustained sales growth but have also enabled a significant proportion of the cost headwinds to be mitigated, and as a result the fall in Operating Profit was limited to 10m in the year on a 52 week basis, a credible performance in the circumstances.
Guest Health NPS was the lead measure of Guest Health in 2017 with progress against other guest metrics such as Trip Advisor and complaints also taken into consideration to ensure a rounded and more comprehensive assessment.
80 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 The NPS targets were set at the start of the financial year and were based on a new survey that included a more robust method of collecting data and therefore result validity.
The old survey required team members to encourage guests to leave feedback at the end of their visit.
The new survey solicits feedback from guests in several ways, for example via e-mail after booking on line or through one of our brand apps.
This means that surveys are more likely to be completed away from the business and after a period of time has elapsed, which can impact how the survey is answered.
It also means that significantly more surveys are completed: each week c. 25,000 guests are invited to leave feedback.
At the point the targets were set, the new survey had been in place for a relatively short period and therefore historic data was limited.
The 51 to 53 target range set by the Committee was stretching based on this historic data and insights from the data provider.
The actual achievement for the year was a score of 59 and therefore significantly ahead of the maximum target set.
With the benefit now of a years worth of data, the Committee looked carefully at the original targets and the significant degree of outperformance achieved.
Therefore, the Committee viewed as particularly important a more comprehensive review of Guest Health measures whilst acknowledging a substantial year-on-year improvement in NPS has been delivered.
The progress made in overall Guest Health is demonstrated by an improvement in TripAdvisor scores from 3.5 in 2016 to 3.7 by the end of 2017 and a 37 point increase in TripAdvisor response rates, an increase of over 70,000 responses, and a 7% reduction in the number of complaints received.
During the year the Company has also reviewed its approach to the measurement of guest satisfaction, recognising that Guests are increasingly choosing to provide feedback via other channels and in particular social media.
To this end, a new social media monitoring tool has been introduced which enables all social media reviews, including TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, to be combined into a single review score, and now over 80% of reviews are responded to directly by pub and restaurant management teams.
The Committee believes the bonus outcome under the Guest Health element reflects the NPS outcome, when considered alongside the good progress made in other measures of Guest Health.
As a result, bonus payments equivalent to 28% of base salary are due to be paid to Executive Directors 145,546 in respect of Phil Urban and 121,717 in respect of Tim Jones.
In line with our policy, half of the bonus award will be deferred into shares under the STDIP, which will be released in two equal amounts after 12 and 24 months, and shares must be retained until the relevant shareholding guideline has been met.
Long-term incentives vesting during the year During FY 2015 awards were made to Tim Jones and the former CEO, Alistair Darby, under the terms of the PRSP to the value of 140% and 200% of their respective base salaries.
The performance condition had two independent elements: compound annual adjusted EPS growth and TSR performance against a group of sector peers, measured over the three year performance period ending 30 September 2017.
The table below summarises performance against each element of the performance condition.
2015-2017 PRSP performance conditions Target Actual % vesting Total Shareholder Return relative to peer group Median to upper quartile Below median Nil Compound annual adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS growth 8% to 16% CAGR 2.3%p.
a. Nil Comprising the constituents of the FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure index.
Between threshold and maximum, vesting under each measure is on a straight-line basis.
Below threshold the award will lapse.
As TSR performance fell below the median performance of the comparator group and EPS fell below the threshold level of growth required, the FY 2015 plan awards will lapse in full.
Long-term incentive awards made in FY 2017 An award was made to the Chief Executive and Finance Director in November 2016 in accordance with the rules of the PRSP and within the approved Directors remuneration policy.
The independent elements of the performance measure for this award, each of which accounts for 50% of the award, are summarised below: Threshold vesting target Maximum vesting target 1.
Compound annual adjusted Earnings 25% will vest if the compound annual EPS 100% will vest if compound annual EPS growth Per Share EPS growth measured growth is 4%.
before separately disclosed items and other adjustments.
Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to 25% will vest for TSR performance equivalent 100% will vest for TSR performance equivalent a peer group of comparator companies.
to the median of the comparator group.
to the upper quartile of the comparator group.
Comprises the constituents of the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure group.
The EPS and TSR conditions are measured over three years from the start of the financial year in which they are granted, i. e. the three financial years from 25 September 2016, ending in September 2019.
As set out in last years report, the EPS target range has a threshold level of performance set at 4% growth p. a. and maximum set at 8% growth p. a.
The Committee believed that this target range was demanding in the context of the earnings forecast at the time of the award, given the significant cost challenges the business faced.
The TSR element of the award is also subject to a share price underpin and awards may only be exercised where the Mitchells & Butlers share price has equalled or exceeded the share price at the date of award within six months of the vesting date.
If this condition is not met, then the TSR-related awards will lapse.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 81 Report on Directors remuneration continued Performance measurement under the PRSP, which is not re-tested, is reviewed and certified by the Companys auditor.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the PRSP are set out below.
Market Options Basis price per awarded of award share used to Actual during the % of Basic determine the planned Latest Face year to Annual Award award vesting lapse value 30 09 17 Salary date p date date Executive Directors Phil Urban 397,970 200 24 11 16 256.3 Nov 19 Nov 21 979,404 Tim Jones 232,968 140 24 11 16 256.3 Nov 19 Nov 21 573,334 Total 630,938 Face value is the maximum number of shares that would vest excluding any dividend shares that may accrue if the performance measure as described above is met in full, multiplied by the middle market quotation of a Mitchells & Butlers share on the day the award was made 246.1p.
The aggregate option price of each award is 1.
All-employee SIP and Sharesave The table below shows the awards made to Directors under the free share element of the SIP during the year.
No awards were made to Directors under the Sharesave plan during FY 2017.
SIP Shares awarded Market price during Market price per share the year per share Normal at normal Lapsed 25 09 16 to Award at award vesting vesting date during 30 09 17 date p date p period Director Phil Urban 1,551 21 6 17 232 21 6 20 n a n a Tim Jones 1,322 21 6 17 232 21 6 20 n a n a Total 2,873 Directors entitlements under the Partnership Share element of the SIP are set out as part of the Directors interests table on page 83.
PRSP, STDIP and other share awards The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors outstanding awards under the PRSP, STDIP and Sharesave SAYE.
50% of the PRSP award is subject to a TSR condition and the other 50% is subject to adjusted EPS growth targets.
Shares awarded to Phil Urban on joining the Company as Chief Operating Officer in January 2015. c. The 2015-17 plan will lapse in November 2017.
82 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Update on forecast performance of other PRSP awards 2016-2018 PRSP Based on current earnings forecasts and TSR performance to the end of FY 2017, the Committee does not anticipate that there will be any vesting at the end of the 2018 financial year.
2017-2019 PRSP With two performance years remaining, the position could change but specifically in relation to the EPS measure, the significant additional cost challenges and a more detailed assessment of the timing and impact of investment, result in a forecast level of vesting below the threshold level.
Directors interests Executive Directors are expected to hold Mitchells & Butlers shares in line with the shareholding guideline set out in the Remuneration Policy report.
The proposed remuneration policy has a share ownership guideline that requires the Chief Executive to accumulate Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of salary 150% of salary for other Executive Directors through the retention of shares arising from share schemes on a net of tax basis or through market purchases.
Phil Urbans shareholding at 30 September 2017 was 24.9% of his basic annual salary and Tim Joness shareholding was 45.2% of his basic annual salary.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 30 September 2017 and at 24 September 2016 are as set out below: Unvested options Unvested options Wholly owned shares Shares with awards without awards with Vested but without performance performance performance performance unexercised Total a b c conditions conditions conditions conditions options shares options 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Executive Directors Phil Urban 53,042 31,306 4,972 4,972 840,730 442,760 898,744 479,038 Tim Jones 80,461 76,518 2,486 5,229 617,872 529,066 700,819 610,813 NonExecutive Directors Bob Ivell 12,006 12,006 12,006 12,006 Ron Robson Stewart Gilliland 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Eddie Irwin 30,974 30,000 30,974 30,000 Colin Rutherford Imelda Walsh 7,500 7,500 7,500 7,500 Dave Coplin 2,000 2,000 Josh Levy Keith Browne Total 196,983 168,330 7,458 10,201 1,458,602 971,826 1,663,043 1,150,357 a.
Includes Free Shares and Partnership Shares granted under the SIP.
Options granted under the Sharesave as detailed in the table on page 82 and deferred bonus awards granted under the STDIP.
c. Options granted under the PRSP as detailed in the table on page 82.
Directors shareholdings shares without performance conditions include shares held by persons closely associated.
The above shareholdings are beneficial interests and are inclusive of Directors holdings under the Share Incentive Plan both Free Share and Partnership Share elements.
Tim Jones acquired 110 shares under the Partnership Share element of the Share Incentive Plan between the end of the financial year and 22 November 2017.
There have been no changes in the holdings of any other Directors since the end of the financial year.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary or in debenture stocks of the Company or any subsidiary.
The market price per share on 30 September 2017 was 252.0p and the range during the year to 30 September 2017 was 221.0p to 287.8p per share.
The Executive Directors as a group beneficially own 0.03% of the Companys shares.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 83 Report on Directors remuneration continued Fees for external directorships No external Non-Executive directorships were held by either Executive Director during the year to 30 September 2017.
Payment for loss of office No payments for loss of office were made in the year ending 30 September 2017.
Payments to past Directors No payments were made to any past Directors in the year ending 30 September 2017.
TSR performance graph The Companys TSR performance for the last eight financial years is shown below against the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure index.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen to show TSR performance as the Company is a member of the FTSE 250.
The FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure index is shown as this is the TSR comparator group used for the long-term incentive plan.
Total shareholder return from September 2009 to September 2017 rebased to 100 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mitchells & Butlers plc FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2017, of 100 invested in Mitchells & Butlers plc on 26 September 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure Indices on the same date.
84 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 CEO earnings history Year ended 25 09 10 24 09 11 29 09 12 28 09 13 27 09 14 26 09 15 24 09 16 30 09 17 Phil Urban Single figure remuneration 000 613 770 Annual bonus outcome % of max 28 LTIP vesting outcome % of max Alistair Darby a Single figure remuneration 000 982 642 878 Annual bonus outcome % of max 71.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a 19.0 Bob Ivell b Single figure remuneration 000 557 69 c c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a n a c c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a Jeremy Blood Single figure remuneration 000 397 50 d c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a Adam Fowle e Single figure remuneration 000 1,315 483 Annual bonus outcome % of max 87.6 16.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max 16.2 24.2 a. Alistair Darby formally took up the position of CEO on 12 November 2012 following a short period of induction and handover.
The figure shown reflects the date of his appointment to the Board 8 October 2012. b.
Figure shown is up to and including 11 November 2012 as Bob Ivell remained Executive Chairman to this date.
c. The Director was not a participant in the plan.
d. Jeremy Blood was not a participant in the short-term incentive plan: at the discretion of the Board a payment of 100,000 was made in respect of his contribution as Interim Chief Executive.
This payment is included in the single remuneration figure 397,000 above.
Earnings exclude the fee payable for the period 26 September 2010 to 14 March 2011 during which Mr Blood served as a Non-Executive Director.
e. Earnings disclosed are to 15 March 2011 when Mr Fowle stepped down as CEO.
Change in remuneration of the CEO Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 2017 2016 % Change 2017 2016 % Change 2017 2016 % Change CEO 510,000 510,000 0 15,134 15,098 0.2 145,546 Salaried employees 31,572 31,763 -0.6 704 725 -2.9 2,739 2,525 8.5 The change in CEO remuneration is compared to the change in average remuneration of all full time salaried employees, which includes house managers, assistant managers and kitchen managers employed in our businesses.
Salaried employees with part-year service in either FY 2016 or FY 2017 have been excluded from the comparison figures.
Retail staff employees have been excluded from the comparator group as they are hourly paid, largely part time and do not participate in any bonus plans.
The CEO figures do not include LTIP awards or pension benefits that are disclosed in the single figure table.
CEO pay ratios Last year the Committee decided to include the pay ratio between the CEO and the median pay of other employees, reflecting emerging best practice.
Since then the Government has responded to its consultation on corporate governance and will seek to introduce secondary legislation that will require quoted companies to publish the ratio of their CEOs pay to that of the workforce.
The Committee awaits the Governments precise method of calculation.
However, given our decision to publish a ratio last year and using the same approach, based on the CEO single figure set out on page 79, the ratio of pay to the median of all other employees is 1:63 2016 1:44.
The increase in the ratio between the pay of the CEO and other employees largely reflects the annual bonus payable to the CEO in 2017: in 2016 no bonus was paid.
Although wages and salaries have increased for all employee groups, overall earnings have fallen, as a result of fewer hours being worked on average each week, as the Company improves scheduling efficiency across all sites.
In assessing our pay ratio versus likely ratios from industry peers, we believe that we are towards the lower end of the range but note that annual and long-term incentive payments have varied considerably amongst this group.
In our case, the CEO single figure comprises fixed pay and bonus only given that no long-term incentive vested in respect of performance ending in FY 2017.
We also recognise that ratios will be influenced by levels of employee pay, and in the hospitality sector, despite significant increases over the past year, employee pay will be lower than in many other sectors of the economy.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 85 Report on Directors remuneration continued Employee pay includes base salary, incentive payments, employers pension contributions and benefits.
Employees with part-year service have been excluded from the comparison figures.
Employee pay does not include earnings from tips and service charge, from which many employees benefit.
It is Mitchells and Butlers policy to pass all earnings from tips and service charge on to employees in full.
In addition to the elements of pay included in the above pay ratio calculation the Company also invests in employees in other ways.
Our employees are fundamental to the delivery of great guest experiences and therefore a truly engaged workforce is important.
For over a decade, Mitchells and Butlers has sought the views of employees though our annual Your Say employee engagement survey.
What this survey consistently tells us is that whilst pay is a very important element of the overall employee proposition, there are other factors that are also important to our employees.
The opportunity to learn and develop is one of these and the Company has invested heavily in this area in the past year.
Over 1,250 employees are now undertaking an apprenticeship with us, over a number of programmes, from guest service to culinary skills through to management.
Underpinning all of our learning and development activity is the new learning system introduced during the year, which provides an innovative and interactive way for employees to learn and develop, both on job and on-line, in a way that is convenient and flexible.
Another important factor is employee recognition, which can take many forms, and the Company supports employees in a number of ways, such as our recognition programme which allows managers to reward great performance in the moment and also service milestones, from one year of service upwards.
In addition, all employees can benefit from a generous employee discount and become shareholders through our Share Incentive Plans.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 700 8.3% 600 500 400 625 577 300 4.2% 7.7% 200 198 190 -6.1% 167 155 100 -61.3% 46 49 12 31 0 Wages and salaries Principal taxes Pension deficit contributions Debt service Cash Dividend and Share Buy Back FY 2017 FY 2016 From note 2.3, Accounts, excludes share-based payments.
Business Rates, Corporation Tax, Employers NI.
Figures shown for wages and salaries consist of all earnings, including bonus.
In FY 2017, 2m 0.3% was paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors 2016 2.1m 0.36%.
The increase in wages and salaries is primarily a result of NMW and NLW.
Details of service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the service contracts of Executive Directors are set out below.
Notice period Minimum notice Compensation on Director Contract start date Unexpired term from Company period from Director change of control a Phil Urban 27 09 15 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No Tim Jones 18 10 10 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No a. Phil Urban became Chief Executive and joined the Board on 27 September 2015.
His continuous service date started on 5 January 2015, the date on which he joined the Company as Chief Operating Officer.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Chairman, do not have service contracts but serve under letters of appointment which provide that they are initially appointed until the next AGM when they are required to stand for election.
In line with the Companys Articles, all Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, will stand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
This is also in line with the recommendations set out in paragraph B.
Copies of both the individual letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, and the service contracts for Executive Directors are available at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours and on our website.
Copies will also be available to shareholders to view at the 2018 AGM.
86 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 TO 139 OTHER INFORMATION 140 TO 144 Implementation of Remuneration Policy in FY 2018 Executive Directors salary review No salary increase will apply for any Executive Director.
Phil Urbans salary has not increased since his appointment in September 2015 and Tim Jones salary was last increased in January 2015.
Annual performance bonus The maximum bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director with 70% of bonus to be based on Operating Profit and the remaining 30% on non-profit elements linked to the business scorecard.
Weighting Details Operating Profit 70% Bonus will begin to accrue at threshold with half of the bonus payable for on-target performance, reflecting the demanding nature of the targets set by the Committee.
Full payment would require very strong performance, well in excess of current market consensus.
Guest Health 15% Guest Health will comprise three measures, each with an equal weighting: NPS a well-established measure of Guest Health, will continue to be assessed in FY 2018.
Social media The social media monitoring tool, introduced in 2017 enables all social media reviews, including TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, to be combined into a single review score.
Guest complaints There has been an increased focus on improving the speed at which guest complaints are resolved, alongside a commitment to reducing the overall number of complaints received.
Therefore, an assessment of guest complaints will be included in assessing Guest Health.
Combining NPS with an assessment of social media reviews and guest complaints provides a more holistic review of Guest Health.
To achieve a maximum payment, performance will need to exceed target on at least two elements, and be at target or better, for the third element.
Employee engagement 10% Mitchells & Butlers has measured employee engagement for a number of years, and a clear correlation has been established between employee engagement and guest satisfaction, which in turn has a positive impact on sales.
For this reason, the Committee has decided to include employee engagement in the bonus scheme.
Safety 5% Food safety will always be a key priority and including a measure based on the proportion of our businesses that achieve a high National Food Hygiene Rating reflects our continued focus on the safe operation of our businesses.
An agreed food safety score must be achieved for this part of the bonus to pay out and, as an additional check, overall workplace safety will also be taken into account when determining the outcome.
The non-profit elements will only become payable if a certain level of Operating Profit has been achieved.
For 2018, this has been increased to 97.5% of target which is ahead of the threshold required for payment under the Operating Profit measure.
More broadly, the Committee will continue to consider the overall performance of the Company, not just the outcome of each individual measure.
All bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance.
However, retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Directors remuneration report.
The bonus structure for all Managers across Mitchells & Butlers is linked to the above business scorecard.
Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP PRSP awards with a face value of 200% and 140% of base salary will be made to the Chief Executive and Finance Director respectively.
The measures and targets for the award to be made for the 2018-20 cycle are still being determined as set out in the Chairs statement at the beginning of this report.
Measures and targets will be subject to consultation with major shareholders and will be disclosed in full at the time of grant.
Reflecting good practice in this area, a two-year post-vesting holding period will be introduced for the PRSP awards to be made in 2018 and for all future long-term incentive awards, thereby strengthening alignment between executives and shareholders.
Share ownership guideline The guideline has been increased to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the Finance Director.
Consistent with the previous policy, Directors will be required to retain all vested shares net of tax until the share ownership guideline is met.
Non-Executive Directors fee review There will be no change to the Chairman and Non-Executive Director fee levels in 2018.
Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee 22 November 2017 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 87 F INANCIAL ST ATEMENTS In this section 89 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc 96 Group income statement 97 Group statement of comprehensive income 98 Group balance sheet 99 Group statement of changes in equity 100 Group cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements 101 Section 1 Basis of preparation 104 Section 2 Results for the year 104 2.1 Segmental analysis 105 2.2 Separately disclosed forms 106 2.3 Revenue and operating costs 108 2.4 Taxation 110 2.5 Earnings per share 111 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 111 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 115 3.2 Working capital 115 3.3 Provisions 116 3.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets 118 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs 118 4.1 Net debt 118 4.2 Borrowings 120 4.3 Finance costs and revenue 120 4.4 Financial instruments 126 4.5 Pensions 129 4.6 Share-based payments 131 4.7 Equity 133 Section 5 Other notes 133 5.1 Related party transactions 133 5.2 Subsidiaries 134 5.3 Five year review 135 Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 137 Notes to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 88 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017
