SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the revised Directors remuneration policy as determined by the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
In accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, a binding shareholder resolution to approve this policy will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in February 2018 the 2018 AGM.
The policy will apply to payments made to Directors after the 2018 AGM, subject to shareholder approval of the policy.
A copy of the first shareholder-approved policy is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 which is available at www.
The only change proposed under the revised Policy is that the maximum pension contribution or cash in lieu of pension for newly appointed Executive Directors is reduced from 35% to 20% of salary.
Key principles of remuneration policy The remuneration policy for the Directors of the Company is intended to help recruit and retain executives who can execute SSPs strategy by rewarding them with appropriate compensation and benefit packages.
The policy seeks to align the interests of Executive Directors with the performance of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Our incentive arrangements are designed to reward performance against key financial and strategic performance objectives.
Our aim is to reward management for delivering sustainable long-term performance and support the retention of critical talent.
Future policy table The table below describes the policy in relation to the components of remuneration for Executive Directors and, at the bottom of the table, the policy for the Non-Executive Directors.
Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive Directors Base salary A core element of the Normally reviewed annually.
The Remuneration Salary increases in percentage None remuneration package used Committee may however award an out-of-cycle terms will normally be in line to recruit, reward and retain increase if it considers it appropriate.
with increases awarded to other Executive Directors who can head office employees in the Base salaries are set by the Committee taking into deliver our strategic objectives.
relevant geography, but may be account a number of internal and external factors higher in certain circumstances.
including: The circumstances may include the individuals skills, experience and performance: but are not limited to: the size and scope of the Executive Directors role Where a new Executive and responsibilities: Director has been appointed market positioning and inflation: and at a lower salary, higher pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
increases may be awarded over an initial period as the Executive Director gains experience in the role: Where there has been an increase in the scope or responsibility of an Executive Directors role: and Where a salary has fallen significantly below market positioning.
There is no maximum increase or opportunity.
Pension To provide an income following The Company operates an approved defined Company contributions or cash None retirement and assist the contribution pension arrangement, to which the allowance of up to 35% of base Executive Director in building Company may make contributions.
A cash allowance salary may be paid in respect wealth for their future.
may be provided in lieu of pension contributions.
of each financial year of the Company to each of the current Executive Directors.
Company contributions or cash allowance of up to 20% of base salary may be paid in respect of each financial year of the Company to any new Executive Director that may be appointed from time to time.
45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Other benefits Each Executive Director receives a tailored benefits Car allowance of up to 13,000 None To provide appropriate benefits as part of a remuneration package including but not limited to private per annum.
package that assists in health insurance for themselves, their spouse The cost of insured benefits recruiting, rewarding and and dependent children, annual health screening, may vary from year to year retaining Executive Directors.
smartphone or similar devices, life assurance, depending on the individuals business travel and permanent health insurance.
circumstances, and therefore Travel benefits, including car allowance, company car, the Committee has not imposed driver, the cost of fuel for private mileage, insurance, any overall maximum value on maintenance and servicing and travel to and from the benefit.
work including any associated tax and social security charges may also be provided.
In the event that an Executive Director is required by the Group to relocate, other benefits may include, but are not limited to, the costs of relocation, housing, travel and education allowances and subsistence costs.
Expenses incurred in the performance of duties for the Group may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax or social security charges due on the expenses.
The Executive Directors are eligible to receive other benefits such as a colleague discount card on the same terms as other eligible employees of the Group.
Annual bonus To reward performance on an Performance objectives will be determined by the The maximum annual bonus Performance is measured annual basis against key annual Committee at the beginning of the financial year.
opportunity is 200% of base relative to targets in key objectives.
financial, operational and The Committee will assess performance against or strategic objectives over these objectives following the end of the relevant For 2017 18 maximum annual the financial year.
opportunities are: The measures selected and Awards are delivered wholly in cash, and are paid once Chief Executive Officer, Kate their weightings may vary the results for the year have been audited.
Swann 200% of salary per each year according to the annum.
The Committee may clawback awards up to three strategic priorities.
years after vesting if the Groups accounts have been Chief Financial Officer, Entitlement to bonus materially misstated or there has been an error in Jonathan Davies 125% of only starts to accrue at a the calculation of any performance conditions which salary per annum.
minimum threshold level of results in overpayment.
Below this level, no bonus will be paid.
To earn a maximum bonus there must be outperformance against stretching objectives.
46 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Element and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP rewards the delivery Awards may be made to Executive Directors at the The maximum award that may It is currently anticipated of Company performance and discretion of the Committee in the form of conditional be made is up to 200% of salary that for PSP awards shareholder value over the share awards, nil-cost options, forfeitable shares or per annum under the rules performance will be based longer term.
of the plan in respect of any on: financial year of the Company.
25% on relative Total The awards are share based to Awards will normally be subject to performance align the interests of Executive conditions set by the Committee measured over Shareholder Return TSR Directors with those of a period of at least three years.
Awards will vest 75% on Earnings per shareholders.
following the end of the performance period.
Share EPS Awards other than forfeitable shares may If the minimum level incorporate the right to receive in cash or shares of performance is not the value of dividends that would have been paid on achieved then none of the the award shares that vest between the grant and award will vest and the vesting of awards, which will, unless the Committee award will lapse.
determines otherwise, assume the reinvestment For performance at the of those dividends in the Companys shares on a threshold levels 25% of the cumulative basis.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce the The whole award will vest number of shares subject to unvested awards if prior if the maximum level of to vesting there is a material misstatement in the performance, or above, is Companys annual financial statements, or a material achieved.
failure of risk management, or serious reputational Long-term incentive damage to a member of the Group or relevant performance conditions business unit.
are reviewed on an annual The Committee may clawback awards up to three basis, and may vary to years after vesting if the Groups accounts have been ensure that they are materially misstated or there has been an error in aligned with the corporate the calculation of any performance conditions which strategy.
The Committee would seek to consult with its major shareholders as appropriate on any proposed material changes.
Executive Directors may participate on the same Participants can contribute up None All-employee share plans basis as other employees.
to the relevant limits set out in the country plan.
Non-Executive Directors Fees To attract and retain NonThe Chairmans fees are determined by the Committee.
None Executive Directors of the The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by calibre required to oversee the the Board.
development and execution of The total fees for Non-Executive Directors, including the Companys strategy.
the Chairman, will not exceed the maximum stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
The level of fees takes into account the time commitment, responsibilities, market levels and the skills and experience required.
Non-Executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specific Board responsibilities, including chairmanship or membership of Board committees or acting as the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors on a per diem basis to reflect increased time commitment in certain limited circumstances.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax and social security due on the expenses.
Non-Executive Directors may be provided with benefits to enable them to undertake their duties.
47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Notes to the tables on pages 45 to 47 The Company also operates a shareholding policy details can be found on page 40 of the Annual report on remuneration.
The PSP will be operated in accordance with the plan rules.
In accordance with the rules of the PSP, any performance condition may be substituted or varied if the Committee considers it appropriate, provided that the amended performance condition is in its opinion reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The plan rules also provide that the Committee may adjust awards as it reasonably considers appropriate in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, capital distribution, demerger, special dividend or other event having a material impact on the value of shares.
Malus and clawbacks apply where stated in the above table.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery provisions.
Under Kate Swanns service contract, if her employment is terminated by the Company making a payment in lieu of notice and the Company subsequently discovers that there were grounds for her summary dismissal, Kate Swann may be required to make a repayment equal to the net of tax value of any payments, benefits or shares received under any relevant bonus or incentive plan.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments that are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the AGM on 3 March 2015 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
Performance measures and targets Annual bonus Annual bonus metrics and targets are selected to incentivise Directors to meet objectives for the year and are chosen in line with the following principles: The targets set for financial measures should be incentivising and appropriately stretching.
Targets may be adjusted by the Committee to take into account significant capital transactions during the year.
There should be flexibility to change the measures and weightings year-on-year in line with the needs of the business.
PSP Performance conditions and targets are determined by the Committee to reflect the Groups strategy and having regard to market practice within the Companys business sector.
For the awards to be made in November 2017, the measures were selected taking into account that: Earnings per Share is considered by the Company to be the best indicator of long-term performance.
Total Shareholder Return is a key objective of most of our shareholders.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Differences in the policies for Executive Directors and other employees in the Group generally reflect differences in market practice taking into account role and seniority.
The remuneration policies for Executive Directors and the senior executive team are generally consistent in terms of structure and the performance measures used.
All eligible employees may participate in the Companys all-employee share plans in the relevant territory where they operate.
Illustrative scenario analysis The following charts show the potential split between the different elements of the Executive Directors remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum see table on top of page 49.
CEO: Kate Swann CFO: Jonathan Davies, k, k. Long-term incentives Long-term incentives, k k Annual bonus Annual bonus.
Fixed pay Fixed pay k, k. Minimum Target Minimum Target Maximum Maximum 48 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Component Minimum Target Maximum Fixed remuneration Base salary Annual base salary for the 2018 financial year Pension Chief Executive Officer: 35% of salary: Chief Financial Officer: 21% of salary Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided in the year ended 30 September 2017 Annual bonus Maximum opportunity Chief Executive Officer: 200% of salary: Chief Financial Officer: 125% of salary Vesting 0% of maximum 50% of maximum 100% of maximum opportunity opportunity opportunity Performance share plan Maximum opportunity Chief Executive Officer: 200% of salary: Chief Financial Officer: 125% of salary Vesting 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting Excludes share price and growth dividends.
Based on salary as at 1 October 2017.
Approach to recruitment remuneration In the event that the Group appointed a new Executive Director, remuneration would be determined in line with the following principles: The Committee will take into account all relevant factors, including the calibre and experience of the individual and the market from which they are recruited, while being mindful of the best interests of the Group and its shareholders and seeking not to pay more than is necessary.
So far as practical the Committee will look to align the remuneration package for any new appointment with the remuneration policy set out in the table on pages 45 to 47.
Salaries may be higher or lower than the previous incumbent, but will be set taking into account the review principles set out in the policy table.
Where appropriate the salaries may be set at an initially lower level, with the intention of increasing salary at a higher than usual rate as the Executive Director gains experience in the role.
For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than salary for example: a Non-Executive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis.
To facilitate recruitment the Committee may need to buy out terms or remuneration arrangements forfeited on joining the Company.
Any buy-out would take into account the terms of the arrangements, in particular, any performance conditions and the time over which they would vest.
The overriding principle would be that the value of any replacement buy-out awards should be no more than the commercial value of awards that have been forfeited.
The form of any award would be determined at the time and the Committee may make buy-out awards under LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules for buy-out awards only.
The maximum variable pay opportunity in respect of recruitment excluding buy-outs comprises a maximum annual bonus of 200% of annual salary and a maximum PSP grant of 200% of annual salary, as stated in the policy table on pages 45 to 47.
The Committee retains the flexibility to determine that, for the first year of appointment, any annual incentive award within this maximum will be subject to such terms as it may determine.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation for example, merger with another company, the normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
Where the recruitment requires relocation of the individual, the Committee may provide for additional costs and benefits.
On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the remuneration package will be consistent with the policy set out above.
Details of Directors service contracts Executive Directors Executive Directors have rolling service contracts.
None of the existing service contracts for Executive Directors makes any provision for termination payments, other than for payment in lieu of notice.
Kate Swanns payment in lieu of notice would be calculated by reference to the base salary and pension contributions or equivalent allowance in respect of any unexpired portion of the notice period.
This payment can be made in instalments over the notice period and can be reduced where alternative employment is commenced during the notice period.
Any such payment to Kate Swann would be repayable net of tax if it was subsequently discovered that the Company would have been permitted to dismiss her summarily.
Jonathan Davies payment in lieu of notice would be calculated by reference to the base salary in respect of any unexpired portion of the notice period.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions relating to salary, car allowance, pension arrangements, medical insurance, life insurance, business travel insurance, company car, holiday and sick pay, and the reimbursement of reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Executive Directors while on company business.
Kate Swanns service contract includes the provision that she is entitled to participate in the annual bonus scheme.
For any new Executive Directors appointed their participation in the Companys incentive plans will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED The following service contracts in respect of Executive Directors who were in office during the year are rolling service contracts and therefore have no end date: Date of commencement of contract Notice period for Director Notice period for Company Kate Swann 15 July 2014 9 months 12 months Jonathan Davies 15 July 2014 9 months 12 months Service contracts for new Executive Directors will be limited to nine months notice for the Director and 12 months notice for the Company.
Chairman The terms of the Chairmans appointment broadly reflect the terms of the three-year appointments of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairmans appointment can be terminated at any time upon written notice, resignation or in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
The Chairman receives no benefits from the office other than fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties, including any tax due on the expenses.
He is not eligible to participate in Group pension arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have been appointed on an initial term of three years, subject to renewal thereafter.
All are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which can be terminated at any time upon written notice, resignation or in accordance with the articles of association of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors receive no benefits from their office other than fees and reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of their duties, including any tax due on the expenses.
They are not eligible to participate in Group pension arrangements.
Effective date of appointment letter Current term expires Vagn Srensen 15 July 2014 14 July 2020 John Barton 15 July 2014 14 July 2020 Ian Dyson 15 July 2014 14 July 2020 Denis Hennequin 15 July 2014 14 July 2020 Per Utnegaard 1 July 2015 30 June 2018 Directors service contracts are kept for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Payments to departing Directors In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined by reference to the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Committee may structure any compensation payments in such a way as it deems appropriate, taking into account the circumstances of departure.
In the event of the Company terminating an Executive Directors contract, the level of compensation would be subject to mitigation if considered appropriate.
Payment in lieu of notice In the event of termination by the Company of an Executive Directors employment, a payment in lieu of notice may be paid.
This payment would be equal to a maximum of annual base salary and cash allowance in lieu of pension in respect of any unexpired portion of the notice period.
Annual bonus Executive Directors may, at the determination of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Any such bonus will be determined by the Committee, taking into account time in employment and performance.
Performance Share Plan On cessation of employment, any outstanding unvested awards will lapse unless the participant dies or is deemed to be awards a good leaver by the Committee in its discretion.
Where the participant is deemed to be a good leaver, any outstanding unvested awards will normally continue and will vest at the normal vesting date to the extent the original performance conditions have been satisfied.
Awards will normally, unless the Committee determines that an alternative proportion of the awards should vest, be pro-rated for the portion of the vesting period completed in employment.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, or if the participant dies, decide to allow awards to vest on cessation of employment subject to the Committees assessment of performance against the original performance conditions at that time or the Committees assessment of the likely achievement of the performance conditions over the original performance period.
Payments in relation to The Company may pay an amount considered reasonable by the Remuneration Committee in respect of an Executive statutory rights Directors statutory rights.
Payments required by law The Company may pay damages, awards, fines or other compensation awarded to an Executive Director by any competent court or tribunal or other payments required to be made on termination of employment under applicable law.
Professional fees The Company may pay an amount considered reasonable by the Remuneration Committee in respect of fees for legal and tax advice, and outplacement support for the departing Executive Director.
50 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Award under LR 9.4.
2 Were an award to be made under LR 9.4.
2 then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award.
Takeovers and other corporate events Under the PSP, on a takeover or voluntary winding-up of the Company, PSP awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Vesting would be determined by the Committee based on the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed and the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied, although the Committee has the discretion to determine that such greater proportion as it considers appropriate of the awards should vest, including where it considers the level of shareholder returns is at a superior level.
In the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, capital distribution or any other event having a material impact on the value of the shares, the Committee may determine that outstanding PSP awards shall vest on the same basis as set out above for a takeover.
Alternatively, the Committee may with the consent of the acquiring company decide that PSP awards will not vest on a corporate event but will be replaced by new awards over shares in the new acquiring company or another company determined by the acquiring company.
Bonuses may be paid in respect of the year in which the change of control or winding up of the Company occurs, if the Committee considers this appropriate.
The Committee may determine the level of bonus taking into account any factors it considers appropriate.
Amendments The Committee may make amendments to the terms of the Companys incentive plans in accordance with the rules of those plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Companys IPO prospectus.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax, administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
When reviewing and setting Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of Group employees.
The Group-wide pay review budget is one of the key factors when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors.
Although the Group has not carried out a formal employee consultation regarding Board remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee consulted with the Groups largest shareholders when developing the above policy.
In reviewing and setting remuneration, including that of Executive Directors, the Committee receives updates on investors views, and may from time to time engage directly with investors and or investor representative organisations on remuneration topics as appropriate.
These lines of communication ensure that emerging best practice principles are factored into the Committees decision-making.
