Directors Remuneration Report Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my report as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This report sets out Electras policy in relation to Directors remuneration, as approved by shareholders at the AGM in March 2017.
This policy, which is set out below on pages 91 to 97 currently remains in place.
However, as noted in the Chairmans Statement, the Committee is reviewing this policy in light of the outcome of the strategic review and intends to submit an updated policy for approval by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM on 1st March 2018.
Details of the proposed revised policy will be sent to shareholders with the notice of AGM in January 2018 and, if approved by shareholders, implemented with effect from 1st January 2018.
Changes to Company Structure Prior to the current year, Electra Private Equity PLC the Company did not employ any Executive Directors and, as an investment trust, the Board consisted of Non-Executive Directors only.
As a result, payments to Directors in 2015 16 comprised Non-Executive base fees and benefits only.
I reported last year on the Boards intentions to appoint one or more Executive Directors to the Board in 2017, as a result of the proposed changes to the corporate structure.
In preparation for this, the Committee recruited Gavin Manson as Chief Financial Officer in August 2016 and agreed a proposed Directors Remuneration Policy that was designed to ensure that Electra is capable of attracting, rewarding and retaining high calibre candidates for the newly created roles.
This is summarised below and set out in full on pages 91 to 97 of this report.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM in March 2017.
Following shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy, Gavin Manson was appointed as a Director with effect from 23rd March 2017.
Remuneration Policy As noted, a revised Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in March 2017.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure that pay is aligned with the long-term creation of value to shareholders as well as being in line with best practice within the industry.
In summary, our policy comprises: Base salary pensions and benefits are benchmarked against similar sized companies An Annual bonus based on financial and strategic performance measures with at least 50% of pay-outs deferred into shares for 3 years A Performance Share Plan measuring performance over 3 years with an additional 2 year holding period and Share ownership guidelines of 200% of salary Implementation of the Policy in 2016 17 For much of 2016 17, the Company was in a transitional stage as it assumed all operating responsibilities from Epiris.
This took effect from 1st June 2017.
As noted above, Gavin Manson was appointed as a Director with effect from 23rd March 2017.
Performance Measures for Annual Bonus Plan and Long-term Incentives As 2016 17 was a transitional year, the Committee selected annual bonus plan measures which would capture performance against our key objectives over this year while ensuring alignment with shareholders.
Since it was not possible to set traditional performance targets such as profit or portfolio-oriented measures the Committee determined that the 2016 17 bonus would be based on: 50% TSR 40% strategic objectives and 10% cost control Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review We have employed a mixture of financial and non-financial measures to reflect the Companys particular focus over the coming year.
The Committee has consulted with shareholders on the specific measures to be employed, to ensure a focus on shareholder value while appropriately incentivising executives to deliver the changes needed to position the Group for future growth.
The Committee believed that this would ensure a focus on shareholder value while incentivising the executives to deliver the changes needed in the year to position the Group for future growth.
The long-term incentive granted in 2016 17 were based on relative TSR verses the FTSE 250 Index.
The Committee agreed at its meeting on 1st December 2017 that Gavin Manson should receive a bonus of 299,687 in respect of 2016 17 of which 171,249 will be paid in cash and 128,438 deferred into shares for a period of 3 years.
The Committee proposes that the annual bonus plan measures for the year ending 30th September 2018 will be addressed following the Committees review of the Remuneration Policy.
Electra Private Equity PLC 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan the Long-Term Incentive Plan or LTIP In accordance with the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders, the Company has established a Long-Term Incentive Plan, the terms of which are set out on page 49.
On 14th July 2017, the Committee granted to Gavin Manson a nil cost option award under the LTIP in respect of 35,671 ordinary shares.
The award will ordinarily become exercisable 3 years from the date of grant, subject to continued service and to the extent to which the TSR performance condition is met, and may be exercised for a period of 10 years from the date of grant.
Gavin Manson is required to hold the shares for at least 24 months from the date of vesting.
Following the declaration of the third Special Dividend which was paid on 1st December 2017, the Committee agreed to adjust the award by increasing the number of ordinary shares within the award by a factor representing the proportionate increase in the awardholders holding which would have occurred if the special dividend had been invested in more shares on the first day on which the shares were traded ex-dividend.
This has resulted in the number of shares under the award being increased by 34,211 shares.
I believe that our proposed policy as set out in the Notice of AGM creates a strong alignment between our current and future executives and shareholders, and is relevant and aligned with market expectations for a company of this size.
I hope that you concur and that you will feel able to support our proposals at the 2018 AGM.
David Lis Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6th December 2017 90 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
