Governance 65 65 His prior knowledge of the diversity and Commitment Training and development complexity of the group is of significant The letters of appointment for the The Chairman has overall responsibility value to the board.
Although the audit Chairman and the non-executive directors for ensuring that the directors receive relationship between the Company and set out the expected time commitment suitable training to enable them to carry KPMG and the employment relationship required of them and are available out their duties and is supported in this between Richard Reid and KPMG ended for inspection by any person during by the Company Secretary.
Directors are within the last three years, the board normal business hours at the Companys also encouraged personally to identify concluded and is satisfied that, on the registered office and at the AGM.
any additional training requirements that basis of the facts outlined above, the Other significant commitments of the would assist them in carrying out their former KPMG relationship does not Chairman and non-executive directors role.
Training is provided in briefing in any way compromise Richards are disclosed on appointment and papers, such as the regular update from independence.
the Company Secretary as part of the board pack ahead of each meeting The Code requires that, if a director Board development covering developments in legal, has served on the board for more than The Chairman, with the support of the regulatory and governance matters, and nine years, the board should state its Company Secretary, is responsible for by way of presentations and meetings reasons why it considers the director, the induction of new directors and the with senior executives or other external notwithstanding his or her length of continuing development of directors.
During the year, this included service, to be independent.
Accordingly, Board induction a briefing and update on the groups the board has considered the The Company provides all non-executive anti-bribery and corruption policies independence of Javier Ferrn who, as at directors with a tailored and thorough and procedures.
1 November 2017, had served 11 years programme of induction, which is as a director of the Company.
Javiers Information flow facilitated by the Chairman and the service and consequent knowledge and The Company Secretary manages the Company Secretary and which takes experience of the group, together with provision of information to the board at account of prior experience and the invaluable retail experience he brings appropriate times in consultation with the business perspectives and the to the role, are highly regarded by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
In addition committees on which he or she serves.
Notwithstanding his length of to formal meetings, the Chairman and Michael McLintock, who joined the board service and, having given due deliberation Chief Executive maintain regular contact on 1 November 2017, will undertake an to the matter, the board is satisfied that with all directors.
The Chairman holds induction over the coming months.
Javier continues to demonstrate the informal meetings with non-executive The aim of the programme will be to qualities of independence and objectivity directors, without any of the executives familiarise him with the way the group in carrying out his role as a non-executive being present, to discuss issues affecting operates through its five strategic director.
The board considers that he the group, when appropriate.
Regular business segments, with its governance continues to be independent in character management updates are sent to policies and procedures, with the legal and judgement and that there are no directors to keep the non-executive and regulatory duties as a director of relationships or circumstances which are directors informed of events throughout a listed company and with the groups likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the group between board meetings and approach to corporate responsibility.
Javier is offering himself to ensure that they are kept fully advised Michael will be encouraged, as all new for re-election at the annual general of the latest issues affecting the group.
directors are, to accelerate his knowledge meeting and the board will continue to of the group by visiting a variety of its Board performance evaluation keep his independence under review.
An evaluation to assess the performance As at the date of this report, the of the board as a whole, its committees Following his appointment in April 2016, board comprises the Chairman, Chief and the individual directors is conducted Richard Reids induction programme Executive, Finance Director and seven annually with the aim of improving continued during the year under review non-executive directors.
Biographical and the effectiveness of the board and with meetings with members of related information about the directors its members and the performance operational and group management is set out on pages 60 and 61. of the group.
which included the Group Pensions Appointments to the board Director, Head of HR at AB Sugar, Progress from 2016 evaluation There is a formal and transparent Managing Director of British Sugar, the During the year, the Chairman oversaw procedure for the appointment of Head of Executive Development at the the implementation and progression new directors to the board.
Details are corporate centre and Primarks Director of various recommendations arising available in the Nomination committee of Ethical Trade.
Richard also attended from the 2016 and earlier evaluations, report on page 69 which also provides the British Sugar glasshouse opening which included the actions set out in details of the committees role at Wissington in April 2017. the table on page 66. and activities.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 66 The board composition, Based on the outcome of the 2017 Progress on 2016 objectives expertise, dynamics, management review, it was concluded that the board Board support and meetings of meetings, support, focus, strategic and its committees were continuing to The use of electronic board papers was and operational oversight, risk function very effectively with a good trialled and adopted for use at board and management and internal control, balance of support, challenge and mutual committee meetings.
succession planning and human trust between the executives and the More time was allocated for reflective resource management, and priorities non-executives.
The directors were each discussion and debate following for change: considered to be making a valuable divisional presentations.
contribution and demonstrating proper Audit, Nomination and Non-executive directors commitment, including of time, to their Remuneration committees time The non-executive directors took up a respective roles.
management, composition, processes number of opportunities to engage with Conflicts of interest procedure and support, leadership, work the businesses, attending various key The Company has procedures in place to and effectiveness of each of the group events with staff to enable them deal with the situation where a director committees during the year and to build a deeper understanding of the has a conflict of interest.
As part of this opportunities to improve performance groups businesses and people.
process, the board: of the respective committee in the In recognition of the fact that more year ahead: and involvement by the non-executive considers each conflict situation directors, with their collective broad Individual directors assessment separately on its particular facts: business experience, could be of of individual contributions and considers the conflict situation in benefit to individual businesses, details opportunities for personal conjunction with the rest of the of their respective areas of expertise development, including a review and experience were collated and made conflicted directors duties under of the Chairmans performance.
available to the businesses to call upon the 2006 Act: where helpful.
Lintstock prepared a written report keeps records and board minutes as to based on the completed questionnaires Risk management authorisations granted by directors and which was discussed with the Chairman, Following a request by the non-executive the scope of any approvals given: and with the review of the Chairmans own directors for greater visibility of emerging performance being sent to the Senior regularly reviews conflict authorisation.
strategic risk, divisional presentations Independent Director.
The report was now include more detail in this regard.
Accountability subsequently sent to board members Financial and business reporting Succession and talent and was discussed at the September The board is required by the Code Greater emphasis and discussion time board meeting.
to present a fair, balanced and was given to the future shape of the board A list of recommended actions arising understandable assessment of the with input sought from all board members.
from this years evaluation is being Companys position, performance, Audit committee implemented under the direction of the business model and strategy.
In A few practical changes were implemented, Chairman and includes those identified relation to this requirement, reference following the appointment of a new in the table below.
is made to the statement of directors chairman of the Audit committee in 2016, responsibilities for preparing the financial such as the introduction of a rolling calendar Priorities for change identified from the statements set out on page 98 of 2017 evaluation of agenda items, which have enhanced the this annual report and accounts.
The running of the meetings and functioning of Board succession board recognises that its responsibility the committee.
A continued focus on succession planning to present a fair, balanced and for board members was identified as understandable assessment extends 2017 evaluation a priority, with emphasis on the need to interim and other price-sensitive for open discussion on the subject.
Following the internal review carried public reports, reports to regulators, out in 2016, this year the board and information required to be Retail business commissioned an  Particular attention to be given to the retail presented by statutory requests.
The review was business, including maintaining regular Business model carried out during the final quarter of board time for discussing key projects, A description of the Companys business the financial year with the assistance challenges and opportunities facing Primark.
model for sustainable growth is set out of Lintstock Limited Lintstock, a Risk in the group business model and strategy London-based corporate advisory firm Continuing to develop and enhance section on pages 8 and 9 and in the which has no other connection to the understanding at board level of the business strategies section on pages Associated British Foods.
groups approach to risk management 12 and 13.
These sections provide an The 2017 review involved each board and the ongoing risk factors affecting explanation of the basis on which the member and the Company Secretary group businesses.
group generates value and preserves responding to a web-based questionnaire it over the long term and its strategy designed by Lintstock together with the for delivering its objectives.
The topics covered included the following: Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 67 67 Going concern and viability of each business is required to confirm control framework and make After making enquiries the directors twice yearly that it has complied with recommendations for improvement have a reasonable expectation that the these policies and procedures.
Internal Company and the group have adequate audit also conducts regular reviews to High level controls resources to continue in operational ensure that risk management procedures All businesses prepare annual operating existence for a period of at least and controls are observed.
The Audit plans and budgets which are updated 12 months from the date of approval committee receives regular reports on regularly.
Performance against budget of these annual financial statements.
the results of internal audits work and is monitored at operational level and Accordingly, and consistent with the monitors the status of recommendations centrally, with variances being reported guidance contained in the document arising.
The committee reviews annually promptly.
The cash position at group and titled Guidance on Risk Management, the adequacy, qualifications and business level is monitored constantly Internal Control and Related Financial experience of the groups internal audit and variances from expected levels are and Business Reporting published by resources and the nature and scope investigated thoroughly.
the FRC in 2014, they continue to adopt of internal audit activity in the overall the going concern basis in preparing Clearly defined guidelines have been context of the groups risk management the annual financial statements.
established for capital expenditure and system.
The Director of Financial Control investment decisions.
These include the meets with the chairman of the Audit The Code requires the directors to preparation of budgets, appraisal and committee as appropriate but at least assess and report on the prospects review procedures and delegated quarterly, without the presence of of the group over a longer period.
executive management, and has direct longer term viability statement is set access to the Chairman of the board.
Financial reporting Detailed management accounts are Assessment of principal risks Risk management and internal control prepared every four weeks, consolidated The directors confirm that, during the The board acknowledges its overall in a single system and reviewed by senior year, the board has carried out a robust responsibility for monitoring the groups management and the board.
They include assessment of the principal risks facing risk management and internal control a comprehensive set of financial reports the group, including those that could systems to facilitate the identification, and key performance indicators covering threaten its business model, future assessment and management of risk, the commercial, operational, environmental performance, solvency or liquidity.
A protection of shareholders investments and people issues.
Performance against description of the principal risks and how and the groups assets.
The directors budgets and forecasts is discussed they are being managed and mitigated recognise that they are responsible regularly at board meetings and at is set out in the Strategic report on for providing a return to shareholders, meetings between operational and pages 54 to 58. which is consistent with the responsible group management.
The adequacy and assessment and mitigation of risks.
Annual review of the effectiveness suitability of key performance indicators of the systems The directors confirm that there is a is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives During the year, the board reviewed the process for identifying, evaluating and and finance directors of the groups effectiveness of the groups systems managing the risks faced by the group operations are asked to sign an annual of risk management and internal control and the operational effectiveness of the confirmation that their business has processes embracing all material related controls, which has been in place complied with the Group Accounting systems, including financial, operational for the year under review and up to the Manual in the preparation of consolidated and compliance controls, to ensure that date of approval of the annual report financial statements and specifically to they remain robust.
The review covered and accounts.
They also confirm that confirm the adequacy and accuracy of the financial year to 16 September 2017 they have regularly monitored the accounting provisions.
and the period to the date of approval of effectiveness of the risk management Internal audit this annual report and accounts.
The and internal control systems which The groups businesses employ internal review included: cover all material controls including auditors both employees and resources financial, operational and compliance the annual risk management review, provided by major accounting firms other controls utilising the review process a comprehensive process identifying than the firm involved in the audit of the set out below.
the key external and operational risks group with skills and experience relevant facing the group and the controls and Standards to the operation of each business.
activities in place to mitigate them, the There are guidelines on the minimum All of the internal audit activities are findings of which are discussed with groupwide requirements for health and co-ordinated centrally by the groups each member of the board individually safety and environmental standards.
Director of Financial Control, who is refer to the risk management section There are also guidelines on the accountable to the Audit committee.
on page 54 of the Strategic report for minimum level of internal control that All group businesses are required details of the process undertaken : each of the divisions should exercise over to comply with the groups financial specified processes.
Each business has the report presented to the board control framework that sets out developed and documented policies and during the year by the groups Director minimum control standards.
A key procedures to comply with the minimum of Financial Control on food safety and function of the groups internal audit control standards established, including product recall procedures: and resources is to undertake audits to procedures for monitoring compliance ensure compliance with the financial and taking corrective action.
The board Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 68 the annual assessment of internal The Chairman issues an invitation The Company reports formally to control, which, following consideration each year to the Companys largest shareholders in a number of ways.
by the Audit committee, provided institutional shareholders to hear Significant matters relating to trading or assurance to the board around their views and discuss any issues development of the business, and routine the control environment and or concerns.
During the year, the reporting obligations, are disseminated by processes in place around the Chairman held meetings with a way of Stock Exchange announcements group, specifically those relating number of institutional shareholders and by press releases.
Interim results are to internal financial control.
and discussed a range of topics announced in April each year and full year including the Companys strategy results in November, followed by the The board evaluated the effectiveness and approach to governance and publication of the formal annual report of the managements processes remuneration-related matters.
for monitoring and reviewing risk management and internal control.
On the day of the announcement In line with best practice, the Companys No significant failings or weaknesses of the final and interim results, the default means of communication is were identified by the review and the Companys largest shareholders, online although shareholders can opt board is satisfied that, where areas of together with financial analysts, are to receive documents in paper form improvement were identified, processes invited to a presentation with a question at any time.
The Companys website are in place to ensure that remedial and answer session by the Chief www.
co. uk provides current and action is taken and progress monitored.
Executive and Finance Director, with historical financial information, including The board confirmed that it was satisfied webcast presentations of the results trading statements, news releases, that the systems and processes were available for all shareholders through financial results presentations, and a functioning effectively and complied with the Companys website.
Following the wealth of other information regarding the requirements of the UK Corporate results, the executive team hold one-toAssociated British Foods.
one and group meetings with institutional Annual general meeting shareholders and potential investors.
Remuneration The 2017 AGM will be held on Friday, A separate Remuneration report is The Company Secretary acts as a focal 8 December 2017 at 11.00 am at the set out on pages 75 to 93 which point for communications on matters of Congress Centre in London.
The board provides details of our remuneration corporate responsibility.
During the year, considers that the AGM provides a policy and how it has been implemented, the Company responded to requests valuable opportunity to communicate together with the activities of the for meetings, telephone meetings with private shareholders in particular Remuneration committee.
or written information from both about the general development of the existing and potential shareholders business, enabling them to ask questions Articles of association and research bodies on a broad of the Chairman and, through him, the and share capital range of environmental, social and chairmen of the key committees and Information in relation to share capital, governance risk matters including other directors.
All members of the the appointment and powers of directors, climate change-related matters, water board are available to talk to shareholders the issue and buy back of shares and and greenhouse gas risk management, after the meeting.
significant interests in share capital is supply chain management, animal set out in the Directors report on A trading update is provided at the welfare, sustainable agriculture, human pages 94 to 97. meeting and each year the Company rights, gender balance and human shows a short film at the meeting Relations with shareholders capital development.
highlighting a particular area of the Shareholder engagement The Senior Independent Director is groups business.
At this years AGM, The board recognises its responsibility available to shareholders in the event the film will focus on the Ovaltine brand for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue that communication with the Chairman, around the world.
During Chief Executive or Finance Director has the year, the board has maintained an The Notice of AGM, which sets out in failed to resolve concerns or where active programme of engagement with full the resolutions for consideration by such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior investors, the purpose of which is both shareholders together with explanatory Independent Director attended sufficient to develop shareholders understanding notes, has been sent to shareholders meetings with major shareholders of the Companys strategy, operations and is also available on the Investors to listen to their views in order to and performance and to provide the section of the Companys website develop a balanced understanding board with an awareness of the views www.
At each board meeting, the directors are briefed on shareholder meetings that have taken place and on feedback received, including any significant concerns raised.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 69 69 senior management, head of human Looking beyond the board to the groups NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT resources and external advisors may wider workforce we recognise that true be invited to attend meetings as and diversity can only be achieved when Members when appropriate.
the entire workforce is committed to During the year and at the date of delivering it.
Given the decentralised The Chairman does not chair the this report: nature of the group, policies to promote Nomination committee when it is diversity in the workforce are developed Charles Sinclair Chairman dealing with the appointment of his and implemented locally within each Ruth Cairnie successor.
In these circumstances the Tim Clarke of the businesses.
However there are committee is chaired by an independent Javier Ferrn a number of ongoing initiatives across non-executive director elected by the Wolfhart Hauser Associated British Foods which aim remaining members.
to promote diversity: Primary responsibilities The committee may take independent a groupwide gender diversity task In accordance with its terms of professional advice on any matters force includes representation from reference, the Nomination committees covered by its terms of reference at across the businesses and has, primary responsibilities include: the Companys expense.
as one of its principal objectives, leading the process for board The committee chairman reports the the aim of ensuring that there are no appointments and making outcome of meetings to the board.
barriers preventing talented people recommendations to the board: from succeeding: The terms of reference of the regularly reviewing the board Nomination committee are available on senior and high-potential women are structure, size and composition the Investors section of the Companys invited to join the Womens Business including skills, knowledge, independence, experience and website www.
Forum, which meets several times a diversity, recommending any year providing a chance for networking, Board appointments process necessary changes: learning and support for personal The process for making new career development: considering plans for orderly appointments is led by the Chairman.
succession for appointments to Where appropriate, external, independent the ABF Two-way Mentoring the board and to senior management consultants are engaged to conduct a Programme aims to grow the talent to maintain an appropriate balance search for potential candidates, who pipeline by matching high potential of skills and experience within the are considered on the basis of their women, nominated by their business Company and to ensure progressive skills, experience and fit with the existing units, with senior leaders around refreshment of the board: members of the board.
The Nomination the group who support their career keeping under review the leadership committee has procedures for appointing development and broaden their needs of the group, both executive a non-executive or an executive director business experience.
In return the and non-executive, to ensure the and these are set out in its terms senior leaders have the opportunity continued ability of the group of reference.
to learn about another business or organisation to compete efficiently function, understand the perspectives in the marketplace: and Meetings of women working within them The committee met three times during being responsible for identifying and and develop their own listening the year under review.
nominating, for the approval of the and coaching skills: and board, candidates to fill board Diversity policy vacancies as and when they arise.
training in unconscious bias, As a board, we recognise that diversity which aims to build awareness and is essential for introducing different challenge commonly-held myths Governance perspectives into board debate and around diversity, has been included Members of the Nomination committee decision-making.
We recognise in the groups leadership development are appointed by the board from moreover that a genuinely diverse board programme for a number of years and amongst the directors of the Company, comprises individuals with a range of has now been extended to a wider in consultation with the Chairman.
The personal attributes, perspectives, skills, group of managers.
committee comprises a minimum of experience and backgrounds, who three members at any time, a majority also represent differences in nationality, Committee activities during the year of whom are independent non-executive race and gender.
The board has decided Appointment of new independent directors.
A quorum consists of two not to set any measurable objectives in non-executive director members being either two independent relation to its diversity policy.
However, During the year, the Chairman led the non-executive directors or one candidates for future board appointments process for the appointment of a new independent non-executive director are considered from the widest possible non-executive director as part of the and the Chairman.
Gender remains an important progressive refreshing of the board.
aspect of the overall diversity, and it is Only members of the committee The services of external executive our policy to ask any executive search have the right to attend committee search consulting firm Spencer agencies engaged to ensure that half meetings.
Other individuals such as Stuart were engaged to help identify of the candidates they put forward for the Chief Executive, members of potential candidates.
Spencer Stuart is consideration are women.
independent, with no other connection Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 70 to the Company and is a signatory AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on gender Internal financial controls Members diversity and best practice.
reviewing the effectiveness of the During the year and at the date of Potential candidates were considered groups internal financial controls, this report: on the basis of their skills and experience including the policies and overall Richard Reid chairman process for assessing established in the context of the range of skills Ruth Cairnie systems of internal financial control and experience of the existing board Wolfhart Hauser and timeliness and effectiveness of as a whole.
Michael McLintock corrective action taken by from 1 November 2017 Following a rigorous process of management: interviews and assessments and, on Whistleblowing and fraud Primary responsibilities the recommendations of the Nomination overseeing the groups policies, In accordance with its terms of committee, the board approved the procedures and controls for preventing reference, the Audit committees appointment of Michael McLintock bribery, identifying money laundering, primary responsibilities include: with effect from 1 November 2017. and the groups arrangements for Financial reporting whistleblowing: Re-election of non-executive directors monitoring the integrity of the groups Internal audit The committee reviewed the results of financial statements and any formal monitoring and reviewing the the annual board performance evaluation announcements relating to the effectiveness and independence of that related to the composition of the Companys performance, reviewing the groups internal audit function board and the time needed to fulfil the significant financial reporting in the context of the groups overall roles of Chairman, Senior Independent judgements contained in them financial risk management system: Director and non-executive director.
before their submission to the board: considering and approving the remit It was satisfied that all members of informing the board of the outcome of the internal audit function, ensuring the board are devoting sufficient time of the groups external audit and it has adequate resources and to their duties.
explaining how it contributed to the appropriate access to information integrity of financial reporting: The committee considered the to enable it to perform its function re-election of directors prior to their reviewing and challenging, where effectively: and recommended approval by shareholders necessary, the consistency of, and External audit changes to, accounting and treasury at the annual general meeting.
The nonoverseeing the relationship with the policies: whether the group has executive directors who have been on groups external auditor, including followed appropriate accounting the board for more than six years were reporting to the board each year policies and made appropriate subject to particularly rigorous review.
whether it considers the audit contract estimates and judgements: the should be put out to tender, adhering to Performance evaluation clarity and completeness of any legal requirements for tendering or The committees effectiveness was disclosure: significant adjustments rotation of the audit services contract as reviewed as part of the boards resulting from the audit: the going appropriate, reviewing and monitoring concern assumption, the viability performance evaluation process which the external auditors objectivity and statement, and compliance with was carried out during the final quarter independence, agreeing the scope of auditing standards: of the year under review.
This evaluation their work and fees paid to them for concluded that the committee was Narrative reporting audit, assessing the effectiveness of continuing to function effectively.
at the boards request, reviewing the audit process, and agreeing the policy in relation to the provision of the content of the annual report and accounts and advising the board on non-audit services.
whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: where requested by the board, assisting in relation to the boards assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and the prospects of the Company for the purposes of disclosures required in the annual report and accounts: Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 71 71 Governance present such reports as are required for the accounting principles, policies The Audit committee comprises a the committee to discharge its duties.
and practices adopted in the groups minimum of three members, all of financial statements, any proposed During the year, the committee held whom are independent non-executive changes to them, and the adequacy four meetings with the external auditor directors of the Company.
Two members of their disclosure: without any executive members of the constitute a quorum.
Appointments are board being present.
important accounting issues or areas of for a period of three years after which complexity, the actions, estimates and they are subject to annual review, The committee has unrestricted access judgements of management in relation extendable by two further three-year to Company documents and information, to financial reporting and in particular periods so long as members continue as well as to employees of the Company the assumptions underlying the going to be independent.
No members of the and the external auditor.
concern and viability statements: committee have served a term of more The committee may take independent than six years.
any significant adjustments to financial professional advice on any matters reporting arising from the audit: The committee structure requires covered by its terms of reference at the inclusion of at least one financially the Companys expense.
litigation and contingent liabilities qualified member as recognised by the affecting the group: and The committee chairman reports the Consultative Committee of Accountancy outcome of meetings to the board.
tax contingencies, compliance with Bodies with recent and relevant financial statutory tax obligations and the experience and competence in The committees effectiveness was groups tax policy.
accounting or auditing or both.
reviewed during the final quarter of the year as part of the boards performance In view of the increased risk to the The committee chairman fulfilled evaluation process.
A description of how control environment associated with this requirement during the year.
All the evaluation was conducted is set Primarks change of general ledger committee members are expected to out on page 66 of the corporate system, the committee reviewed the be financially literate and to have an governance report.
project plan and governance process understanding of the following areas: pre-implementation: received regular The terms of reference of the Audit the principles of, and developments updates from management and the committee can be viewed on the in, financial reporting including the project team before and after Investors section of the Companys applicable accounting standards and implementation: and reviewed the website www.
statements of recommended practice: performance of the finance function Meetings post-implementation, including an key aspects of the Companys The Audit committee met four times evaluation of the robustness of the operations including corporate during the year.
The committees financial statement close process, policies and the groups internal agenda is linked to events in the with management, internal and control environment: groups financial calendar.
matters which may influence Activities during the year Significant accounting issues the presentation of accounts and In order to fulfil its terms of reference, considered by the Audit key figures: the Audit committee receives and committee in relation to the reviews presentations and reports the principles of, and developments groups financial statements from the groups senior management, in, company law, sector-specific laws A key responsibility of the committee consulting as necessary with the and other relevant corporate legislation: is to consider the significant areas of external auditor.
complexity, management judgement and the role of internal and external estimation that have been applied in the Monitoring the integrity of auditing and risk management: and preparation of the financial statements.
reported financial information the regulatory framework for the The committee has, with support from Ensuring the integrity of the groups businesses.
Ernst & Young as external auditor, financial statements and associated reviewed the suitability of the accounting announcements is a fundamental The committee as a whole has policies which have been adopted and responsibility of the Audit committee.
competence relevant to the sectors whether management has made in which the group operates.
During the year it formally reviewed appropriate estimates and judgements.
the groups interim and annual reports, The committee invites the Group Set out below are the significant areas including the associated pre-close period Finance Director, Group Financial of accounting judgement or management trading updates, and the trading updates Controller, Director of Financial Control estimation and a description of how issued for the first and third quarters.
and senior representatives of the external the committee concluded that such These reviews considered: auditor to attend its meetings in full, judgements and estimates were although it reserves the right to request the description of performance to appropriate.
These are divided between any of these individuals to withdraw.
ensure it was fair, balanced and those that could have a material impact Other senior managers are invited to understandable: on the financial statements and those that are less likely to have a material impact but nevertheless, by their nature, required a degree of estimation.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 72 Areas of significant accounting judgement and estimation material to the group financial statements Audit committee assurance The committee considered the reasonableness of cash flow projections which were Impairment of goodwill, intangible based on the most recent budget approved by the board and reflected managements and tangible assets expectations of sales growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience Assessment for impairment involves and external sources of information.
Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by comparing the book value of an asset with the annual budget were challenged to ensure they were appropriate for the products, its recoverable amount being the higher of industries and countries in which the relevant cash generating units operate.
The value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
committee also reviewed and challenged the key assumptions made in deriving these Value in use is determined with reference to projections: discount rates, growth rates, and expected changes in production and sales projected future cash flows discounted at an volumes, selling prices and direct costs.
The committee also considered the adequacy appropriate rate.
Both the cash flows and the of the disclosures in respect of the key assumptions and sensitivities.
Refer to notes discount rate involve a significant degree of 8 and 9 to the financial statements for further details.
The committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions appropriately reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the particular assets.
The other key assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The external auditor undertook an independent audit of the estimate of value in use, including a challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections, long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
On the basis of their audit work, and their challenge of the key assumptions and associated sensitivities, they concurred with management that no impairments were required.
The committee reviews the Companys tax policy and principles for managing Tax provisions The level of current and deferred tax tax risks annually.
recognised in the financial statements is The committee reviewed and challenged the provisions recorded at the balance sheet dependent on judgements as to the date and management confirmed that they represent their best estimate of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities in financial exposure faced by the group.
various jurisdictions around the world and The external auditor described to the committee the work they had conducted during the ability of the group to use tax losses the year, including how their audit procedures were focused on those provisions requiring within the time limits imposed by the various the highest degree of judgement.
The committee discussed with management and the tax authorities.
See also reference to external auditor the key judgements which had been made.
It was satisfied that the taxation on page 48. judgements were reasonable and that, accordingly, the provision amounts recorded were appropriate.
Other accounting areas requiring management judgement or estimation Audit committee assurance Actuarial valuations of the groups pension scheme obligations are undertaken every three Post-retirement benefits years by independent qualified actuaries who also provide advice to management on the Valuation of the groups pension schemes and post-retirement medical benefit assumptions to be used in preparing the accounting valuations each year.
Details of the assumptions made in the current and previous year are disclosed in note 11 of the financial schemes require various subjective statements together with the bases on which those assumptions have been made.
judgements to be made including mortality assumptions, discount rates, general and The committee reviewed the assumptions by comparison with externally-derived data and salary inflation, and the rates of increase also considered the adequacy of disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the surplus or for pensions in payment and those deficit to changes in these key assumptions.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 73 73 Misstatements To fulfil its duties, the committee External audit Management reported to the committee also considered: Auditor independence that they were not aware of any material The Audit committee is responsible for internal audits reporting lines and or immaterial misstatements made the development, implementation and access to the committee and all intentionally to achieve a particular monitoring of policies and procedures members of the board: presentation.
The auditor reported to on the use of the external auditor for the committee the misstatements they internal audits plans and its non-audit services, in accordance with had found in the course of their work.
achievement of the planned activity: professional and regulatory requirements.
After due consideration the committee These policies are kept under review to the results of key audits and other concurred with management that these ensure that the group benefits, in a costsignificant findings, the adequacy misstatements were not material and effective manner, from the cumulative of managements response and that no adjustments were required.
knowledge and experience of its auditor the timeliness of their resolution: whilst also ensuring that the auditor Internal financial control maintains the necessary degree of statistics on staff numbers, and risk management independence and objectivity.
The qualifications and experience and The committee is required to assist the committees policy on the use of the timeliness of reporting: board to fulfil its responsibilities relating external auditor to provide non-audit to the adequacy and effectiveness of the nature and extent of non-audit services is in accordance with applicable the control environment, controls over activity performed by internal audit: and laws and takes into account the relevant financial reporting and the groups ethical guidance for auditors.
Any nonchanges since the last annual compliance with the UK Corporate audit work to be undertaken by the assessment of the significant financial Governance Code.
To fulfil these duties, auditor requires authorisation by the risks and the groups ability to respond the committee reviewed: Group Finance Director and the Audit to changes in its business and the the external auditors management committee prior to its commencement.
letters and their Audit committee The committee also ensures that Whistleblowing and fraud reports: fees incurred, or to be incurred, for nonThe groups whistleblowing policy audit services both individually and in internal audit reports on key audit contains arrangements for an aggregate, do not exceed any limits in areas and significant deficiencies in independent external service provider applicable law and take into account the the financial control environment: to receive, in confidence, complaints on relevant ethical guidance for auditors.
accounting, risk issues, internal controls, reports on the systems of internal The committee is required to approve auditing issues and related matters for financial control and risk management: the use of the external auditor to provide: reporting to the Audit committee as accounting advice and training: corporate reports on fraud perpetrated against appropriate.
The Audit committee responsibility and other assurance the group: reviewed reports from internal audit services: financial due diligence in and the external service provider and the groups approach to IT, cyber respect of acquisitions and disposals: the actions arising therefrom.
security and whistleblowing: and and will consider other services when it The groups anti-fraud policy has been is in the best interests of the Company reports on significant systems communicated to all employees and to do so, provided they can be implementations.
states that all employees have a undertaken without jeopardising Internal audit responsibility for fraud prevention and auditor independence.
With effect The Audit committee is required to assist detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should from 18 September 2016, tax services the board in fulfilling its responsibilities be reported immediately and will be including tax compliance, tax planning for ensuring the capability of the internal investigated vigorously.
The Audit and related implementation advice may audit function and the adequacy of its committee reviewed all instances of not be undertaken by the external resourcing and plans.
It reviews annually fraud perpetrated against the Company auditor.
The aggregate expenditure internal audits Guidelines and Operating and the action taken by management with the group auditor is reviewed by Standards that outline the functions both to pursue the perpetrators and to the Audit committee.
No individually unrestricted scope, its purpose and prevent recurrences.
significant non-audit assignments responsibilities to ensure they are that would require disclosure were appropriate for the Companys needs.
undertaken in the financial year.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 74 The Company has a policy that any reports highlighting the major issues In accordance with the requirements partners, directors or senior managers that arose during the course of of the UK Corporate Governance Code hired directly from the external auditor the audit: and other changes to the EU and UK must be pre-approved by the Group HR regulatory framework, the Audit feedback from the businesses Director, and the Group Finance Director committee undertook a comprehensive evaluating the performance of or Group Financial Controller, with the competitive tender for the external audit each assigned audit team: and chairman of the Audit committee being during 2015 and the appointment of consulted as appropriate.
a report from the Audit Quality Review Ernst & Young LLP to replace the Companys previous auditors was Team of the Financial Reporting The Audit committee has formally Council FRC.
approved by shareholders at the 2015 reviewed the independence of its auditor.
AGM and it was reappointed as Ernst & Young LLP has provided a letter The Audit committee holds private auditor at the AGM in December 2016. confirming that it believes it remained meetings with the external auditor after Andrew Walton, the audit partner, has independent throughout the year, each committee meeting to review key held his role since Ernst & Young LLPs within the meaning of the regulations issues within their sphere of interest appointment in 2015.
The Audit on this matter and in accordance with and responsibility.
Committee is satisfied with the auditors its professional standards.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight effectiveness and independence and To fulfil its responsibility to ensure the has recommended to the board that of the external audit process, the Audit independence of the external auditor, committee reviewed: Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed the Audit committee reviewed: as the Companys external auditor for the terms, areas of responsibility, 2017 2018.
The Company has no current a report from the external auditor associated duties and scope of the retendering plans.
describing arrangements to identify, audit as set out in the external auditors report and manage any conflicts of Compliance with the CMA Order engagement letter: interest, and policies and procedures The Company confirms that, during the the overall work plan and fee proposal: for maintaining independence and period under review, it has complied monitoring compliance with relevant with the provisions of The Statutory the major issues that arose during the requirements: and Audit Services for Large Companies course of the audit and their resolution: Market Investigation Mandatory Use of the extent of non-audit services key accounting and audit judgements: Competitive Tender Processes and Audit provided by the external auditor.
Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. the level of errors identified during the The total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP audit: and for the year ended 16 September 2017 recommendations made by the were 6.8m of which 0.5m related external auditor in their management to non-audit work.
Further details are letters and the adequacy of provided in note 2 to the financial managements response.
Auditor appointment Consideration is also given by the Audit The Audit committee reviews annually committee to the need to include the risk the appointment of the auditor, taking of the withdrawal of the external auditors into account the auditors effectiveness from the market in its risk evaluation and independence, and makes and planning.
a recommendation to the board Auditor effectiveness accordingly.
Any decision to open the To assess the effectiveness of the external audit to tender is taken on the external auditor, the committee recommendation of the Audit committee.
reviewed: There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice the external auditors fulfilment of the of external auditor.
agreed audit plan and variations from it: Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT 75 Annual statement by the Remuneration committee chairman I am pleased to present the Directors year and is at, or close to, the budgeted profit from our sugar business in 2015.
Remuneration report for the year level of performance.
The committee This led to a fall in the groups adjusted ended 16 September 2017 on behalf then sets a range around the target to earnings per share that year making of theboard.
both incentivise delivery of a stretching achievement of the three-year growth performance and allow for limited under target by 2017 considerably more This Remuneration report is split into performance due to events beyond challenging.
Some recovery in sugar two sections: management control.
The range itself prices in 2017, a focus on continuous our directors remuneration policy varies each year, taking into account improvement and excellent underlying as approved in December 2016 : and the risks and opportunities facing trading performances across the group the business.
have driven growth in adjusted eps the annual implementation report over the three-year performance on remuneration.
Recognising that investors are keen period which has resulted in 51.02% to understand the degree of stretch Remuneration policy and of allocated shares vesting to the in our incentive performance ranges, shareholder engagement executive directors.
We are pleased but mindful of the competitive In 2016 we revised our remuneration that our performance this year has sensitivity of such disclosure, we policy to better align with our business resulted in this level of vesting after decided in 2016 to disclose the strategy.
As a result of volatility in the low and zero vesting outcomes performance ranges that applied world and European sugar prices, of the last two years.
to our STIP on a retrospective basis.
we introduced an additional earnings Targets relating to the 2014 15 2017 18 STIP and 2017-20 LTIP per share measure into the long term award are detailed in this years performance ranges incentive plan LTIP.
We also adopted implementation report on page 88.
The performance range for 2017 18 a return on average capital employed incentives has been set against a modifier on the LTIP which adjusts the In 2014 15 Grocery, Agriculture, background of much lower EU sugar calculated LTIP outcome downwards Ingredients and Retail all increased their prices, an expectation of further growth if ROCE targets are not delivered.
Sugar profit was substantially for Primark and no material benefit from We increased shareholding requirements lower than in the previous year as a currency translation.
Sterling weakness for our executive directors and result of much weaker euro-denominated against the US dollar will continue to introduced a deferred award of shares EU sugar prices but the business made have an adverse transactional effect connected with the short term incentive great progress in reducing operating on Primarks margin in the first half plan STIP.
The financial element of the although a strengthening of the euro with our largest shareholders and STIP paid out at 38% of maximum and against the US dollar will benefit margin their representative bodies on our the individual performance element in the second half if current exchange remuneration structure and, at last was just ahead of on target for rates prevail.
The STIP performance years AGM, we received a 98.35% both the Chief Executive and the range will be disclosed in the Directors vote in favour of our remuneration Finance Director.
Remuneration Report for 2020. report and a 97.19% vote in favour 2016 17 performance of our remuneration policy.
I would When setting the LTIP targets, and incentive outcomes like to thank our investors for their the committee conducts an analysis This year our performance has been constructive input and voting support.
of the challenges and growth strong, with good operating profit opportunities across the group over We believe that the changes we made growth being delivered by the Retail, the performance period.
We believe to the policy are working well.
Ongoing Sugar and Ingredients businesses and the target eps ranges detailed on volatility in sugar prices reinforces the the Grocery and Agriculture businesses page 92 are stretching and that rationale for the approach that we have performed well in challenging conditions.
achieving the on-target level of taken on the LTIP and we are not Primark, in particular, delivered stronger performance will represent a good proposing to make any further changes profit growth than expected when performance for our shareholders to our remuneration policy for either STIP targets were set.
Working capital by the executive directors.
2017 18 or 2018 19. was also well managed throughout the year.
This is reflected in the 2016 17 2014 15 STIP performance range STIP outcome, where both financial In setting our incentive targets Charles Sinclair performance measures were achieved we have regard to the performance Remuneration committee chairman at maximum as defined under the plan.
potential of the different parts of the business and of the whole.
Our LTIP target range for allocations The on-target performance level for made in 2014 and vesting this year was STIP is set at the start of each financial set before a further decline in EU sugar prices resulted in a substantial fall in Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 REMUNERATION REPORT This report This report sets out: the remuneration policy that applies to executive and non-executive directors: how the policy, approved in 2016, was implemented: the amounts earned by our executive and non-executive directors in the year: and how we expect to implement the proposed remuneration policy in 2017 18.
The committee chairmans letter, this introduction and the annual implementation report on directors remuneration set out on pages 86 to 93 will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
The vote will have advisory status in respect of overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
Compliance Where information in this report has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP it has been clearly indicated.
The report has been prepared in line with the requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies Regulations, the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Role of the Remuneration committee The committee is responsible to the board for determining: the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Chairman taking into account remuneration trends across the Company: the specific terms and conditions of employment of each individual director: the overall policy for remuneration of the Chief Executives first and second line reports: the design and monitoring of the operation of any Company share plans: stretching incentive targets for executive directors to encourage enhanced performance: an approach that fairly and responsibly rewards contribution to the Companys long-term success: and other provisions of the executive directors service agreements and ensuring that contractual terms and payments made on termination are fair to the individual and the Company, and that failure is not rewarded and loss is mitigated.
The committees remit is set out in detail in its terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly and were last updated in September 2015.
They are available at www.
co. uk investorrelations, or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Members of the Remuneration committee During the financial year and as at 7 November 2017, the committee comprised the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, and the following members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors: Role on committee Independence Year of appointment Meetings attended 1 Charles Sinclair Chairman Chairman 2008 4 2 Tim Clarke Member Senior Independent Director 2004 4 Javier Ferrn Member Independent Director 2006 4 Ruth Cairnie Member Independent Director 2014 4 Wolfhart Hauser Member Independent Director 2015 4 Richard Reid Member Independent Director 2016 4 3 Michael McLintock Member Independent Director 2017 0 1 T he Chairman was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration committee as he had the greatest prior experience of executive reward of any of the non-executive directors.
The Chairman ensures that all board members are kept informed of the remuneration setting process.
2 Tim Clarke retires from the Board on 30 November 2017.
3 Michael McLintock joined the Remuneration committee on 1 November 2017.
George Weston Chief Executive, Des Pullen Group HR Director and Julie Withnall Group Head of Reward attended all of the meetings of the committee.
No individual was present when their own remuneration was being considered.
Remuneration committee advisors and fees Following a competitive tender in 2003, Willis Towers Watson WTW, then Towers Perrin was selected to provide independent advice to the committee.
The committee has retained WTW in this role because it values the robust data and continuity of advice provided over the long term.
The committee remains satisfied that the advice from WTW is independent, thoughtful and challenging and so has not put this out to tender.
The committee will keep this position under review.
WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code in relation to executive remuneration consulting.
The only other advice that WTW provides to the Company is in survey provision, job evaluation and remuneration benchmarking.
The fees paid to WTW for committee assistance over the past financial year totalled 50,848.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 77 Remuneration principles Our remuneration approach takes into account our portfolio model, our market positioning for executive remuneration and our remuneration principles.
Alignment, accountability Our board is accountable for ensuring that the portfolio that we operate is the right one to and doing the right thing deliver optimal returns to shareholders and for ascertaining that the businesses are well run.
Our remuneration policy aims to align executive rewards with shareholder value creation.
Line of sight We aim to align remuneration and business objectives through performance measures to which individuals have line of sight.
Clarity and simplicity We believe that executive pay should be clear and simple for participants to understand.
The best way to achieve this is through alignment with business performance.
Fairness Total remuneration should fairly reflect the performance delivered and efforts made by executives.
Alignment to strategy Our remuneration structure is directly aligned with our strategic goals so that pay supports what we are trying to achieve.
Operating model Strong balance Role of corporate Do the right thing Organic growth sheet and investments centre The corporate centre We manage our The corporate centre We manage the We look for long-term agrees strategy and balance sheet to deliver provides selected business for the opportunities to invest budgets with our long-term financial services and valuelong term.
We ensure adding capabilities In the short term we We are committed to monitors performance.
capital funding is to the businesses.
may make decisions increasing shareholder Operational decisions available to all of our Retention of the that reduce profit value through are made locally.
businesses where individuals with these or increase working sound commercial The corporate centre returns meet or exceed key skills at the centre capital.
This impacts responsibility and creates the framework defined criteria.
is critical to our success.
sustainable business for leaders to have The robust management decisions that deliver freedom in decisionSTIP and LTIP The deferred awards of the balance sheet steady growth in making and ensures performance measures mean that making the ensures that we are earnings and dividends.
activities are supported under the policy should right decisions in the able to deliver a and monitored.
ensure that outcomes short term will deliver The STIP deferred strong performance.
are linked with value through share awards and LTIP shares The STIP personal The LTIP eps and successful performance price growth in the will benefit from a targets for executive ROCE targets hold outcomes resulting from following years.
dividend equivalent, directors are aligned executives to account management effort.
We will disclose the for the performance gives closer TSR The ROCE and eps STIP performance range outcomes of their alignment.
The number measures on the LTIP when the deferred investment decisions.
of shares vesting will will be achieved if the awards vest.
We will reflect the outcomes divisions deliver on then be in a position to of the decisions made in their strategies.
describe the short-term the performance period.
outcome in the context of its long-term impact.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration structures at a glance The table below outlines the remuneration structure that will apply in 2017 18.
Further details are set out in the directors remuneration policy and annual implementation report.
Remuneration element Detail 2018 salaries as follows: Base salary Chief Executive 1,090,000 1.68% increase effective from 1 December 2017 : and Finance Director 720,000 1.98% increase effective from 1 December 2017.
Pension Existing executive directors have benefits under the Companys defined benefit scheme and or Employer Financed Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS, which deliver a retirement benefit target of around two-thirds of final remuneration at normal retirement age.
Future executive directors who are not already entitled to our defined benefit pension at the time of appointment would benefit from a defined contribution arrangement with a Company contribution or cash equivalent of 25% of salary.
Maximum cash STIP 150% of salary: Cash STIP 20% of salary based on personal performance linked to strategic goals: and 130% of salary based on financial performance currently adjusted operating profit with a working capital multiplier.
Deferred award shares Maximum deferred award 50% of salary: based on the same financial targets as the cash STIP financial element: shares vest three years after grant: a dividend equivalent payment is made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date: and following release, and the payment of any taxes due, at least 50% of net shares must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Awards are settled using shares purchased in the market.
Maximum LTIP award 200% of salary: LTIP awards made annually: target vesting is half of maximum and threshold vesting is 10% of maximum: a portion 40% for the 2017 allocation of the shares vest based on performance against a group adjusted eps range with a three-year average group ROCE moderator: a portion 60% for the 2017 allocation of the shares vest based on performance against an adjusted eps range with a three-year average ROCE moderator.
For both measures the Sugar profit will be removed and, for the eps measure, interest and tax attributable to Sugar will be removed on a pre-defined basis: a dividend equivalent payment is made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date: the committee will retain discretion to ensure that outcomes under the plan are consistent with overall performance and to ensure that the element with Sugar performance removed does not lead to unintended consequences: the LTIP performance range for 201720 is shown on page 92: and following release, and the payment of any taxes due, at least 50% of net shares must be held until the shareholding requirement is met.
Shareholding target of 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to be met using Shareholding requirement beneficially-owned shares.
Conditional share awards, including deferred awards, do not count towards this limit as shown on page 89.
Shares that have vested and are subject to a holding period do count towards this limit.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 79 Illustration of incentive model The chart below shows the approach that we apply to incentives.
Performance and release timing % of base Yr 1 Yr 2 Yr 3 Yr 4 Yr 5 Cash STIP Performance Cash payment subject to malus clawback Personal objectives 20% Cash STIP Financial Adjusted operating profit x working capital modier Performance Cash payment subject to malus clawback 0.8 to 1.2x 130% Release of shares subject to malus clawback Performance Deferral Deferred award shares Disclosure of performance range that applied to cash STIP Financial Absolute TSR alignment and deferred award shares As above 50% Release of Performance LTIP Adjusted EPS excluding Holding Vests at end of year 3 shares subject Sugar x moderator based to malus on three-year average ROCE Absolute TSR alignment clawback 1 excluding Sugar 0.8 to 1x 120% Release of Performance Holding Vests at end of year 3 shares subject LTIP Adjusted EPS x moderator to malus based on three-year average Absolute TSR alignment clawback 1 group ROCE 0.8 to 1x 80% Shareholding Absolute TSR alignment requirement 250% 1 Weighting shown applies for 201720 but may change each year.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS This report sets out our remuneration policy, which applied from the close of the AGM on 9 December 2016.
The committee does not expect to revise the remuneration policy until 2019.
For unvested share awards only, the provisions of the remuneration policy presented in the 2013 and 2014 Remuneration reports will continue to apply until such time as all long-term incentive awards granted under those policies have vested or lapsed.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity BASE SALARY Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis or following Increases will be aligned 100% CASH a significant change in responsibilities.
Factors taken into account with those available for include market pay movements, the level of increases awarded other UK employees.
Element and purpose to UK employees across the group and the impact of any increase To provide core reward on the total remuneration package.
If there is a significant change for the role, recognising in role scope, remuneration will be adjusted to reflect this.
responsibility for setting and delivering the strategy.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity BENEFITS Benefits are restricted to typical UK market levels for executive The cost of benefits is not EXCLUDING RELOCATION directors and include, but are not limited to, death in service payment, expected to exceed 10% permanent health insurance, company car plus private fuel, of salary but is dependent AND PENSION family healthcare and, where relevant, fees to maintain on factors that can vary.
Element and purpose professional memberships.
To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package appropriate to the role.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity PENSION Defined benefit DB pension arrangements closed to For directors entitled to Element and purpose new members benefits under the DB scheme To provide a competitive The current executive directors are members of the Companys and or EFRBS, a retirement retirement benefit in DB pension scheme.
The scheme is designed to provide retirement benefit target of circa two-thirds line with best practice benefits of around two-thirds of final remuneration at age 65 of final remuneration is payable standards adopted by 62 for John Bason.
Both executive directors opted out of the at normal retirement age.
major companies in the scheme on 5 April 2006, but retain their accrued benefits.
Since then Otherwise, executives may UK and continental Europe.
they have earned benefits in an EFRBS.
The EFRBS is designed to receive Company contributions broadly mirror the provisions of the DB pension scheme.
or cash equivalent up to a Defined contribution pension arrangements maximum of 25% of base salary.
Future executive directors, who are not already entitled to DB pension arrangements at the time of appointment, will benefit from a defined contribution arrangement, with a Company contribution of 25% of base salary.
Cash alternative Where a UK-based pension arrangement is not possible, or is not tax-efficient, a cash supplement equivalent to the normal pension contribution may be paid in lieu of pension contributions.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity CASH SHORT TERM Performance measures and target-setting STIP cash of 150% INCENTIVE PLAN STIP Group financial performance is assessed against prime financial and of base salary.
strategic measures used across the group on a day-to-day basis to In exceptional circumstances, Element and purpose drive and monitor performance.
The personal element of the STIP such as the appointment To encourage and reward is based on personal targets aligned to our strategic goals.
of a new Chief Executive, the attainment of challenging The on-target performance level is set at the start of each financial this could be increased to financial targets and the year and is at or around the budgeted level of performance, taking 200% of base salary to correct achievement of personal into account any early re-forecasts.
The committee then sets a range any shortfall against market.
performance objectives around the target to incentivise delivery of stretching performance.
Any increase would take into over a one-year period.
account adjustments in other Retrospective disclosure of targets elements of the package Achievement against financial targets will be disclosed after the to ensure that the total was end of the relevant financial year in that years Remuneration report not excessive.
and the performance range that applied to financial targets will be disclosed when the deferred awards vest.
Discretion, clawback and malus Please refer to the notes that follow this table.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 81 Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity DEFERRED AWARDS Performance measures and target-setting Shares worth 50% of base SHARES Annual allocations of conditional shares vest based on performance salary at allocation.
in year one and a further service period of two years.
The performance In exceptional circumstances, Element and purpose measures and targets are the same as for the financial element of such as the appointment To encourage and reward the the cash STIP.
of a new Chief Executive, attainment of challenging Vesting period this could be increased to financial targets.
Shares vest following the announcement of results three years 100% of base salary to correct To facilitate the operation after the start of the relevant STIP performance period.
Any increase would take into Calculation of outcomes, discretion, clawback and malus To align the interests of account adjustments in other As for the financial element of the cash STIP.
elements of the package to Dividend equivalents ensure that the total was To promote executive A cash or shares dividend equivalent payment will be made, not excessive.
pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date.
At maximum, 100% of the allocated shares vest: at target 50% vest: at threshold 10% vest: and below threshold awards lapse.
Operation and link to business strategy Maximum opportunity LONG TERM INCENTIVE Performance measures and target-setting 200% of base salary PLAN LTIP at allocation.
% of award Measure In exceptional circumstances, Element and purpose to be set Growth in adjusted eps.
The calculated outcome may then such as the appointment of To reward long-term annually be moderated downwards to reflect ROCE performance.
a new Chief Executive, this could business growth.
be increased to 300% of base Growth in adjusted eps with the operating profit, tax To align the interests of salary to correct any shortfall and interest of Sugar removed.
The calculated outcome executives and shareholders.
Any increase may then be moderated downwards to reflect ROCE To promote executive would take into account performance with the profit and average capital retention.
adjustments in other elements employed of Sugar removed.
of the package to ensure that the total was not excessive.
These measures reflect our strategy and take into account feedback from investors.
They are well understood both by participants and At maximum, 100% of the shareholders and reduce the impact of sugar price volatility on allocated shares vest: at target long-term growth-based incentive outcomes.
50% vest: at threshold 10% vest: and below threshold Targets are set for each allocation, taking into account the shape awards lapse.
of the portfolio, market expectations and internal forecasts for the next few years, and the scale of investments made.
Vesting period Annual allocations of conditional shares will be free of restrictions after a five-year period, comprising a three-year performance period and a two-year holding period for the net of tax award.
Dividend equivalents A cash or shares dividend equivalent payment will be made, pro rata to the number of shares vesting, at the release date.
Operation and link to business strategy SHAREHOLDING This is not part of our formal remuneration policy.
Details of our current requirement are provided REQUIREMENT in our annual implementation report on page 89.
Element and purpose To demonstrate commitment to the success of the Company and to align executives interests with those of shareholders we require executives to build up a significant level of shareholding.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Operation and link to business strategy NON-EXECUTIVE Non-executives DIRECTORS FEES The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees every other year in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and by reference to the time commitment, responsibility and Element and purpose technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective board.
Fees are paid in cash on To attract and retain a a quarterly basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
Non-executive directors receive high-calibre chairman and no other benefits and take no part in any discussion concerning their own fees.
non-executives by providing The Senior Independent Director and committee chairmen are each paid an additional fee to reflect a competitive core reward their extra responsibilities and greater time commitment.
As the chair of the Remuneration committee for the role.
and the Nomination committee is currently the Company Chairman, no fee is paid for these roles at present.
Chairman The Remuneration committee under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director reviews the Chairmans fees, which are paid monthly in cash.
In addition to his fee, the Chairman also receives private medical insurance for himself and his spouse.
Shareholding We encourage our non-executive directors to build up a shareholding of at least 100% of their annual fee.
Expenses We reimburse reasonable expenses incurred in travelling on behalf of the business.
As HMRC regards travel to the head office as a benefit in kind, we pay any tax due on such expenses on a grossed-up basis.
Notes to the remuneration policy table Malus and clawback The committee may, at any time within two years of an LTIP vesting or STIP being paid, determine that clawback shall apply if the committee determines that performance outcomes were misstated or an erroneous calculation was made in assessing the extent to which performance targets were met.
LTIP and STIP payments can be clawed back if the participant is found at any time prior to vesting payment, including prior to grant, to have committed an act or omission which, in the opinion of the committee, would have justified summary dismissal.
As a condition of participating in the STIP and LTIP, all participants are required to agree that the committee may cause any STIP or LTIP award in which they participate to lapse in whole or in part : and or operate clawback under any LTIP or STIP in which they participate: and or reduce any amounts otherwise payable to them: and or require the participant to immediately transfer shares or cash back to the Company.
Discretion The committee will apply discretion, where necessary and by exception, to ensure that there are no unintended consequences from the operation of the remuneration policy.
The committee applies a robust set of principles to ensure that incentive outcomes are consistent with business performance and aligned with shareholder interests.
Any material exercises of discretion by the committee in relation to the STIP and LTIP will be in line with scheme rules, or other applicable contractual documentation, and will be fully disclosed and explained in the relevant years annual implementation report.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage self-development and allow external insight and practice, the committee has determined that, with the consent of both the Chairman and the Chief Executive, executive directors may serve as non-executive directors of other companies in an individual capacity, retaining any fees earned.
How pay and conditions of employees were taken into account when setting the directors remuneration policy The group is geographically dispersed and therefore subject to very different pay markets.
As a result, it is difficult to make sensible comparisons with all employees across the group and the salaries of executive directors are therefore reviewed in line with the groups UK employees.
In December 2016, when the on-target salary increase for employees in the UK was between 1.25% and 3%, the Chief Executive received a salary increase of 2%.
As outlined in the policy table, the committee limits the range of salary increases for executive directors to the range of increases available to UK-based employees unless there has been a change of role.
The executive directors have a greater proportion of their total reward package at risk than other employees.
This means that in years of very good performance, the Chief Executives package increases proportionately more than that of other employees and conversely in years of lower performance it may be proportionately less.
The structure and principles of incentives are consistent further down the organisation.
The committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for two tiers of senior management below the executive directors and uses this information to work with the Company to ensure consistency of approach.
In addition, the committee approves all share-based LTIP awards across the group.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 83 The Company did not consult with employees when drafting this remuneration policy.
Employees are able to feed back their opinions through employee opinion surveys or directly to the Companys management.
Statement of consideration of shareholders views Each year the chairman of the committee invites our larger institutional shareholders to discuss with him their views on the groups remuneration, strategy and governance.
The feedback received and our response is detailed in the letter from the Chairman at the start of this report.
The committee chairman is available to discuss with shareholders any remuneration matters that will help shape our policy and practice.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Area Policy and operation Overall As we may need to recruit future executive directors from outside the UK or from companies with more aggressive incentive policies than our own, the arrangements below are intended to provide the necessary flexibility to recruit the right individuals.
For internal appointments, awards in respect of the prior role may be allowed to vest according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
In addition, ongoing prior remuneration obligations may continue.
The rationale for the package offered will be explained in the subsequent annual implementation report.
We apply the same policy for new joiners as for existing executive directors.
Salary Salary would be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate, based on their skills, experience and current remuneration, taking into account market data and internal salary relativities.
Relocation If a new executive director needs to relocate, the Company may pay: actual relocation costs and other reasonable expenses relating to moving house: disturbance allowance of up to 5% of salary, some of which may be tax-free for qualifying expenditure: school fees for dependent children where there are cultural or language considerations: medical costs for the overseas family, where relevant: one business class return fare per annum each for the executive, his her partner and dependent children in order to maintain family or other links where an executive is recruited from outside the UK: reasonable fees and taxes for buying and or selling a family home and or appropriate rental costs: and any tax due, grossed up, on any relocation-related payments listed above.
Buy-out awards In addition to normal incentive awards, buy-out awards may be made to reflect value forfeited through an individual leaving their current employer.
If a buy-out award is required, the committee would aim to reflect the nature, timing and value of awards foregone in any replacement awards.
Awards may be made in cash or shares.
Where performance conditions applied to a forfeited award, they will be applied to the replacement award.
In establishing the appropriate value of any buy-out, the committee would also have regard to the value of the other elements of the new remuneration package.
The committee would aim to minimise the cost to the Company, however, buy-out awards are not subject to a formal maximum.
Any awards would be broadly no more valuable than those being replaced.
Where possible, we would specify that 50% of any vested buy-out awards should be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Other elements Benefits, pension, cash STIP, deferred awards, LTIP and shareholding requirements will operate in line with the remuneration policy.
Non-executives Fees would be in line with the remuneration policy.
We would not pay to relocate a non-executive director to the head office location.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
