About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration Annual Statement The Committee considers Dear Shareholder that the bonus outturn I am pleased to present my ninth and and long-term incentive final Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, for the 2016 17 financial vesting reflects the strong year as Chairman of the Board performance of the Group Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee.
I will have served on the Board for nine years in February 2018 and will Mike Toms retire from the Board at the conclusion C hairman of the Board Committee of the AGM on 13 December 2017. on Executive Directors Remuneration Jill Caseberry will become Chair of the Committee following my retirement.
Over this period the Committee have sought to operate and continuously improve a remuneration structure Membership based on the three core elements of Director Date appointed to Committee Number of meetings attended during the year basic pay, annual bonus paid in cash and a share-based long-term incentive Mike Toms 1 February 2009 also date of 4 4 plan.
I believe that this approach has Chairman appointment as Committee Chairman aligned the management clearly with John Cuthbert 15 January 2010 4 4 the interests of shareholders, who Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 4 4 have seen operating profit rise from 51.3 million in 2009 10 to 571.6 million Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 4 4 in 2016 17.
Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 N A This is also the final year of reporting on Main focus in 2016 17 the current remuneration policy which Approve the bonus payments and long-term incentive awards vesting levels will expire at the AGM on 13 December for the 2015 16 year.
A new remuneration policy, set out overleaf, will be subject to a binding Approve the 2015 16 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM, and, Set the bonus targets for the 2017 18 year.
if approved, is intended to apply for three years.
Make awards under the long-term incentive scheme.
Review and determine the remuneration packages for the executive directors The Annual Report on Remuneration and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
and this Annual Statement will also be subject to a single advisory vote at the Review the new Remuneration Policy.
Review and determine the fee payable to the Chairman.
I set out overleaf a summary of the Review current market practice and future trends in executive remuneration.
pay outcomes for the 2016 17 financial Review remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
year, the key features of the new remuneration policy and how it will be Focus areas for 2017 18 implemented in 2017 18.
Oversee the successful transition between Mike Toms and Jill Caseberry as Chair of the Committee.
Approve the bonus payments and long-term incentive awards vesting levels for the 2016 17 year.
Approve the 2016 17 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
Set the bonus targets for the 2018 19 year.
Review and determine the remuneration packages for the executive directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Review remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
51 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued long-term incentive awards the This strong organic growth over Performance and reward Performance Share Plan PSP award recent years, coupled with Bellways in2016 17 and the final Share Matching Plan strong balance sheet and operational The housing market remains SMP award made in 2014 were capacity for further growth, has positive and these favourable market based on relative Total Shareholder resulted in a more geographically conditions, together with Bellways Return TSR performance against diversified business which, subject to strong operational focus and consistent two peer groups.
Bellways TSR market conditions, is well placed for execution of its growth strategy, has over the period was 40.7% and this further growth.
resulted in a 10.7% increase in the strong growth means that the upper The Board believes the current reservation rate and a 10.6% increase target was achieved against both management team is critical to the in housing completions, producing targets and 100% of the awards will evolution and implementation of the another set of excellent financial results.
vest, subject to the application of current strategy and to unlocking Bellways financial underpin test.
Full details of how Company future value.
It is essential that the The Committee has satisfied itself performance impacted the outcomes remuneration policy is competitive that the TSR performance properly for the bonus and long-term incentive but not excessive and that it rewards reflected performance over a awards are set out later in the Annual executive directors for strong and broad range of financial measures Report on Remuneration.
However, sustainable performance over the and the PSP and SMP awards will the main performance outcomes are long-term, but not for failure.
The policy vest in November and December summarised below: must also align both executive and 2017 respectively.
shareholder interests to retain, and, basic pay as disclosed in last years The Committee considers that the where necessary, attract individuals report, salaries were increased bonus outturn and long-term incentive who are able to successfully implement by 3% in line with the average vesting reflects the strong performance the Groups strategy and grow increases awarded to the rest of the of the Group and executive directors shareholder value.
during the twelve-month and threeannual bonus: year period to 31 July 2017.
Overview of the 2017 remuneration policy operating profit grew by 16.2% to 2017 proposed remuneration 571.6 million and this resulted Following a comprehensive review of in full payout under the financial policy remuneration in the year, supported element of the bonus 90% by its external advisers and following a of salary.
Context consultation with leading investors and proxy voting agencies, the Committee Since the Remuneration Policy was there was a 3.1% increase in plots determined that the 2014 approved approved by shareholders in 2014, with detailed planning permission policy remains effective, fair and fitthe Group has grown significantly and and this resulted in 15% of salary for-purpose.
Therefore, we have only become more complex as a result of being earned as a bonus.
proposed minor changes to the policy management successfully delivering the Groups health and safety to improve clarity and take account of the Groups strategy, focusing on incident rate, as measured recent developments in remuneration expanding and enhancing geographic externally by the NHBC, improved best practice: coverage by opening new divisions, further, resulting in a full payout of principally in regions where demand a key change is an increase to 7.5% of basic salary.
is high, and investing further in the shareholding guidelines from 100% existing operational divisional structure.
on customer care, Bellway was to 200% of salary which means we awarded 5 star homebuilder are now in line with market practice In recent years, operational capacity status by the HBF one of only in this area.
has expanded significantly and two national housebuilders the business now operates from 19 no changes are proposed to to be recognised at this level.
geographically spread trading divisions, the bonus or PSP limits at 120% The customer care score remained 6 of which have been opened since and 150% of salary respectively.
high, but the target was narrowly August 2013.
The Group opened its These incentive limits remain modest missed, and no bonus was newest division in Durham, on 1 August taking into account both the size awarded on this measure.
2016, with the 18th division opening in and complexity of the business and Coventry in February 2016.
These new this performance resulted in a total in the context of practice at other divisions have been making a positive bonus of 112.5% out of a maximum housebuilders and similar-sized FTSE contribution to completions and of 120% of salary and this will be 250 companies.
profitability, with the more established paid in November 2017. new divisions all performing well.
the two-year holding period will continue to apply for PSP awards.
The Group has successfully launched If approved by shareholders at the a new brand, Ashberry Homes, to AGM, this new policy will be effective maximise its sales potential.
It has made from 13 December 2017 until our a number of significant corporate 2020 AGM.
staff appointments to ensure that it is adequately resourced to manage a larger and more diversified business.
52 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information The proposed weightings ensure a increase, the LTIP award opportunity How we will implement strong focus on financial performance remains relatively modest against the proposed remuneration and sustainability through land bank comparable housebuilders and FTSE policy in 2017 18 at the same time as increasing the 250 companies of a broadly similar size.
From 1 August 2017, the Chairman, focus on customers, a key indicator of No changes are proposed to the future growth.
Chief Executive and Finance Director PSP performance metrics, with were awarded salary increases of 3%, Health and safety continues to remain awards based on two measures of consistent with the average salary an integral part of the performance relative TSR performance with half increase to the general workforce.
assessment and now has greater determined against the performance As announced on 14 August 2017, Ted potential influence on the bonus of other quoted housebuilders and Ayres has taken a leave of absence outcome than before.
the other half against the FTSE 250 from the Company to undergo index, excluding investment trusts and The Committee considered introducing treatment for a medical condition financial services companies.
bonus deferral but on balance felt and John Watson will assume the that this was not necessary taking As part of its remuneration review position of Executive Chairman during into account an unchanged bonus during the year, the Committee this absence.
opportunity which is modest by considered a number of other possible John Watsons salary as non-executive market standards, the continuation financial measures for use in addition Chairman had been set at 212,000 of a holding period on the long-term to TSR, including earnings per share from 1 August 2017.
He will receive incentive plan LTIP, a significant EPS.
On balance, an EPS measure an additional payment at the rate of increase in the share ownership was not felt to be appropriate at 100,000 p. a. for the period during guideline and greater focus on the PSP this time due to the difficulties of which he has additional executive from 2018, see below.
accurately setting robust long-term responsibilities in Ted Ayres absence.
financial targets given the cyclicality of The PSP award level for 2017 18 is This payment will be eligible for an the industry.
being increased from 130% of salary to annual bonus on the same terms as 150% of salary for executive directors, The Committee will keep this the executive directors.
John Watson which remains within the policy limit.
under review and will consult with will continue to receive life and health This increase provides a greater focus shareholders prior to the introduction benefits but not a contribution towards on incentivising long-term, sustained of an EPS or other financial measure in a pension or a car allowance.
He will performance and, in the Committees the future if it becomes appropriate at a not participate in the PSP.
view, is preferred to increasing the later date.
Jason Honeyman, who was promoted annual bonus opportunity.
I hope you will support the two to the Board as Chief Operating Officer Whilst the Committee is aware of the resolutions relating to directors on 1 September 2017, has a salary of sensitivity to increases in quantum remuneration which will be put to 383,000 which will next be reviewed in the current environment, it has shareholders for approval at the in August 2018.
He will participate in considered this proposal very carefully AGM to be held on 13 December the annual bonus scheme and PSP.
and believes that having a 150% of 2017.
Further information on these The benefits and pension contribution salary grant level reflects both the resolutions is set out in the Notice of he will receive are in line with the increased size and complexity of the Meeting of the AGM.
The 2017 18 annual bonus will continue The PSP has proven to be a valuable to be based mainly on financial Mike Toms instrument for successfully motivating performance, with a bonus of 90% Chairman of the Board Committee on Bellways executives in recent years Executive Directors Remuneration of salary based on operating profit.
and the proposed award level is The remaining bonus of 30% of salary appropriate to retain and incentivise 16 October 2017 will continue to be based on nona proven, high calibre senior financial measures as used last year, management team to deliver future with a bonus of 15% of salary on each success and long-term value creation of land bank and customer care, and for shareholders.
with health and safety performance taken into account as part of the When considered in the context Committees overall assessment of the of the presence of several best bonus payment.
practice features as set out above, the Committee believes the proposed The Committee would have discretion increase is fair and reasonable.
if, for example, health and safety standards have been unsatisfactory, or The Committee uses benchmarking there has been a major safety failure, to data with caution but notes that the reduce the overall bonus payment and current long-term incentive opportunity could, in exceptional cases, reduce the has fallen some way behind market overall bonus payment to nil.
levels and that, even with the proposed 53 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued This part of the remuneration report, Consideration of employment the Directors Remuneration Policy, has conditions elsewhere in the Group been prepared in accordance with The Whilst we do not consult directly Large and Medium-sized Companies with employees when drawing and Groups Accounts and Reports up the executive remuneration Amendment Regulations 2013. policy, in determining the elements of remuneration for the executive The overall remuneration policy has been developed in compliance with directors the Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, UK institutional of employees throughout the Group as a whole, paying particular attention investor guidance and the Listing Rules.
to the levels of basic pay increase The remuneration policy set out below awarded to the workforce generally.
will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 13 December 2017 Since 2015 the salaries of the directors and, if approved, is intended to apply have been increased in accordance for three years unless a new policy is with the general pay increase awarded put to shareholders before then.
Prior to that, the salaries of the recently appointed executive directors were below midDirectors Remuneration market value and were increased Policy incrementally until they reached midmarket levels.
Objectives of remuneration policy All eligible employees, including The aim of the Committee is to ensure the executive directors, can join the that the Company has competitive Groups savings related share option remuneration packages in place which arrangements, have life assurance will promote the long-term success of benefits and have access to pension the Company and motivate executive arrangements.
A significant proportion directors in the overall interests of of employees benefit from health shareholders, the Group, its employees insurance, a company car or car and its customers.
allowance and are eligible to participate The Committee has a policy of paying in a discretionary bonus scheme.
a level of remuneration comparable The Committee is apprised regularly of with that at a peer group of similar UK any significant policy changes for the housebuilding businesses, subject to workforce generally and management experience and performance.
below Board level in particular.
The Committee uses this comparative approach to benchmarking with Consideration of caution, recognising the relatively few shareholderviews direct housebuilding comparators, their differing size and the risk of an The Committee takes into account upward ratchet effect with any peerthe views of shareholders.
The structure of the significant changes are proposed to the package has been designed to ensure remuneration policy, the Chairman of that the performance-related elements the Committee will consult with major of remuneration annual bonus and shareholders and representative bodies long-term incentives constitute a in advance.
In setting the new policy in significant proportion of an executives the year, the Committee consulted with potential total remuneration package, major shareholders, the Investment but are only receivable if stretching Association IA and Institutional performance targets are achieved.
ISS who were generally supportive of the The structure of the performance proposed changes and the approach conditions for annual bonus and longbeing taken.
term incentives has been designed to provide a strong link to the Groups performance, namely a focus on maximising profit in a sustainable fashion and producing superior shareholder returns, thereby generating a strong alignment of interest between senior executives and shareholders.
54 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Policy table This section of the report describes the key components of each element of the remuneration arrangements for executive and non-executive directors.
Component and Operation Maximum Framework to assess link to strategy opportunity performance Salary To be market Salaries are normally reviewed in July each year No prescribed maximum.
In addition to the reviews by competitive and and changes normally take effect from 1 August.
the Chairman, as part of the Increases are normally in therefore assist in They are typically determined by reference annual Board evaluation, the line with the average for recruiting, retaining to market levels of a peer group of similar UK performance of the executives the workforce generally.
and motivating high housebuilding businesses, taking account of and the Company is kept under Increases may be quality executives.
salaries at other companies of a similar size, continuous review by the Board.
below or above this Reflects individual and by taking account of the role, performance, e. g. due to promotion, role and experience.
and experience of the individual, Company change in responsibility performance, salary increases throughout the or experience, role rest of the business and economic conditions.
change, or a significant Where salaries of new executive directors are change in the size, value positioned below market levels, the Committees and or complexity of policy is to progress these over time, with the Company.
increases potentially higher than for the general Salaries for 2017 18 are set workforce, as experience is gained, subject out in the Annual Report to performance.
Annual bonus To reward Annual bonuses are normally payable in cash 120% of basic The bonus may be based on achievement with in November following the year end on 31 July, salary maximum.
a combination of financial and a combination of subject to the achievement of performance strategic objectives, with financial financial and nontargets that were set at the start of the performance accounting financial operational financial year.
for a majority of the overall based performance bonus opportunity.
The Company operates a recovery mechanism targets in accordance which allows the Company to claw back some The Committee determines the with Group KPIs.
or all of the payments made under the variable choice of measure s and their components of an individuals remuneration, in weighting for each year to ensure the following circumstances: alignment with the Boards i material misstatement of results.
priorities and Company strategy ii error in assessing a performance condition.
over the short to medium-term.
iii gross misconduct by the individual.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the payment outcome to ensure it reflects the individuals contribution and or the overall performance of the Company over the performance period.
Details of the performance measures to be used for the 2017 18 year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
55 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Component and Operation Maximum Framework to assess link to strategy opportunity performance Long-term incentives PSP To encourage The Company operates a PSP as its primary long- 150% of basic salary.
PSP awards are subject to long-term value term incentive.
creation, aid Annual awards of nil cost options or conditional The current awards are subject retention, encourage awards may be made under the PSP to to relative TSR conditions against shareholding and the executive directors, at the discretion of relevant comparator companies.
For future awards the Committee of interests Awards normally vest three years after grant, may choose a financial measure, with shareholders.
subject to the achievement of stretching such as EPS, RoCE or NAV, performance targets.
in conjunction with or as an alternative to TSR depending Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be on the medium to long-term payable, and will only accrue during the vesting priorities of the Group at the time and holding period on awards that ultimately vest.
The Company operates recovery and withholding If the Committee decides to mechanisms which allow the Company, in introduce a financial measure, it exceptional circumstances, to clawback some or will carry out prior consultation all of the payments made, or recover unvested with major shareholders.
awards, in the following circumstances: i material misstatement of results.
The Committee has discretion ii error in assessing a performance condition.
to adjust the vesting outcome iii gross misconduct by the individual.
in exceptional circumstances to ensure it is a true reflection A minimum holding period of two years applies to of the overall performance awards post-vesting.
of the Company over the performance period.
Further details of the performance metrics applying to the awards for 2016 17 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension To provide a Pension contributions into the Companys Group Up to 20% of salary.
structure and Self Invested Personal Pension Plan and or a salary value that is supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Benefits To provide a range Typically comprises car or car allowance, life Not applicable.
and value that is assurance and health insurance.
may be provided where appropriate.
Any expenses incurred in carrying out duties will be fully reimbursed by the Company including any personal taxation associated with such expenses.
All employee share schemes To encourage The executive directors can participate in any Subject to prevailing Not applicable.
employees to build a HMRC-approved all-employee plans operated by HMRC limits.
stake in the future of the Company.
56 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Component and Operation Maximum Framework to assess link to strategy opportunity performance Share ownership guideline for executive directors To align executive Executive directors are required to accumulate Not applicable.
directors interests a minimum shareholding equivalent to 200% of with those basic salary.
Within a period of three months of appointment an executive director must acquire a minimum of 1,000 ordinary shares in the Company and must retain at least 50% of any shares awarded under the PSP or SMP in respect of awards granted in 2014 or before, after allowance for paying tax, until the requisite number of shares has been accumulated.
If personal circumstances make this difficult, the Committee would exercise discretion.
Chairman and non-executive directors To set appropriate The Chairmans fee is determined by the Board Not applicable.
The performance of the nonfees in light of the Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration.
executive directors is assessed time commitment, by the Chairman.
The senior The remuneration of the non-executive directors responsibilities, independent non-executive is determined by the Board Committee on wider market and director reviews the performance Non-Executive Directors Remuneration, which best practice.
of the Chairman in conjunction comprises the executive directors.
Fee levels are normally reviewed annually, taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles including membership or chairmanship of Board committees and the level of fees for similar positions in comparable companies.
Non-executive directors are not normally entitled to any benefits with the exception of the Chairman who receives health and life assurance benefits or pension.
They do not participate in any bonus or long-term incentive plans and they are not entitled to compensation on termination of their arrangements, other than normal notice provisions of three months given by either party.
Travel, accommodation and other related expenses incurred in carrying out the role will be paid by the Company including any personal taxation associated with such expenses.
57 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as in connection with the unvested SMP awards and the final SMP award which was granted in 2014, notwithstanding that the SMP does not form part of the Companys policy going forward.
Details of any payments made to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Choice of performance measures and approaches to target setting The performance measures used in the annual bonus and long-term incentive plan are aligned with the Companys KPIs and the business strategy.
For the annual bonus, operating profit is an appropriate barometer of short-term performance.
Customer care and land bank are important drivers of future growth and maintaining a strong health and safety record is very important to our employee base and the Group.
The Committee believes that relative TSR is an appropriate long-term performance metric as it generates an alignment of interest between executives and institutional shareholders by providing a reward mechanism for delivering superior stock market performance.
The TSR performance is independently calculated for the Committee by the Companys brokers.
Targets for incentive plans are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account internal and external reference points, including internal forecasts and market consensus.
Clawback The time period over which clawback will apply is at any time before the later of: i the first anniversary of the date on which an award vests.
ii the date of publication of the Companys first set of audited financial statements covering the financial year in which the vesting took place.
Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP in accordance with their respective rules.
As part of the rules the Committee holds certain discretions which are required for both an efficient operation and administration of these plans, and are consistent with standard market practice.
These include the following discretions: participants of the plans.
the timing of the grant of an award and or payment.
the size of an award and or a payment albeit with quantum and performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed in the policy table on page 56. the assessment of performance criteria and the determination of vesting.
discretion required when dealing with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring of the Group.
determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends.
the annual review of performance conditions for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year-to-year.
if certain events occur e. g. a material divestment or acquisition of a Group business, which mean the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate, the Committee retains the ability to make adjustments to the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings as necessary to ensure the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
the outstanding share incentive awards which are detailed in the tables on pages 65 and 66 will remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
In addition, all arrangements disclosed in previous reports of the Remuneration Committee will remain eligible to vest or become payable on their original terms.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
58 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Approach to recruitment remuneration In arriving at a total package and in considering the quantum for each element of the package, the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the candidate and the market rate for a candidate of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
Element General policy Detail Salary.
At a level required to attract the most Discretion to pay lower basic salary with incremental appropriate candidate.
increases, potentially higher than for the general workforce, as new appointee becomes established in the role.
In accordance with Company policies.
Additional benefits in relation to recruitment may be provided where considered appropriate, for example, relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and other recruitment-related costs may be payable.
Pension provision will be in line with the limits set out in the policy table.
In accordance with existing schemes.
Depending on the timing of recruitment, bespoke targets could be introduced for an individual within the maximum individual limits of the annual bonus plan applicable at the time.
Pro-rating would be applied as appropriate for intra-year joiners.
Long-term incentives In accordance with Company policies and An award may be made in the year of joining or, PSP.
maximum limits in the PSP rules.
alternatively, the award can be delayed until the following year.
Targets would normally be the same as for other directors and grant levels consistent within the permitted individual maximum under the rules of the plan and this policy.
Buyout of forfeited The Committee may make an award in cash or Awards would, where possible, be consistent with the remuneration.
shares to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited awards forfeited in terms of the vehicle, structure, vesting by an executive leaving a previous employer and, if periods, expected value and performance conditions.
required, by relying on the flexibility provided in the Listing Rules to grant such replacement awards.
Service contracts and loss of office payment policy The executive directors have service contracts with a 12-month notice period from the Company and a 6-month notice period from the executive.
The overriding principle for payments on loss of office will be to honour contractual remuneration entitlements.
The Committee would determine, on an equitable basis, the appropriate treatment of performance-linked elements of the package, taking account of the circumstances, in accordance with the rules of each respective plan.
Failure will not be rewarded.
The Company may pay statutory claims.
Reasonable costs of legal expenses incurred by the director may be reimbursed bythe Company by making direct payment to the professional adviser.
59 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued 1 2 3 Element Bad leaver Departure on agreed terms Good leaver Salary, pension and Nil.
Up to 12 months basic salary, Apart from death, the Company benefits after cessation benefits and pension.
may pay up to 12 months basic of employment.
salary, benefits and pension, less any Payments may be phased and period of notice worked.
subject to offsetting against alternative income from elsewhere Payments may be phased and during the notice period.
subject to offsetting against alternative income from elsewhere The Company may pay in lieu during the notice period.
of notice an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, pension The Company may pay in lieu and benefits.
of notice an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, pension and benefits.
For the proportion of the financial For the proportion of the financial year worked, bonus may be year worked, bonus may be payable payable pro-rata, subject to pro-rata, subject to performance, at performance, at the discretion of the the discretion of the Committee.
There will be no bonus payment in respect of any period of notice not worked.
PSP and SMP awards All awards, including those which Awards will lapse upon cessation of Awards may be exercised within granted in 2014 have vested but are unexercised will employment, unless the Committee 12 months of the vesting date.
lapse immediately upon cessation decides otherwise, in which case Where employment ends before of employment.
the vesting date, awards may be Where employment ends before exercised at the normal vesting time the vesting date, awards may vest other than by exception and only at the normal time other than by to the extent that the performance exception to the extent that the conditions have been satisfied.
performance conditions have The level of vested award will be been satisfied.
reduced, pro-rata, based upon The level of vested award will be the period of time after the grant reduced, pro-rata, based upon date and ending on the date of the period of time after the grant cessation of employment, relative to date and ending on the date of the three-year performance period cessation of employment, relative to unless the Committee, acting fairly the three-year performance period and reasonably, decides that such a unless the Committee, acting fairly scaling back is inappropriate in any and reasonably, decides that such a particular case.
scaling back is inappropriate in any particular case.
Depending upon circumstances, The Company may pay for the Committee may consider outplacement support and payments in respect of an unfair assistance with legal fees.
dismissal award, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees.
For example, normal resignation from the Company or termination for cause e. g. disciplinary issues.
This may cover a range of circumstances such as business reorganisation, changes in reporting structure, change in requirement for the role, termination as a result of a failure to be re-elected at an AGM, etc.
Leaver for compassionate reasons such as death, injury, disability or retirement, with the agreement of the employer.
The details of the executive directors service contracts are as follows: Executive director First appointed as a director Current contract commencement date Ted Ayres 1 August 2011 1 August 2011 Keith Adey 1 February 2012 1 February 2012 Jason Honeyman 1 September 2017 1 September 2017 The executive directors may accept external appointments provided that such appointments do not, in any way, prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
The extent to which any executive director is allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
None of the executive directors currently hold any outside appointments.
60 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with the Company for no more than three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the AGM, with a three-month notice period by either side.
The appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive directors provide that no compensation is payable on termination, other than fees accrued and expenses.
Non-executive First appointed Current letter of appointment Current letter of appointment director as a director commencement date expiry date John Watson 1 August 1995 1 February 2016 31 January 2019 Mike Toms 1 February 2009 1 February 2015 31 January 2018 John Cuthbert 1 November 2009 1 November 2015 31 October 2018 Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 1 August 2016 31 July 2019 Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 1 August 2016 31 July 2019 Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 1 October 2017 30 September 2020 Illustrations of application of current remuneration policy The remuneration policy results in a significant portion of remuneration received by executive directors being dependent on the Groups performance.
The chart below illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under three performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum.
The chart is indicative, as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Chart labels show proportion of total package comprised of each element.
Assumptions: Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension pay in lieu of pension.
Salary is based on actual for 2017 18, benefits are based on the value of actual benefits received in 2016 17 and pension pay in lieu of pension is based on policy of 20% of salary applied to the 2017 18 salary.
Target fixed pay plus 50% of maximum bonus payment plus PSP award of 150% of salary with 50% of the award vesting.
Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of maximum bonus payment plus PSP award of 150% of salary with 100% of the award vesting.
61 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 000 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration Committee membership andactivity The Committee meets at least twice a year and details of the Committee members and their attendance are set out in the table on page 51.
The operation of the Committee is conducted by reference to its terms of reference which have been prepared to comply with relevant statutory, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and best practice and are available at www.
None of the Committee members have a personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
There are no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Activities during 2016 17 While the main focus of the Committee this year has been on the new remuneration policy, the following activities have also taken place: approve the bonus payments and long-term incentive awards vesting levels for the 2015 16 year.
approve the 2015 16 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
set the bonus targets for the 2017 18 year.
make awards under the long-term incentive scheme.
review and determine the remuneration packages for the executive directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
review the new Remuneration Policy.
review and determine the fee payable to the Chairman.
review current market practice and future trends in executive remuneration.
review remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
The Committee receives independent external advice from New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by the Committee and does not provide any other services to the Company other than to the Board Committee on NonExecutive Directors Remuneration.
NBS is also a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by its Code of Conduct.
The Committee is satisfied that NBS is independent.
The total fee paid to NBS for advice to the committees during the year was 45,101.
The Committee also benefited from advice received from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, on issues other than those relating to his own remuneration.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors apart from the Chairman is determined by the Board Committee on NonExecutive Directors Remuneration, which comprises the executive directors.
It also receives advice from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and NBS.
62 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 17 The auditor is required to report on the information contained in the following part of this report.
K eith Adeys basic salary for 2015 16 was 361,000 and where reference is made in this report to his basic salary for 2015 16 this is the amount to which reference is being made.
The figure shown in the table above is the actual amount paid during the financial year, reflecting a reduction in his take-home pay during a period of paternity leave.
Taxable benefits include car allowance and health insurance.
P ension includes both payments in lieu of pension of 181,851 and contributions to a defined contribution scheme of 20,069.
None of the directors are members of the Groups defined benefit scheme and both of the executive directors are members of a defined contribution scheme.
T he value of long-term incentives in 2017 reflects the vesting of the 2014 PSP awards, which will be exercisable from 10 November 2017, including additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of grant to the date of vesting, and also the vesting of the 2014 SMP awards which will be exercisable from 4 December 2017.
The value shown is based on a share price of 29.59, being the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i. e. 1 May 31 July 2017 as a proxy for the share price at vesting.
The 2016 figures for Ted Ayres and Keith Adey have been adjusted by 127,822 and 73,757 respectively to reflect the actual share prices at the dates of vesting, which took place after the publication of last years report, and the additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of grant to the date of vesting of the 2013 PSP awards 3,806 and 2,169 shares respectively.
The additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued for the 2013 SMP awards were already included in the figure shown in last years report.
Other items refer to the discount on the awards, during the year stated, under the Groups all employee savings related share option scheme.
63 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Annual bonus for the year ended 31 July 2017 The annual bonus is payable in November 2017 for performance during the year ended 31 July 2017.
The performance targets for the 2016 17 bonus comprised operating profit and three non-financial measures.
The actual bonus payment against operating profit was determined on the following basis: Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Actual Payment Payment % of salary 39% pays 50% pays value 100% % of % of salary out out pays out maximum Operating profit pre-exceptional 90% 515.0 540.0 570.0 571.6 100% 90% million million million million The actual operating profit grew by 16.2% and exceeded the maximum value forecast by the directors, shareholders and analysts at the start of the year.
Since 2014 15 the payment of any bonus for non-financial performance has been based on a sliding scale of targets.
For land bank, a 10% payment would be triggered for a predetermined percentage increase in plots with detailed planning permission DPP, with an additional 1% payment for further improved performance, up to a maximum of 15% of salary.
Similarly, for health and safety and customer care there is a minimum payment of 4.5% for no deterioration in scores, with additional 1% increments payable up to a maximum of 7.5% for improved performance.
The basis for payment of the actual bonus against the three non-financial metrics that applied are set out in the table below: Non-financial measure Objectives and performance against target Score Land bank Increase in the land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the Maximum 15% following financial year in the year to 31 July 2017 to ensure our growth of salary.
aspirations are not frustrated by land shortages in future years.
The land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the following Achieved in full 15% financial year grew by 3.1% during the year.
This met the target required for of salary awarded.
Health and safety No deterioration of the NHBC health and safety incident rate from the Maximum 7.5% baseline as a minimum and additional payments made for improvements of salary.
in health and safety performance by reference to the NHBC health and safety incident rate.
Improvements in health and safety performance are indicated by a lower NHBC health and safety incident rate.
Our baseline NHBC health and safety incident rate was 0.986, which Achieved in full 7.5% represents a level of safety significantly better than other housebuilders.
The target for a maximum payment in 2017 was 0.986.
The actual rate was 0.690, which exceeded the target for a maximum payment.
Customer care No deterioration of previous years net assessment of customer satisfaction Maximum 7.5% score as a minimum, with additional bonus opportunity for improvement in of salary.
the Groups customer satisfaction score.
The Groups customer care score in 2017 was 85.2% compared with Not achieved no bonus 85.7% in 2016.
The customer care score remained high, but the target was payment awarded.
narrowly missed, and no bonus was awarded on this measure.
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the resulting bonus payment of 112.5% of salary out of 120% is reflective of the Companys record performance during the year.
64 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 July 2017 The PSP and SMP awards granted in 2014 which will vest on 10 November and 4 December 2017 respectively, were based on a three-year TSR performance for the period to 31 July 2017.
The applicable vesting percentages will be as follows: Metric Performance condition Threshold Stretch Actual % vesting target target 50% of awards Relative TSR against an index of peer 29.6% 37.1% 40.7% 50% housebuilders comprising Barratt TSR TSR Bellway Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Index Index TSR Bovis Homes Group PLC, Crest Nicholson 7.5% p. a.
Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc Index : 25% of this part of an award vests at the Index, increasing, prorata, to full vesting at Index 7.5% p. a.
50% of awards Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding 85.5 43 18 50% financial services companies and investment rank rank Bellway trusts : 25% of this part of an award vests at median upper rank median, increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at quartile the upper quartile.
Total 100% An underpin was also applied to the 2014 PSP and SMP awards.
Regardless of TSR performance, no part of an award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period, taking into account, inter alia, operating profit, operating margin, RoCE and NAV.
The Committee agreed that this underpin had been met and the following PSP and SMP awards are expected to be exercisable on 10 November and 4 December 2017 respectively.
Scheme Number of Guaranteed number Estimated value at 1 shares at grant of shares to vest vesting 000 Ted Ayres PSP 35,842 35,842 1,061 SMP 14,562 14,562 431 Keith Adey PSP 20,908 20,908 619 SMP 8,298 8,298 246 Notes: 1.
Based on a share price of 29.59, being the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i. e. 1 May 31 July 2017 as a proxy for the share price at vesting.
A dditional shares not included above will be awarded in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of the 2014 PSP award to the date of vesting in respect of each director as follows: Ted Ayres 4,009 shares and Keith Adey 2,338 shares.
For the SMP award the additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued will be calculated following the ex-dividend date of the final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2017, which is after the date of publication of this report.
Details of these additional shares will be included in next years report.
T he performance period was 1 August 2013 31 July 2016.
The TSR performance condition was in two parts.
Half was measured by reference to an index of UK housebuilders comprising Barratt Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc Housebuilders Index.
If Bellways TSR matched that of the index, 25% of the awards would vest.
Full vesting would be achieved for 7.5% per annum outperformance of the index.
The other half was measured by reference to the companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services companies and investment trusts.
Awards would start to vest at 25% if Bellways TSR matches the median of the companies in the Group, increasing on a straight-line basis so that full vesting would be achieved if Bellways TSR reached the upper quartile.
Regardless of TSR performance, no part of an award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period, taking into account, inter alia, operating profit, operating margin, RoCE and NAV.
Both parts of the performance conditions were met in full so 100% of these awards vested.
Details of the vesting of these awards which will take place in November and December 2017 is set out in full under the heading Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 July 2017 above.
T he performance period is 1 August 2015 31 July 2018.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance condition set out in note 1 above, and these awards are also subject to clawback provisions.
O n 9 November 2016, awards of performance shares under the PSP were made to Ted Ayres and Keith Adey.
The performance period is 1 August 2016 31 July 2019.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance condition set out in note 1, and these awards are also subject to clawback provisions.
The awards were in the form of nil cost options.
The face values on grant of these awards were 828,093 and 483,577 to Ted Ayres and Keith Adey respectively, equal to 130% of their respective salaries, in line with the current remuneration policy.
All of the above options set out in notes 14 were granted for nil consideration.
N o share options were exercised in 2017 and therefore the gross gain is nil.
The gross gain made by Keith Adey on the exercise of the 2003 SRSOS award in 2016 was 73,221.
The value of long-term incentive plans for both Ted Ayres and Keith Adey, which were exercised in the year and those which will become exercisable in 2017 18, are shown in the single figure of total remuneration table on page 63.
F urther details of the 2013 SRSOS are shown in the summary of outstanding share options in note 18 to the accounts.
T he market price of the ordinary shares at 31 July 2017 was 3,190p and the closing range during the year was 2,012p to 3,190p.
Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors in the year.
Payments for loss of office No payments were made for loss of office in the year.
Dilution limits shares held in Trust to satisfy awards The Bellway Employee Share Trust 1992 the Trust holds market-purchased shares to satisfy awards made under some of the Companys executive and employee share schemes.
At 31 July 2017 the Trust held 184,403 shares.
It is the Companys current intention to use market-purchased shares to satisfy awards made under the PSP and SMP.
Awards made under the deferred bonus plans to which the executive directors are not eligible must be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The SRSOS uses new issued shares.
The Companys share plans comply with the IA guidance on dilution limits and the position as at 31 July 2017 was: Limit of 5% in any ten years under all executive share plans Actual 0.00% Limit of 10% in any ten years under all share plans Actual 1.65% 66 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests The directors interests including family interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 July 2017 are set out below: Director Beneficially % basic salary held Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding Share options Share options owned at by executive owned at and unvested and unvested and unvested vested but exercised in 1 31 July 2017 directors in shares 31 July 2016 PSP awards SMP awards share options unexercised the year John Watson 425,535 N A 425,535 N A N A N A N A N A Ted Ayres 65,402 304 52,498 104,792 14,562 1,306 49,007 Keith Adey 35,450 282 18,526 61,178 8,298 1,538 28,988 Mike Toms 2,000 N A 2,000 N A N A N A N A N A John Cuthbert 6,000 N A 6,000 N A N A N A N A N A Paul Hampden Smith 12,548 N A 12,548 N A N A N A N A N A Denise Jagger 1,250 N A 1,250 N A N A N A N A N A Notes: 1.
Executive directors are required to accumulate a minimum shareholding equivalent to 200% of basic salary.
There has been no change in any of the above interests between 31 July 2017 and the date of this report.
Since the year end two directors have joined the Board.
Jason Honeyman has an interest in 4,252 shares and retains an interest in outstanding and unvested share options and awards over 31,589 shares.
Jill Caseberry joined the Board on 1 October 2017 and as at the date of this report holds no shares in the Company.
The following section of this report is not required to be audited.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 18 This section sets out how the Company will implement the remuneration policy for the 2017 18 financial year.
Full details of how each element will operate are set out in the remuneration policy table earlier in this report.
Basic salaries The Committee has awarded salary increases in line with the increases given to the general workforce of around 3% for 2017 18.
Therefore from 1 August 2017, Ted Ayres salary was increased to 656,000 p. a. and Keith Adeys salary was increased to 383,000 p. a.
On 14 August 2017 Ted Ayres took a leave of absence for medical reasons and John Watson moved from non-executive Chairman to Executive Chairman.
John Watsons fee as non-executive Chairman had been set at 212,000 from 1 August 2017.
He will be paid an additional fee at the rate of 100,000 p. a. in respect of his executive responsibilities during Ted Ayres absence.
This additional fee will be eligible for the annual bonus on the same basis as the executive directors.
It will not be eligible for pension payments, LTIP awards or a car allowance.
On 1 September 2017 Jason Honeyman was promoted to the Board as Chief Operating Officer and his basic salary has been set at 383,000 p. a.
Annual bonus For the 2017 18 financial year, the bonus opportunity will continue to be limited to 120% of basic salary.
The performance conditions relate to a stretching target of pre-exceptional operating profit with a maximum payment of 90% of basic salary achievable and the following strategic performance measures which provide a maximum bonus opportunity of 30% of basic salary.
Strategic measure Objectives Score Land bank Increase in the land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the Maximum 15% of salary.
following financial year in the year to 31 July 2018 to ensure our growth aspirations are not frustrated by land shortages in future years.
Customer care No deterioration of previous years net assessment of customer satisfaction Maximum 15% of salary.
score as a minimum, with additional bonus opportunity for improvement in the Groups customer satisfaction score.
The customer care element is assessed using the average of six key indicators, as measured by the NHBC.
This measure is used as it reflects the metrics by which the performance of each division is managed by the executives.
67 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued For each strategic element, sliding scale targets will apply whereby a proportion of the bonus will be payable if a base threshold is achieved, with further bonus paid on a sliding scale for improvements in performance up to the maximum bonus opportunity.
In the event that the threshold profit criterion is not met, no bonus will be payable under the non-financial elements.
Health and safety performance will be taken into account as part of the Committees overall assessment of the bonus payment.
The Committee would have discretion if, for example, health and safety standards have been unsatisfactory, or there has been a major safety failure, to reduce the overall bonus payment and could, in exceptional cases, reduce the overall bonus payment to nil.
This includes a possible reduction to the 2017 18 bonus in relation to the outcome of any health and safety investigation which has concluded in respect of the prior year.
Maintaining a strong health and safety record remains a critical objective and the new bonus structure provides for health and safety to have greater influence on annual bonus outcomes.
The actual annual bonus performance targets are considered to be commercially sensitive at this time, and the Committee will disclose these retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, provided they are no longer commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentives The Company anticipates making a grant under the PSP in November 2017 with a face value equivalent to 150% of salary to the executive directors.
Awards will vest to executives after three years, subject to the achievement of performance conditions based around TSR, which measures the total return on a notional investment in Bellway shares, compared to the return on the same notional investment in shares in a group of other companies or an index.
This award will be subject to a relative TSR condition with 50% of awards measured against a group of housebuilders and the other 50% against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies and investment trusts.
This is shown below: Metric Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target 50% of awards Relative TSR against an index of peer housebuilders TSR Index TSR Index 7.5% p. a. comprising Barratt Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc Index : 25% of this part of an award vests at the Index, increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at Index 7.5% p. a.
50% of awards Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding financial Median Upper quartile services companies and investment trusts : 25% of this part of an award vests at median, increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at the upper quartile.
Chairman and non-executive director fees from 1 August 2017 Fee from 1 August 2016 % increase Fee from 1 August 2017 Non-executive Chairman fee 206,000 3 212,000 Non-executive director fee 56,000 3 57,680 Senior independent non-executive director, Audit and Remuneration Committee Chair fees 8,000 3 8,240 The non-executive Chairman became Executive Chairman shortly after the start of the financial year on an interim basis while the Chief Executive is absent on medical leave.
John Watsons salary as non-executive Chairman had been set at 212,000 from 1 August 2017.
He will receive an additional payment at the rate of 100,000 p. a. for the period during which he has additional executive responsibilities in Ted Ayres absence.
On Ted Ayres return to the business the Chairman will resume his non-executive role and his fee will revert to 212,000.
The Companys Articles of Association specify an annual limit on non-executive director fees of 500,000.
This excludes the fees for the Chairman and additional fees payable to the senior independent non-executive director and to Committee Chairs.
Shareholder approval is required to amend this limit.
68 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Performance graph and table The graph below shows the TSR performance over the past eight years of the Company, the FTSE 250 Index and the bespoke Housebuilders Index as defined in note 1 on page 66.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as the most appropriate broad equity market index as the Company has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index over this period.
The bespoke Housebuilders Index has been selected as this index is used for the Companys long-term incentive plans.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 600 532 500 524 450 400 361 372 334 300 263 246 307 227 261 259 208 200 222 151 152 202 128 118 100 100 80 115 92 78 0 31 July 2009 31 July 2010 31 July 2011 31 July 2012 31 July 2013 31 July 2014 31 July 2015 31 July 2016 31 July 2017 Bellway Housebuilders Index FTSE 250 Index This graph shows the value, by 31 July 2017, of 100 invested in Bellway p. l. c. on 31 July 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and 100 invested equally in each of the housebuilders currently contained in the FTSE 350 Index excluding Bellway.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Chief Executive total remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same eight-year period as for the chart above, together with the percentage of annual bonus paid and the vesting of long-term incentives as a percentage of the maximum relating to the performance periods ending in that year.
J ohn Watson held the role of Chief Executive up until 31 January 2013 and Ted Ayres was Chief Executive for the remainder of the financial year from 1 February 2013 to 31 July 2013.
The total remuneration for the period as Chief Executive was 714,053 for John Watson and 528,500 for Ted Ayres.
Restated as per note 4 to the table on page 63.
69 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Total shareholder return rebased Governance Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration continued Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage change over the financial year in respect of the Chief Executives base salary, benefits and annual bonus compared to the average increase across all employees.
% change Salary Chief Executive 3 All other employees 3 Benefits Chief Executive 0 All other employees 2 Annual bonus Chief Executive 1 All other employees 4 Importance of remuneration relative to dividends and section 106 and CIL payments The table below shows the relative expenditure of the Group in respect of employee remuneration, dividends and section 106 and CIL payments, together with the percentage change in each, for the financial years ended 31 July 2016 and 31 July 2017.
The directors have chosen dividends and section 106 and CIL payments as comparators to employee costs as they consider that these demonstrate the relative importance of the remuneration of its employees to the returns the Group generates to shareholders and the contribution it makes to developing communities through section 106 and CIL payments.
Employee costs are calculated as wages and salaries, bonus and taxable benefits including the directors.
The dividend figures shown are the interim and final dividends paid or payable for the relevant financial year less forfeited dividends see note 7.
The section 106 and CIL payments figures are calculated from invoices received for these payments.
Statement of voting at AGMs The votes cast by proxy at AGMs in relation to resolutions regarding directors remuneration are set out in the table below: Directors Remuneration Policy Report of the Board on Directors binding vote at AGM Remuneration advisory vote at AGM on 12 December 2014 on 13 December 2016 Number % of Number % of of votes votes cast of votes votes cast Votes cast in favour 89,575,994 97.67 86,002,698 99.35 Votes cast against 2,136,039 2.33 561,858 0.65 Total votes cast 91,712,033 100.00 86,564,556 100.00 Votes withheld 1,132,868 N A 1,768,443 N A This report will be put to an advisory vote of the Companys shareholders at the AGM on 13 December 2017.
On behalf of the Board Mike Toms Chairman of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration 16 October 2017 70 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
