Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 69 R Die rec por tor t o sf R them e B uo na er rd a on tion Di Rre ec po tor rts Remuneration continued This report sets out our approach to remuneration for the groups employees and directors for the 2017 financial year.
Bridget Macaskill, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Statement from the Remuneration The new Policy therefore combines those elements that work CommitteeChair well for our business and are also seen favourably by our On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to shareholders, with a number of amendments aimed at present the report on directors remuneration for the 2017 increasing alignment with our business model, simplifying our financial year.
arrangements and bringing our structures into line with evolving best practice.
The key changes to our Policy are summarised 2017 has been a busy year for the Committee.
In addition to as follows: our routine activities, we have undertaken an extensive review of our Directors Remuneration Policy to ensure that this 1.
Simplification of long-term variable remuneration by remains appropriate and aligned to our distinctive business moving to a single long-term plan model and the interests of our shareholders.
The current LTIP and Share Matching Plan will be replaced with a single LTIP award.
Our revised Remuneration Policy In reviewing the Policy we have consulted widely with our larger The aggregate maximum opportunity under the current LTIP shareholders and institutional investor bodies and I would like and Share Matching Plan is 400% of salary for the group chief to thank all of them for their time and insightful input.
We have executive and group finance director, with a maximum of 200% also sought to take account of both external developments in under each component.
The proposed single LTIP award will the executive remuneration environment, the regulatory have a maximum opportunity of 350% of salary for the group landscape and broader market practice and internal factors chief executive and group finance director.
including talent progression and the remuneration arrangements for our broader employee population.
The increase in the maximum award from the LTIP component compensates the EDs for the removal of the Share Matching Following the review of our Remuneration Policy, we will be Plan but represents an overall 12.5% reduction in maximum seeking approval from our shareholders for a new Policy at opportunity compared with the value of the existing long-term our AGM in November 2017. arrangements.
We have noted the small resulting impact that this has on the balance between short and long-term We believe that the existing Remuneration Policy, approved by incentives and are comfortable that this remains appropriate.
our shareholders in 2014 but largely unchanged since 2009, In particular, the focus of our executives on the long-term is has worked well to date in incentivising strong business and reinforced by their very high levels of shareholding as set out financial performance and in aligning the interests of Executive on page 73, and we are also introducing a post-vesting Directors EDs with the groups shareholders.
This has been retention period on the LTIP and stronger deferral provisions reflected in strong performance and returns to shareholders over on the bonus.
However, the review this year identified that looking forward, the scheme for the next three years could be improved to increase alignment with our business model, market best practice and shareholder interests.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 70 Directors Remuneration Report continued As part of the review the Committee considered an even We are also making a minor adjustment to the bonus greater degree of simplification, through the replacement of opportunity for our group head of legal and regulatory affairs to both long-term awards with a single Restricted Stock Unit reflect market levels and bring the package more into line with RSU award and a further reduced maximum opportunity for peers whilst reflecting the nature of the role.
The maximum management to reflect the increased certainty this type of bonus opportunity from this year onwards will increase from award would provide.
We felt that there were material benefits 100% to 120% of salary.
to this approach given its simplicity and the alignment it provided with the business model.
As such, we had initial Further detail on these proposals are set out on pages 75 discussions with some of our very largest shareholders on this and 76. potential approach.
A number of our shareholders indicated strong support for this model, while others do not currently Subject to shareholder approval the policy will be effective from believe this approach is appropriate for the majority of the date of the AGM, which is due to be held on 16 November businesses.
Therefore the Committee has decided not to 2017. pursue this approach at this stage but will continue to monitor market views on RSUs and may reconsider this approach at Key external developments some point in the future.
A key external development during the year, the PRA and the FCA both confirmed that they would not comply with certain 2.
Changes to the performance measures on the annual provisions of the European Banking Authoritys remuneration bonus and long-term incentive award guidelines, in particular, the elements that would require Close This will create greater alignment to the business model and Brothers to apply a cap on variable remuneration of all Material the interests of our shareholders.
The Committee considers that the approach adopted by the UK regulators is pragmatic and will continue to Within the annual bonus we are replacing the personal allow Close Brothers to deliver competitive levels of objectives element with a common strategic scorecard in order remuneration, structured in a way that is more closely aligned to ensure a more consistent and transparent assessment of to our business model and the interests of our shareholders.
performance against key strategic objectives for the group.
How the group performed Within the LTIP we are replacing the absolute TSR The Committees approach to remuneration continues to be performance condition which a number of shareholders have centred around our business model and the performance we raised concerns about in the past with an RoE performance are delivering to our shareholders.
Close Brothers has a long condition.
While this is also a measure used in the annual established model which delivers consistency and resilience bonus, its use in a long-term context will create a greater focus through the cycle and is strongly aligned with shareholder on the creation of long-term sustainable returns for interests the group has been consistently profitable and shareholders and adherence to the business model, which is increased or maintained its dividend in every year since listing distinct from and complements its additional use as a shortin 1984. term measure.
The Committee considered a number of alternatives, however none of these were able to create the Our model is focused on sustainable lending, with a strong net same alignment to the business model or the interests of our interest margin and conservative underwriting, supported by a shareholders.
Adjusted EPS will remain the other key financial clearly defined risk appetite and a prudent approach to measure.
Risk and capital will also continue to be a key managing our business and financial resources.
component, reflecting the need to incentivise continued discipline in the delivery of the business model.
This is The group achieved another good performance in the 2017 common practice across financial services given regulatory financial year, with higher profits across all three of our divisions expectations and is subject to a robust assessment of and an overall increase of 13% in adjusted operating profit to performance by the Committee.
Adjusted EPS increased 3% to 131.7p 2016: 128.4p, reflecting the first full-year impact of the 3.
Introduction of a two year post-vesting holding period banking tax surcharge which came into effect in January 2016. on the LTIP This will increase alignment of EDs remuneration to industry Notwithstanding the impact of the tax surcharge, return on best practice and shareholder interests.
opening equity remained strong and towards the higher end of its long-term range at 17.9% 2016: 18.9% and well ahead of 4.
Changes to the deferral on the annual bonus the groups cost of capital.
The entire bonus will be subject to a fixed rate of bonus deferral 60% for the group chief executive and group finance director and 40% for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs to further align with industry and regulatory best practice and increase alignment with shareholder interests.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 71 The table below sets out an overview of our performance for the 2017 financial year and the context for the Remuneration Committee decisions taken this year with respect to remuneration.
Key performance indicator 2017 2016 Return on opening equity 17.9% 18.9% Adjusted operating profit million 264.8 233.6 1 Adjusted earnings per share growth 26.5% 53.8% Total shareholder return 2 per annum 10.1% 10.0% Distributions to shareholders 89.4 million 84.0 million 1 For the three year periods ended 31 July 2017 and 31 July 2016.
2 For the three year periods ended 31 July 2017 and 31 July 2016 based on the average three month share price prior to that date.
Adjusted operating profit in the Banking division increased 9% Changes to the board of directors during the year to 243.5 million 2016: 223.0 million, as we continued to In April Strone Macpherson retired after 13 years as a director, grow the loan book while importantly maintaining our strong of which nine were as chairman.
net interest margin at 8.1% 2016: 8.2% and prudent underwriting.
Winterfloods profits increased significantly to Senior management succession planning is a key focus of the 28.1 million 2016: 19.0 million benefiting from a strong directors, and following the retirement of Stephen Hodges this retail trading environment.
Asset Management achieved has been demonstrated through the successful transition of both good organic growth with 9% net inflows of managed leadership within the banking division.
assets, and higher adjusted operating profit at 17.4million 2016: 14.4million.
In line with our policy, the bonus award for Stephen Hodges followed the same approach as the other EDs but has been We also maintained our strong and diverse funding position, pro-rated to reflect his contribution to the business prior to his with total funding covering 127% 31 July 2016: 127% of the retirement at the AGM in November 2016, see page 72 for details.
Despite a significant increase in risk weightings as a result of new guidance from the European Finally I would like to thank my fellow members of the Banking Authority, our capital position remains well ahead of Remuneration Committee for their commitment and regulatory requirements with a CET1 capital ratio of 12.6% engagement in what has been a very busy year for the 31 July 2016: 13.5%.
I hope that you will find this report on the directors remuneration useful, understandable and clear.
Remuneration outcomes All our EDs achieved strong performance against their individual objectives within their balanced scorecard.
As we are Bridget Macaskill intending to move to a fully shared scorecard next year we Chairman of the Remuneration Committee have set out those objectives that are common to all EDs, with detailed disclosure for this year in the shared scorecard format.
26 September 2017 A summary of the EDs objectives and achievements is set out on pages 85 and 86.
There have been no significant changes to the pay or benefits structures for other groups of employees during the course of the year.
The average salary increase awarded across the group was 3%.
Average total compensation for employees across the group increased by 7%, primarily reflecting increased bonuses in Winterflood as a result of a strong trading performance.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued At a Glance Changes from the prior Remuneration Policy The new Policy contains a number of amendments aimed at increasing alignment with our business model, simplifying our arrangements and bringing our structures into line with evolving best practice.
The table below highlights the main changes from the prior Remuneration Policy.
Element Aspect Existing policy Changes to policy Rationale for changes Annual bonus Amount of Amounts exceeding 60% of entire bonus To ensure a significant proportion of the deferral 100% of base salary deferred for the group annual bonus is always deferred, irrespective deferred chief executive and of amount awarded.
This will create greater group finance director.
alignment to long-term sustainable business 40% of entire bonus performance and greater consistency with deferred for the group regulatory best practice.
head of legal and regulatory affairs.
Non-financial Based on performance Based on performance To ensure all EDs are working collectively performance against personal against strategic towards goals that support business measures objectives scorecard.
strategy while maintaining the ability to reflect differences in group functional roles.
This will also provide for greater clarity to shareholders in terms of how performance is assessed and linked to annual bonus outcomes.
SMP Inclusion in 200% of base salary Removed from policy.
To create greater simplification within policy the Remuneration Policy, in response to shareholder feedback.
LTIP Maximum 200% of base salary 350% of base salary for To reflect the removal of the SMP.
This opportunity group chief executive represents a reduction in quantum of longand group finance term remuneration from 400% to 350% for director.
the group chief executive and group finance 275% for group head director, and 325% to 275% for the group of legal and regulatory head of legal and regulatory affairs.
Balance of Financial 80% Financial 70% The weighting of measures has been financial and Non-financial 20% Non-financial 30% amended to ensure increased alignment non-financial to both the business model and regulatory measures expectations.
Post-vesting No retention period Two year post-vesting To meet increasing shareholder expectations retention period retention period and best practice in this area.
Executive pay for 2017 Set out in the table below is an overview of the key decisions taken on remuneration in the financial year.
Managing director and Group head of legal Chief executive Banking chief executive Group finance director and regulatory affairs 1 Preben Prebensen Stephen Hodges Jonathan Howell Elizabeth Lee Previous salary 540,000 485,000 408,000 330,750 Salary with effect from 1 August 2017 550,000 415,000 337,500 Percentage salary increase 1.9% 1.7% 2.0% 2017 bonus2 1,474,200 444,260 1,096,704 292,383 Percentage change in bonus from 2016 4.6 % 68.2 % 2.6 % 12.8 % 2017 bonus as a per cent of 2017 salary 273% 92% 269% 88% 2017 LTIP award3 1,890,000 1,362,000 700,000 4 Percentage change in LTIP award from 2016 12.5 % 13.0 % 12.5 % 2017 LTIP award as a per cent of 2017 salary 350% 334% 212% 1 Elizabeth Lees full time equivalent salary in 2018 increases from 367,500 to 375,000.
Her working pattern changed on 1 August 2016 to 90% of the full time equivalent.
2 Stephen Hodges 2017 bonus is a four month pro-ration following his retirement in November 2016.
3 Subject to approval of the revised Remuneration Policy at the AGM in November 2017.
4 2016 LTIP Award includes the matched share award under the discontinued SMP.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 73 The key measures that formed the Committees determination of the EDs remuneration are shown on pages 84 to 88.
The 2017 LTIP Award will be made under the new policy and as such, the awards are subject to shareholders approving the proposed policy.
EDs single total remuneration figures and shareholdings The charts below compare the EDs single total remuneration figures for 2016 and 2017 and the EDs shareholding versus 1 shareholding policy, as a percentage of salary.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 74 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the Report sets out the groups proposed Remuneration Policy for directors and explains each element and how it operates.
This section of the Report will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at our AGM in November 2017.
The reward structure aims to: attract, motivate and retain high calibre employees across the group: reward good performance: promote the achievement of the groups annual plans and its long-term strategic objectives: align the interests of employees with those of all key stakeholders, in particular our shareholders, clients and regulators: and support effective risk management and promote a positive client conduct culture.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Element and how it supports the groups short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Base salary Set annually based on the individuals role and None.
Attracts and retains high experience, pay for the broader employee calibre employees.
population and external factors, where applicable.
Reflects the employees role and experience.
Increases normally take effect from 1 August.
Increases will generally not exceed those for the broader employee population unless there is a change in role or responsibility.
Enables the EDs to perform their roles effectively by Health screening.
contributing to their wellbeing and security.
Provides competitive benefits Income protection cover.
Allowance in lieu of a company car.
The maximum allowance in lieu of a company car is 18,000 for the chief executive and 12,000 for the other EDs.
Other benefits provided to individuals in certain circumstances, such as relocation.
Pension For existing EDs a cash allowance in lieu of None.
Provides an appropriate and employer pension contributions equal to 22.5% competitive level of personal of base salary.
The maximum is 22.5% of base salary and the absolute values will only increase in line with any base salary increases.
New EDs promoted to the Board will receive pension contributions that are in line with the general employee benefit.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 75 Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Annual bonus Chief executive and group finance director Individual bonuses are determined based on Rewards good performance.
60% of the annual bonus will be deferred into both financial and non-financial performance group shares vesting in equal tranches over measured in the financial year, including Motivates employees to three years.
The remaining annual bonus will adherence to relevant risk and control support the groups goals, be delivered immediately in cash.
strategies and values over both the medium and The annual bonus is capped at 300% of Weightings long-term.
Chief executive director and group finance director 60% of the annual bonus will be Aligns the interests of Group head of legal and regulatory affairs based on financial performance.
senior employees and 40% of the annual bonus will be deferred into executives with those of group shares vesting in equal tranches over Group head of legal and regulatory affairs key stakeholders, including three years.
The remaining annual bonus will 40% of the annual bonus will be based on shareholders and increases be delivered immediately in cash.
retention for senior employees, through the The annual bonus is capped at 120% of base The non-financial performance for all EDs use of deferrals.
The lower maximum opportunity reflects will be determined based on performance the nature of this role.
measured against a balanced scorecard, including but not limited to : Dividends strategic objectives: Shares may be called for at any time up to people and customer metrics: and 12months from the date of vesting.
When the risk, conduct and compliance measures.
shares are called for, the ED is entitled to the gross value of accumulated dividends in respect The Committee maintains discretion to vary of the shares held under the deferred awards the measures and their respective weightings prior to calling.
The actual performance objectives will be set at the beginning of each financial year but will not be disclosed prospectively due to commercial sensitivity reasons.
They will be designed to align the interests of EDs with the key stakeholders over the medium term, be challenging and also provide an effective incentive for the EDs.
Performance against the objectives that comprise the balanced scorecard and their weightings will be disclosed retrospectively on an annual basis as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Amount payable for threshold performance No more than one third of maximum.
Recovery and withholding Deferred awards will be forfeited if the ED leaves employment in certain circumstances or is dismissed for cause before the relevant vesting date.
The cash element is subject to clawback and the deferred element is subject to malus and clawback conditions, as outlined on page 78.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 76 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Long Term Incentive Plan Awards are made in the form of nil cost options Measures and weightings Motivates executives to or conditional shares and vest after three years Individual awards vest after three years based achieve the groups longersubject to achieving performance conditions.
on performance against both financial and term strategic objectives.
On vesting, awards will be subject to a further Aids the attraction and two year post-vesting retention period before 70% of the award will be based on retention of key staff.
The remainder will be based on non-financial Aligns executive interests At the end of the retention period, EDs receive performance.
an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid on The Committee maintains discretion to vary vested shares during the performance period the measures and their respective weightings plus any additional time until the ED calls for the within each category.
award in the case of nil-cost options.
The choice of measures and their respective Chief executive and group finance director weightings will be disclosed annually as part of Eligible to receive an annual award of shares the Annual Report on Remuneration.
with a face value of up to 350% of base salary, excluding dividend equivalents.
Amount payable for threshold performance For each element of the award, vesting starts Group head of legal and regulatory affairs at 25% for threshold performance, rising on Eligible to receive an annual award of shares a straight line basis to 100% for maximum with a face value of up to 275% of base salary, performance.
The lower maximum opportunity reflects the nature of this The target ranges set for the financial role, which should have a higher percentage of measures in each grant and performance total compensation in fixed compensation.
against the targets at vesting will be reported in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial years.
Recovery and withholding The LTIP awards are subject to malus and clawback conditions, as outlined on page 78.
The LTIP awards will be forfeited if the ED leaves employment in certain circumstances or is dismissed for cause before the relevant vesting date.
Save As You Earn SAYE EDs have the option to save a fixed amount per None, as this is a voluntary scheme where Aligns the interests of month over a three or five year timeframe.
EDs have invested their own earnings.
executives with those of shareholders through At the end of the period employees can building a shareholding.
withdraw all of their savings, or use some or all of their savings to buy shares at the guaranteed option price.
The option price is set at the beginning of the participation period and is usually set at a 20% discount to the share price at invitation.
EDs can make total maximum contributions of 6,000 per annum, in line with HMRC rules.
The Committee reserves the discretion to increase the maximum contributions in line with any HMRC rule changes during the period of the Policy.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 77 Element and how it supports the companys short-term and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Performance framework, recovery and withholding Share Incentive Plan SIP EDs are able to contribute up to a maximum None, as this is a voluntary scheme where Aligns the interests of of 1,800 per year from pre-income tax and EDs have invested their own earnings.
executives with those of national insurance earnings to buy Partnership shareholders through Shares.
At present the Committee has determined that EDs have the ability to buy Partnership Shares.
Currently there is no match but the Committee retains the discretion to offer Matching Shares of up to twice the number of Partnership Shares.
This will be on the same basis for all employees should the Committee exercise this discretion.
Dividends paid on shares held in the SIP are reinvested to acquire further Dividend Shares.
The Committee reserves the discretion to increase the maximum contributions in line with any HMRC rule changes during the period of the policy.
Shareholding requirement Group chief executive and group finance None.
Aligns the interests of director: executives with those of Required to build and maintain a shareholding shareholders.
of 200% of base salary over a reasonable timeframe.
Group head of legal and regulatory affairs: Required to build and maintain a shareholding of 100% of base salary over a reasonable timeframe.
Other The group will pay legal, training and other None.
reasonable and appropriate fees, including any relevant tax liabilities, incurred by the EDs as a result of doing their job.
Legacy arrangements Historical LTIP and SMP awards granted under Refer to previous Remuneration Policy.
the previous executive Remuneration Policy approved at at the 2014 AGM will continue to operate in line with that policy.
The Committee reserves the right to allow awards to vest or make payments subject to arrangements that were granted or agreed before the individual became a director and not in contemplation of becoming a director.
Please refer to the at a glance section on page 72 for a table which summarises the changes to the Remuneration Policy from the prior year.
Additional details on the Remuneration Policy Rationale for choice of performance conditions The Committee selects financial and non-financial performance measures that strengthen the alignment of the remuneration arrangements to the business model and the interests of our shareholders.
With respect to the annual bonus, the Committee considers the balance between financial and non-financial measures to be appropriate.
Non-financial performance will be measured against a strategic scorecard a change from personal objectives, the purpose of this is to ensure that all EDs are working collectively towards goals in key areas strategy, people and customers and risk, conduct and compliance that support the business while maintaining the ability to reflect differences in group functional roles by varying the weighting of the scorecard components.
The actual performance targets will be set at the beginning of each financial year based on prior year performance, expected performance, strategic priorities for the year and other internal and external factors as appropriate.
All targets will be set at levels that are stretching but remain achievable within the context of this model and the broader external environment.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 78 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee can also make adjustments to performance targets to reflect significant one-off items which occur during the measurement period for example a major transaction, where it is deemed appropriate and reasonable to do so.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments within the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial year.
At maximum performance, the ratio of financial to non-financial measures for the group chief executive and group finance director across the annual bonus and LTIP is approximately two thirds.
The Committee believes this combination provides a good balance of financial and non-financial measures, supports the medium and long-term strategic objectives of the group and provides alignment with shareholders interests.
Malus and clawback The cash element of the annual bonus is subject to clawback for a period of three years from award.
The deferred element vests in equal tranches over three years, and is subject to malus prior to vesting and clawback for three years from the date of grant.
The LTIP and the previously awarded Matched SMP shares are subject to malus for the three year period to the point of vesting and are subject to clawback for four years from the date of grant.
Previously Invested SMP shares are subject to malus until vesting and to clawback for three years from the date of grant.
Malus Circumstances where it may apply The EDs employment is terminated for misconduct or the ED is issued with a formal disciplinary warning for misconduct under the firms disciplinary policy The firm suffers a material loss where the ED has operated outside the risk parameters or risk profile applicable to their position and as such the Committee considers a material failure in risk management has occurred The level of the award is not sustainable when assessing the overall financial viability of the firm In the event that one of these is triggered, the Committee may, at its discretion, defer and or reduce, in whole or in part any unvested award.
Clawback Circumstances where it may apply Discovery of a material mis-statement resulting in an adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of the group, or the audited accounts of any material subsidiary The assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was based on material error, or materially inaccurate or misleading information The discovery that any information used to determine the bonus and number of shares subject to an award was based on material error, or materially inaccurate or misleading information Action or conduct of a participant which, in the reasonable opinion of the board, amounts to fraud or gross misconduct In the event that one of these is triggered, the Committee may require the ED to repay all or part of a relevant award and any associated dividend equivalents.
Consistency of executive remuneration across the group The pay and employment conditions of employees within the group were taken into consideration when setting the policy and pay of the EDs.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees when setting the policy, although the employee opinion survey conducted every two years includes remuneration as one of the topics surveyed.
The principles of remuneration are applied throughout the group and are designed to support the groups key attributes across our businesses, which are expertise, service and relationships.
Remuneration structures and arrangements for employees other than the EDs are based on the individuals role, experience, performance and relevant market practice.
Annual bonuses for those other than EDs are based on role, business performance, market conditions and individual performance.
These bonuses are not capped, although highly remunerated employees have a portion of their bonuses deferred.
A limited group of senior employees receive LTIP awards, generally on the same basis as the EDs, but the maximum face value of these awards is generally materially lower as a percentage of base salary.
Members of the group Executive Committee who are not EDs are required to build and maintain shareholdings of at least one times base salary.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SAYE and SIP plans.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 79 Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy for EDs The scenario charts below provide illustrations of potential remuneration outcomes for our EDs, in accordance with our new Policy, based on the assumptions provided in the table below.
Element Assumptions used Fixed remuneration Consists of 2018 base salary, 2018 benefits and 2018 pension allowance.
Minimum No variable elements are awarded.
On target Annual bonus: Awarded at 200% of base salary for the group chief executive and group finance director and 90% of base salary for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs.
LTIP: Awards with face value of 350% for the group chief executive and group finance director and 275% for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs, and vesting at 73% average level of vesting for the five years up to and including 2016.
Maximum Annual bonus: Awarded at policy maximum 300% for the group chief executive and group finance director and 120% for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs.
LTIP: Maximum award with face value equal to 350% for the group chief executive and group finance director and 275% for the group head of legal and regulatory affairs.
Other No adjustment for share price growth or dividends paid.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The remuneration package for new EDs will comply with the Remuneration Policy for EDs outlined on pages 74 to 77.
The Committee will seek to pay no more than is necessary to secure the right candidate.
The Committee may seek to buy out remuneration that the director forfeits as a result of joining the group.
In such cases, the Committee will seek to replace this with awards that match the quantum and terms of the forfeited awards as closely as possible.
There may be situations where a new director has to relocate in order to take up the post with the group.
In such situations reasonable financial and or practical support will be provided to enable the relocation.
This may include the cost of any tax that is incurred as a result of the move.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 80 Directors Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and policy for payment on loss of office Standard provision Policy Details Notice period 12 months notice from the company.
EDs may be required to work during the notice period, 12 months notice from the ED.
may be placed on garden leave or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full period.
All EDs are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Compensation for loss of No more than 12 months salary, pension Payment will be commensurate with the companys office in service contracts allowance and benefits.
legal obligations and we will seek appropriate mitigation of loss by the ED.
Treatment of annual bonus The standard approach is no payment The Committee may award a pro-rated bonus to EDs on termination unless employed on date of payment.
who work for part of the year or are good leavers as determined by the Committee in certain circumstances, although there is no automatic entitlement.
Good leaver status may be granted in cases such as death, disability or retirement.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of a good leaver in line with performance, the circumstances of the termination, and the malus conditions outlined in the policy table.
The Committee also has the ability to recover annual bonuses in line with the clawback conditions outlined in the policy table.
Treatment of unvested The Committee has the discretion under Where the director is designated a good leaver, deferred awards under the the relevant plan rules to determine awards vest in full over the original schedule and annual bonus plan and any whether good leaver status should be remain subject to the malus conditions.
previous Invested SMP applied on termination.
The deferred shares are released in full in the event of Shares The current approach provides that a change in control.
discretion may be afforded in cases such Awards lapse in the event the employee is declared as death, disability, retirement, redundancy bankrupt, joins another financial services company or mutual separation.
within 12 months of termination unless this condition is waived under good leaver status, or leaves and is not designated a good leaver.
These are also subject to the clawback conditions.
Treatment of the LTIP and All awards lapse except for good leavers.
For good leavers, vesting is pro-rated for the period any previous Matched The Committee has the discretion under of employment during the performance period.
SMP Shares the relevant plan rules to determine how Vesting is subject to the achievement over the original good leaver status should be applied performance period against the performance targets on termination.
and is on the original schedule.
The current approach provides that Awards remain subject to the malus and clawback discretion may be afforded in cases such conditions.
as death, disability, retirement, redundancy In the event of a change in control, the awards will vest or mutual separation.
subject to the service factor and the achievement against the performance targets at that point.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to increase the amount vesting depending on the circumstances of the change in control.
Outside appointments EDs may accept external appointments.
Board approval must be sought before accepting the appointment.
The fees may be retained by the director.
Chairman and nonEngaged under letters of appointment for All non-executive directors are subject to annual executive directors terms not exceeding three years.
Renewable by mutual agreement and can No compensation is payable if required to stand be terminated on one months notice.
Other The company may pay settlement payments, legal, training and outplacement fees incurred on exit, if appropriate.
Other notable provisions in There are no other notable provisions in service contracts the service contracts.
Copies of the directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the groups registered office.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 81 Dates of EDs service contracts Name Date of service contract Preben Prebensen 9 February 2009 Jonathan Howell 8 October 2007 Elizabeth Lee 1 August 2012 Remuneration Policy for the chairman and independent non-executive directors Element and how it supports the groups shortterm and long-term strategic objectives Operation and maximum payable Fees Fees are paid in cash and are reviewed periodically.
Attract and retain a chairman Fees for the chairman and non-executive directors are set by the board.
The non-executive and independent non-executive directors do not participate in decisions to set their remuneration.
directors who have the requisite The chairman of the board receives a fee as chairman but receives no other fees for skills and experience to chairmanship or membership of any committees.
determine the strategy of the Non-executive directors receive a base fee.
group and oversee its The senior independent director receives an additional fee for this role.
Additional fees are paid for chairmanship of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Additional fees are paid for membership of committees, with the exception of the Nomination and Governance Committee, for which no additional fees are payable.
The chairman and non-executive directors are entitled to claim reimbursement for reasonable expenses and associated tax liabilities incurred in connection with the performance of their duties for the company, including travel expenses.
Overall aggregate fees will remain within the 1 million authorised by our articles of association.
There is no performance framework, recovery or withholding.
Non-executive directors appointment letters Name Date of appointment Current letter of appointment start date Oliver Corbett 3 June 2014 17 November 2016 Geoffrey Howe 4 January 2011 17 November 2016 Lesley Jones 23 December 2013 17 November 2016 Bridget Macaskill 21 November 2013 17 November 2016 Mike Biggs 14 March 2017 14 March 2017 Consideration of shareholders views The chairman of the board consults our major shareholders on a regular basis on key issues, including remuneration.
The Committee took issues of concern raised by shareholders in prior years into account when determining the Policy.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 82 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Committee roles and responsibilities The Committees key objectives are to: determine the overarching principles and parameters of the Remuneration Policy on a group-wide basis: establish and maintain a competitive remuneration package to attract, motivate and retain high calibre EDs and senior management across the group: promote the achievement of the groups annual plans and strategic objectives by providing a remuneration package that contains appropriately motivating targets that are consistent with the groups risk appetite: and align senior executives remuneration with the interests of shareholders.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: review and determine the total remuneration packages of EDs and other senior executives in consultation with the chairman and chief executive and within the terms of the agreed Policy: approve the design and targets of any performance related pay schemes operated by the group: review the design of all employee share incentive plans: ensure that contractual terms on termination and any payments made are fair to the individual and the group, that failure is not rewarded and that a duty to mitigate risk is fully recognised: review any major changes in employee benefits structures throughout the group: select, appoint and determine terms of reference for independent remuneration consultants to advise the Committee on Remuneration Policy and levels of remuneration: ensure that the remuneration structures in the group are compliant with the rules and requirements of regulators, and all relevant legislation: ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration are fulfilled: and seek advice from group control functions to ensure remuneration structures and annual bonuses are appropriately aligned to the groups risk appetite.
Membership The Committee comprises Bridget Macaskill as chairman, together with each of the other independent non-executive directors.
Seven meetings were held during the year and a record of attendance at meetings is set out on page 56.
The chairman of the board, group chief executive, group head of human resources and the head of reward and HR operations also attend meetings by invitation.
Activity in the 2017 financial year The Committee has a standing calendar of items within its remit, and these were addressed during the year.
In addition to these standing items, the main focus of the Committee was developing the new executive Remuneration Policy, however other significant issues that the Committee discussed during the year were as follows: the review of the annual bonus targets and objectives for EDs: assessment of the vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Share Matched Plan SMP awards: regular reviews of regulatory and legislative changes and developments: review of the monitoring and management information for employee sales incentive schemes in the group: and the annual performance, salary and variable remuneration review.
Implementation of new Policy We have set out below the implementation of the Policy as it relates to the 2018 financial year.
Base salary Salary effective from 1 August 2017 Percentage Increase Group Chief Executive 550,000 1.9% Group Finance Director 415,000 1.7% Group Head of Legal and Regulatory Affairs 337,500 2.0% These were determined with reference to the EDs role and experience, increases for the broader population and external factors.
The Committee determined that it was appropriate for the EDs salary increases to be lower than the average for the general employee population of approximately 3%.
The EDs will receive benefits in line with those outlined in the Remuneration Policy table on page 74.
There will be no increases to the allowances for benefits other than any potential increase of providing them.
The EDs will continue to receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension equivalent to 22.5% of base salary.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 83 2018 Annual bonus i. e. bonus awarded in respect of the 2018 performance year Weightings Vesting ranges Group chief executive and group Group head of legal Nature of measures Choice of measures Targets finance director and regulatory affairs All 60% 40% Financial RoE 12 to 20% Threshold 33%1 Maximum 100% Non-financial Strategic scorecard: Discretionary 40% 60% Minimum 0% Strategic objectives assessment Maximum 100% People and customer Risk, conduct and compliance 1 Performance below threshold on the RoE measure would result in zero vesting of the financial measure.
The annual bonuses will be subject to the caps and based on assessment against the performance measures outlined in the Remuneration Policy table on page 75.
Because of commercial sensitivity, the details of the performance targets and achievement against those will be outlined in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2017 LTIP i. e. LTIP awarded in respect of the 2018 to 2020 cycle Nature of measures Choice of measures Targets Weightings Vesting ranges Financial Adjusted EPS growth 10 to 30% over 3 years 35% Threshold 25% Maximum 100% RoE 12 to 20%1 35% Threshold 25% Maximum 100% Non-financial Risk management objectives Discretionary assessment 30% Threshold 25% against detailed goals Maximum 100% 1 Average over three year performance period.
The LTIP awards will be subject to the caps outlined in the Remuneration Policy table on page 76 and determined in line with the targets shown in the table above.
The Committee believes these targets are appropriately stretching and effectively align the EDs interests with those of shareholders.
Because of commercial sensitivity, the details of the performance targets and achievement against those for the risk management objectives will be outlined in the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration.
2 The figures for the performance awards for 2016 have been re-calculated using the actual share price on the dates of vesting for the LTIP and Matched SMP shares of13.74.
The three month average to 31 July 2016 was used for the 2016 report given that the awards were vesting after publication of the report.
3 The figures for the performance award for 2017 have been calculated using the three month average to 31 July 2017.
4 Stephen Hodges retired from the board in November 2016 and his bonus has been pro-rated accordingly.
He has continued to receive salary and benefits during his notice period.
Link between reward and performance The groups financial results have been good this year, and over the past three years.
Adjusted operating profit has increased 13% in the year to 264.8 million, and it has grown 32% or 10% per annum compounded over the last three financial years on a reported basis.
Notwithstanding the increase in the tax rate, RoE remains strong at 17.9% compared to 18.5% in 2014. Dividend growth was 5% this year, with dividend cover remaining at 2.2 times up from 2.1 times in 2014.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 84 Directors Remuneration Report continued The strong RoE has been reflected in the EDs bonuses, with the element of the bonus determined based on RoE being 86% of the potential maximum.
The adjusted EPS growth of 26.5% over the last three years has resulted in the EPS element of the LTIP vesting at 55.8%.
The compounded TSR of 10.1% per annum has met the threshold target under the LTIP and vested at 25.6%.
The continued prudent approach to capital management combined with a good performance in risk, compliance and controls mean that the risk management objectives element vested at 92.1%.
As a result, the LTIP will vest at 51.0% this year see page 89 for further details.
Additional disclosures on the single total remuneration figure for EDs table Audited Salary The per annum salaries paid during the year are as shown in the single total remuneration figure table shown on page 83.
There were no increases between 2016 and 2017.
When reviewing salary levels, the Committee takes into account the individuals role and experience, pay for the broader employee population and external factors, where applicable.
The salary increases awarded to EDs for the 2018 financial year are lower than the average increase for the general employee population which is 3%.
Benefits The EDs each received an allowance in lieu of a company car.
Preben Prebensen received 18,000 while the others received 12,000.
These allowances have not been increased since 2012.
They also received private health cover.
The discount to the share price on grant of SAYE options is included in the year of grant.
Pension The EDs all received a monthly cash pension allowance equivalent to 22.5% of base salary.
They do not receive any additional pension provision.
Annual bonus: Achievement against targets The bonuses for EDs were determined with reference to RoE targets and stretching personal goals relevant to each EDs role and business accountabilities.
The RoE for the 2017 financial year was 17.9% against a maximum target of 20%, warranting an award of 86.0% of the potential maximum bonus for this element.
Any annual bonus above the level of the 2017 base salary was deferred into group shares vesting in equal tranches over three years in line with the 2014 Remuneration Policy.
Achievement against annual bonus targets Financial target RoE Personal objectives Potential Threshold Target maximum Actual RoE Actual Actual Total 33.33% of 66.67% of 100% of 86.0% of amount Potential Actual amount bonus potential potential potential potential awarded maximum per cent awarded awarded Name Weighting maximum maximum maximum maximum 000s Weighting 000s awarded 000s 000s Preben Prebensen 60% 12% 15% 20% 17.9% 836 40% 648 98.5% 638 1,474 Stephen Hodges 60% 12% 15% 20% 17.9% 250 40% 194 100.0% 194 444 Jonathan Howell 60% 12% 15% 20% 17.9% 632 40% 490 95.0% 465 1,097 Elizabeth Lee 40% 12% 15% 20% 17.9% 114 60% 198 90.0% 178 292 Annual bonus: Personal goals for the 2017 financial year Under the current policy, performance for each individual is assessed against a range of personal objectives.
These objectives are agreed with the Committee at the start of each financial year and are designed to be stretching for the individual and the business, while maintaining consistency and stability in the groups strategy, business model and performance.
The Committee undertakes a rigorous assessment of each individuals contribution against these objectives in determining the outcomes for the annual bonus.
Shareholders will note that the Committee is proposing to replace the personal objectives with a shared strategic scorecard, which includes measures relating to strategy: people and customers: and risk, compliance and conduct and which will be common to all EDs.
This remains subject to shareholder approval.
The table on page 86 sets out examples of the personal objectives which were in place in 2017, performance against these objectives and an overview of the factors that the Committee has taken into account when assessing the performance of the executives.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, not all performance criteria can be disclosed.
Where the objectives are common to EDs, they have been shown under the headings of the new proposed strategic scorecard.
These disclosures have been further supplemented by an additional table providing further assessment against the individual EDs objectives.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 85 Performance against group-wide ED objectives Element Objective Performance Extent to which target has been met Strategic Adherence to the lending Strong NIM of 8.1% The group has demonstrated model Bad debt 0.6% ten year range of 0.6% strong adherence to the to 2.6% lending model despite Return on net loan book at 3.6% typical competitive pressures with all range 3.0% to 3.7% key metrics within range in Underwriting criteria maintained e. g. average particular clear discipline on motor LTVs remained within range of 75% underwriting criteria and a very to85% strong return on net loan book Moderating loan book growth of 7% ten year range of 6% to 23% Maintain prudent levels of CET1 capital ratio 12.6% vs fully loaded Prudent position maintained capital funding and liquidity regulatory requirement of 9.1% with CET1 capital ratio Average duration of funding allocated to loan remaining comfortably ahead book at 21 months vs loan book at 14 of regulatory requirements Continue to comfortably meet the liquidity notwithstanding regulatory coverage ratio requirements increase in RWA.
Borrow long lend short funding approach and diversity of funding position maintained Maintain investment while Group expense income ratio 60% Excellent performance controlling costs 2016: 61% maintaining a stable expense Banking division expense income ratio 49% income ratio whilst executing 2016: 49% multiple investment programmes Identify new products and Good progress has been made across the group, notably the launch of adjacent market technology leasing services, acquisition of Novitas, a specialist provider of opportunities loans to the legal sector, and regulatory approval to operate a branch in Ireland and a further subsidiary in Germany People and Maintain strong employee In 2017 90% of employees were satisfied Very high levels of employee customer engagement working for the group 2015: 88% engagement have been maintained Achieve high customer Strong Net Promoter Scores e. g. NPS Strong levels of customer satisfaction Treasury 72, Motor 58.7.
High levels of satisfaction has been repeat business from our Commercial maintained Finance customers e. g. asset finance 72% and Property Finance 75%.
Continued low levels of customer complaints.
Extensive primary research conducted with significant numbers of intermediaries and customers, beyond that covered by standard customer surveys Risk Preserved strong The group has operated within its risk Group continues to operate conduct and compliance with risk appetite within its risk appetite and has compliance appetite, legal and No material negative issues identified by Risk maintained a strong culture of regulatory obligations or Audit Committee during the year good conduct and regulatory across the group Brexit forum established awareness General Data Projection Regulation GDPR project initiated 100% of relevant staff completing mandatory regulatory training Performance objective has been achieved Satisfactory outcome, further progress to be made Performance objective has not been met Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 86 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance against individual ED objectives Executive Director Objective Performance in 2016 and extent to which the Committee judged performance criteria had been met Preben Prebensen Overall performance of Strong overall performance with adjusted operating profit growth of thegroup 13% to 264.8 million including increases of 24% in the Property Finance segment and strong loan book growth rates in premium finance.
Significant progress in Asset Management with net inflows of 9% and a 21% increase in AOP.
Strong trading performance at Winterflood with operating profit up almost 50% and only one loss day.
Progress key investment Strong performance, with multiple material investment projects projects progressing on time and within budget including delivery of new contact centre, customer portal and e-signature capability in premium finance: design work complete for new treasury deposit platform and customer relationships management system in the Banking division: successful migration to a single platform in Asset Management and successful launch of new technology platform in Winterflood Business Services.
Conduct strategic review Successfully completed a strategic review of the motor finance of the motor finance business and initiated an investment programme to improve the business service proposition, streamline operational processes and improve sales effectiveness.
Ensure the smooth The transition to the new board and management structure in the transition of leadership in Banking division was successfully executed with regulatory approvals the Banking division and management of key individuals.
Senior Managers Regime responsibilities have been transferred to the group chief executive and organisation is operating very effectively with the new structure.
Jonathan Howell Accurate, appropriate, Consistently high quality, clear and accurate reporting with significant clear and timely reporting enhancements to segmental reporting made during the year.
Positive feedback received from the Audit Committee, external auditor, analysts and shareholders.
Assume oversight Achieved smooth and effective transition of treasury function, responsibility for the establishing a strong working relationship with group treasurer and wider treasury function team, and successful oversight of tier 2 issuance with effective collaboration between finance, investor relations and treasury functions.
Execute effective audit Oversaw effective tender process, resulting in unanimous decision to tender recommend appointment of PwC.
Positive feedback from Audit Committee throughout the process.
Manage group capital Robust capital planning ensuring continued sound capital position, absorbing impact of RWA increase during the year, and continuing to meet expectations of regulators, shareholders, creditors and rating agencies.
Elizabeth Lee Provide leadership on key Provided strong and effective leadership and support to the business legal and regulatory issues on all legal and regulatory issues, in particular on regulatory and governance aspects of the chairman and Banking chief executive succession, extension of the Senior Managers Regime to Asset Management and establishment of the GDPR project.
Strengthen capability and Achieved a smooth and effective restructuring of the compliance, succession in key control company secretarial and group legal functions to improve capability and support functions and succession.
Ensure the groups Delivered extension of insurance to cover data breaches and insurance provision cyber crime.
remains appropriate Stephen Hodges Overall performance of Delivered effective and consistent leadership of the Banking division, theBanking division overseeing strong performance in the first quarter of the year.
Ensure the smooth The transition of responsibility to Preben Prebensen for direct oversight transition of the Banking of the Banking division, to Adrian Sainsbury for the lending businesses chief executive role and to Jonathan Howell for treasury was completed successfully.
Performance objective has been achieved Satisfactory outcome, further progress to be made Performance objective has not been met Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 87 Performance awards The performance awards in the single total figure of remuneration include the 2014 LTIP grant and the 2014 Matched SMP Shares.
Both of these will vest on 30 September 2017.
The performance targets for the 2014 awards vesting in 2017 were weighted 40% adjusted EPS, 40% absolute TSR and 20% risk management objectives.
The adjusted EPS targets were RPI 3% per annum to RPI 10% per annum and the absolute TSR targets were 10% per annum to 20% per annum.
Compounded adjusted EPS growth over the three year period to 2017 was a good 8.2% per annum, while the TSR was 10.1% per annum, meaning the EPS element will vest at 55.8% and the TSR element will vest at 25.6%.
The risk management objectives of the 2014 LTIP and Matched SMP Shares were assessed at 92.1% by the Committee.
More details on the rationale for the assessment are provided in the table on page 88.
Accordingly, the 2014 LTIP and Matched SMP Shares will vest at 51.0%.
The LTIP and SMP awards vested at 67.9% in 2016.
The share price for the LTIP and Matched SMP Shares increased by 7% over the three year period from the date of grant to the end of the performance period.
The average share price used to value the awards due to vest in October 2017 was 1,560.5p from 2 May 2017 to 31 July 2017, which was the performance measurement period.
The 2014 LTIP and SMP awards were originally granted at 1,429.4p.
While the increase in share price remains positive over the performance period, the single total figures of remuneration for the EDs are down from the previous year, primarily due to the slowdown in share price growth.
The performance awards also include the amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid during the period from the beginning of the performance period to the time that the awards vest.
The Committee assessed performance against the risk management objectives after each of the three years of the LTIP performance period.
The results of each assessment are shown in the table below.
Details of the assessment of the risk management objectives for the LTIP and SMP The Committee considers it to be of critical importance to ensure that remuneration arrangements continue to incentivise discipline in the management of the firms capital and balance sheet and in the delivery of the business model.
The Committee undertakes a robust assessment of performance against the risk management objectives to ensure that payments to EDs are fair and appropriate with consideration for individual and corporate performance.
In doing so, the Committee assesses performance against a number of key measures in making its determination.
Performance was assessed after each of the three years of the LTIP performance period, with each years review carrying a weighting of one third towards the overall vesting for the award, ensuring a fair assessment of progress over the three year period.
The results of each assessment are shown in the table below and we have also set out examples of the risk management objectives for year three including enhanced disclosure on how the Committee applied its judgement to determine year threes vesting outcome on page 88.
Element Year one assessment Year two assessment Year three assessment Overall vesting Capital and balance sheet management 100% 100% 100% 100% Risk, compliance and controls 80% 85% 87.5% 84.2% Overall vesting 92.1% Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 88 Directors Remuneration Report continued Year three performance assessment Element Measure Extent to which the Committee determined the target has been met Capital and balance Capital requirements CET1 capital ratio of 12.6% remains significantly ahead of fully-loaded sheet management minimum requirement of 9.1%.
Successful issue of 175 million of tier2 capital increasing total capital ratio to 15.2%.
Dividend payout Full year dividend increased 5% with strong dividend cover at 2.2x, consistent with the groups progressive dividend policy.
Funding Term funding increased to 4.8 billion which will cover c. 70% of the loan book and we continue to have access to a wide range of funding sources.
Liquidity Continue to comfortably meet the Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirements.
Risk, compliance and Regulatory relationship Continued good regulatory relationship with both the PRA and controls FCA.
Successful completion of ILAAP discussions with PRA.
BaFin approval of a license application for an Asset Finance business in Germany.
Risk management Three lines of defence model complete and in place.
governance Risk management Improved flow of management information to the Risk Committee, information increasing the continued effectiveness of its challenge and oversight and enhancing visibility on risk and compliance issues across the group.
Risk appetite framework Enhancement of the risk appetite framework with additional quantitative overlays to support the groups risk management.
Cyber detection and Improvements in cyber detection and monitoring capabilities have monitoring been made and a new chief information security officer has been appointed to increase our capability in this area.
Cyber security continues to be an important focus for the group in the forthcoming year as cyber threats continue to increase and evolve.
Conduct risk Enhanced conduct risk dashboards established at divisional and group level.
Strong engagement from management during the year.
Emerging risk Enhancement of stress testing capabilities and establishment of monitoring a group-wide forum to manage the potential impacts of Brexit.
Completion of deep dive reviews of the property and motor portfolios.
Asset and liability Implementation of new asset and liability management system to management support more sophisticated stress testing approach.
Interest rate, FX and Interest rate, FX and market risk methodologies enhanced.
market risk Performance objective has been achieved Satisfactory outcome, further progress to be made Performance objective has not been met Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 89 Details of the overall vesting for the LTIP and SMP Performance measure Threshold target Maximum target Actual achieved Overall vesting Adjusted EPS growth RPI 3% p. a. RPI 10% p. a.
25.6% As per the table on Risk management objectives n a n a page 88 92.1% Overall vesting 51.0% Historical vesting of LTIP awards compared to adjusted EPS and absolute TSR The following graph and table show the level of LTIP vesting following performance testing for the last eight years.
2 Vesting was subject to one third adjusted EPS, one third absolute TSR and one third strategic goals for all awards granted between 2009 and 2011, inclusive.
3 Vesting was subject to 40% adjusted EPS, 40% absolute TSR and 20% risk management objectives for the 2012 to 2014 awards.
Note: This graph shows the vesting percentage of the LTIP compared with the adjusted EPS rebased to 100 at 31 July 2011, and the TSR based on 100 invested in Close Brothers Group plc on 31 July 2011.
LTIP vesting for the last five years Vesting percentage Year awarded Year vested Adjusted EPS TSR Goals Total 1 2010 2013 66% 92% 80% 79% 1 2011 2014 100% 100% 85% 95% 1 2012 2015 100% 100% 87% 97% 2 2013 2016 100% 25% 89% 68% 2 2014 2017 56% 26% 92% 51% 1 Vesting was subject to one third adjusted EPS, one third absolute TSR and one third strategic goals for all awards granted between 2010 and 2011, inclusive.
2 Vesting was subject to 40% adjusted EPS, 40% absolute TSR and 20% risk management objectives for the 2012 to 2014 awards.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 90 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of TSR for the companys shares for the eight years ended 31 July 2017 against the TSR for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index.
Close Brothers FTSE 250 Note: This graph shows the value, by 31 July 2017, of 100 invested in Close Brothers Group plc on 31 July 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the intervening financial year ends.
TSR has been calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
The index has been selected because the company has been a constituent of the index throughout the period.
The closing mid-market price of the companys shares on 31 July 2017 was 1,540p and the range during the year was 1,242p to 1,715p.
Chief executive: historical information 1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 20152 2016 2017 Preben Prebensen Single figure of total 2 remuneration 000 1,890 2,187 2,496 5,748 7,411 5,962 3,995 3,406 Annual bonus against maximum opportunity 90% 95% 90% 100% 100% 98% 95% 91% LTIP, SMP and Matching Share Award vesting 33% 33% 25% 79% 95% 97% 68% 51% 1 The figures for the performance awards for 2016 have been re-calculated using the actual share price on the dates of vesting for the LTIP and Matched SMP shares of 13.74.
In the 2016 report, the three month average to 31 July 2016 was used given thatthe awards were vesting after publication of the report.
2 The figures for 2011 to 2014 include the Matching Share Awards that were granted in 2009 at the time of Preben Prebensens appointment as chief executive.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 91 Change in remuneration of the chief executive The following table shows how the remuneration of the chief executive increased compared to the general employee population for the 2017 financial year.
The Committee deemed it appropriate for Preben Prebensen to receive a salary increase below that received by the general employee population.
The change in bonus for Preben Prebensen reflects the achievement against the RoE and personal goals targets, outlined on pages 85 and 86.
The increase in average bonus for the general employee population primarily reflects improved business performance as shown on page 1 and the improvement in trading income in Winterflood, leading to an increase in bonuses in that division.
The average increase in bonus for the general employee population excluding Winterflood was 3%.
Average change Average change Average change in salary for 2017 in benefits for 2017 in annual bonus 1 2 3 from 1 August 2016 from 1 August 2016 for 2017 Preben Prebensen 4.6% All employee population 3% 3% 13% 1 Calculated as the average percentage increase in salary for those eligible for an increase at 1 August 2016.
2 Calculated as the average percentage increase in benefits for those eligible for a salary increase at 1 August 2016.
3 The percentage increase in the average bonus calculated as the total bonus spend divided by the average headcount for financial years 2016 and 2017.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the total remuneration paid compared to the total distributions to shareholders.
2017 2016 million million Remuneration paid 286.6 257.1 1 Distributions to shareholders 89.4 84.0 1 Interim dividend paid and final dividend proposed for the financial year.
Scheme interests awarded during the year Audited The face value and key details of the share awards granted in the 2017 financial year are shown in the table below.
These were all delivered as nil cost options.
The Deferred Share Award DSA is a mandatory deferral of a portion of the annual bonus.
The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded was 13.786, the average mid-market closing price for the five days prior to grant.
Percentage Vesting Performance Face value vesting at Number of performance Name Award type1 Vesting period conditions 000 threshold shares period end date Preben Prebensen DSA2 13 years No 465 n a 33,765 04-Oct-19 LTIP 3 years Yes 1,080 25% 78,341 04-Oct-19 SMP Invested 3 years No 540 n a 39,171 04-Oct-19 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 1,080 25% 78,342 04-Oct-19 Stephen Hodges DSA2 13 years No 912 n a 66,140 04-Oct-19 LTIP 3 years Yes n a 04-Oct-19 SMP Invested 3 years No n a 04-Oct-19 SMP Matching 3 years Yes n a 04-Oct-19 Jonathan Howell DSA2 13 years No 310 n a 22,493 04-Oct-19 LTIP 3 years Yes 750 25% 54,404 04-Oct-19 SMP Invested 3 years No 408 n a 29,596 04-Oct-19 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 816 25% 59,192 04-Oct-19 Elizabeth Lee DSA2 13 years No n a 04-Oct-19 LTIP 3 years Yes 400 25% 29,015 04-Oct-19 SMP Invested 3 years No 200 n a 14,508 04-Oct-19 SMP Matching 3 years Yes 400 25% 29,016 04-Oct-19 1 The awards are all delivered as nil cost options.
2 The DSA vests in equal tranches over three years.
External appointments Jonathan Howell received 77,000 in fees 2016: 77,000 from The Sage Group plc during the Close Brothers 2017 financial year.
None of the other EDs held any external directorships during the year.
Since 1 September 2017 Preben Prebensen has been a non-executive director of The British Land Company PLC, but did not receive any fees during the Close Brothers 2017 financial year.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 92 Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments to past directors Audited There were no payments to past directors after they had left office during the year.
Payments for loss of office Audited There were no payments made to directors for loss of office during the year.
Changes to the board Following Stephen Hodges retirement in November 2016 and as disclosed in the Annual Report 2016, Stephen did not receive a 2016 LTIP award.
For 2017 Stephen was awarded a bonus that has been pro-rated to reflect the length of his service as an ED in the year, and has continued to receive his salary and benefits during his notice period.
No LTIP award is proposed for 2017.
Stephen will be treated as a good leaver in line with the current Remuneration Policy for previous DSA, LTIP and SMP awards.
Statement of voting on the Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM Number of For Against abstentions Directors Remuneration Policy 92.5% 7.5% 5,247,011 Statement of voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2016 AGM Number of For Against abstentions Annual Report on Remuneration 93.4% 6.6% 7,038,220 The primary reasons cited for the votes against and actions taken in response are as follows: Reason Action taken by the Committee Concern raised regarding the presence of Following the review of Remuneration Policy the current LTIP and Share Matching theshare matching plan Plan will be replaced with a single LTIP award.
Lack of five year deferral within the LTIP Following the review of the Remuneration Policy a two year holding period post vesting on the LTIP has been introduced, increasing the deferral period to five years which in turn will increase alignment of EDs remuneration to industry best practice and shareholder interests.
EDs shareholding and share interests Audited The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the group as at 31 July 2017 are set out below: Number Outstanding share Outstanding share Shareholding of shares awards not subject to awards subject to requirement at owned 3 4 5 2 performance conditions performance conditions Outstanding options 31 July outright 1 Name 2017 2017 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Preben Prebensen 70,130 742,045 160,522 173,521 436,096 446,337 2,237 1,745 6 Jonathan Howell 52,988 200,577 115,685 125,752 324,426 339,234 Elizabeth Lee 21,478 40,378 41,893 35,946 167,570 156,622 2,321 1,745 1 Based on the closing mid-market share price of 1,540p on 31 July 2017.
2 This includes shares owned outright by closely associated persons.
3 This includes DSA and SMP Invested Shares.
4 This includes LTIP awards and Matched SMP Shares.
6 At 31 July and 16 September 2017, Jonathan Howell held 500,000 of the companys subordinated loan notes due 2027.
No EDs held shares that were vested but unexercised at 31 July 2017.
There were no changes in notifiable interests between 1 August 2017 and 16 September 2017, other than the purchase of shares by Preben Prebensen within the SIP which increased his shareholdings to 742,065 shares.
Notes to the details of directors share exercises during the year The DSA is a mandatory deferral of a portion of the annual bonus.
The DSA, LTIP and SMP consist of the right for EDs to call for shares in the company from the employee benefit trust or Treasury Shares, at nil cost, together with a cash amount representing accrued notional dividends thereon.
The DSA, LTIP and SMP awards may be forfeited if the ED leaves employment in certain circumstances preceding the vesting date.
They may be called for at any time up to 12 months from the date of vesting.
The value of the awards is charged to the groups income statement in the year to which the award relates for the DSA and Invested SMP Shares, and spread over the vesting period for the LTIP and Matched SMP Share awards.
The LTIP awards are held under the 2009 LTIP and are subject to the performance criteria described in the Remuneration Policy on page 89.
The Matched SMP Shares are subject to the same performance criteria.
Details of EDs option exercises during the year Audited Held at Market price Gain on 1 August Exercise price on exercise calling Name Award type 2015 Exercised Lapsed p p Preben Prebensen 2013 SAYE 966 966 931.0 1,440.0 4,917 Stephen Hodges Jonathan Howell Elizabeth Lee 2013 SAYE 966 966 931.0 1,435.0 4,869 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 94 Directors Remuneration Report continued Single total figure of Remuneration for non-executive directors Audited 1 2 Fees1 Benefits2 Fees Benefits 2017 2016 Name 000 000 000 000 Oliver Corbett 100 100 Geoffrey Howe 95 95 Lesley Jones 100 2 100 3 Bridget Macaskill 100 13 100 7 Strone Macpherson3 165 220 4 Mike Biggs 86 1 1 Non-executive director fees were increased with effect from 1 August 2015.
2 Benefits include travel related expenses in respect of attendance at board meetings which are taxable.
Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using the appropriate tax rate as the company pays the NEDs tax.
3 Strone Macpherson retired on 30 April 2017.
4 Mike Biggs was appointed a director on 14 March 2017 and chairman from 1 May 2017.
Notes to the single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors The fees payable to non-executive directors for the 2017 and 2018 financial years are as follows: Role 2018 2017 1 Chairman 300,000 220,000 Non-executive director 67,000 65,000 Supplements Senior independent director 20,000 15,000 Chairman of Audit Committee 30,000 25,000 Chairman of Remuneration Committee 30,000 25,000 Chairman of Risk Committee 30,000 25,000 2 Committee membership 5,000 5,000 1 The chairman receives no other fees for chairmanship or membership of board committees.
2 No fees are payable to the chairman, or for membership, of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Non-executive directors share interests Audited The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the company are set out below: Shares held Shares held beneficially at beneficially at 31 July 31 July Name 20171 20162 Oliver Corbett Geoffrey Howe 5,000 5,000 Lesley Jones Bridget Macaskill 2,500 2,500 Strone Macpherson 13,300 13,300 Mike Biggs 1 Or date of retirement, if earlier.
2 Or date of appointment, if later.
There were no changes in notifiable interests between 1 August 2017 and 16 September 2017.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 95 Advice PwC provided consultancy services to the group during the During the year under review and up to the date of this report, financial year and were originally engaged to advise on the Committee consulted and took advice from the following remuneration in 2008.
PwC are a member of, and adhere to, advisers and executives: the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of PwC: Conduct.
PwC were paid 284,016 in fees for remuneration Chairman of the board: services related to the 2017 financial year.
The Committee has Group chief executive: satisfied themselves that the advice received from all parties Group head of HR: named above was objective and independent.
Head of reward and HR operations: Group chief risk officer: and This report was approved by the board of directors on Company secretary.
26 September 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Where the Committee seeks advice from employees this never relates to their own remuneration.
Bridget Macaskill Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 96 In todays increasingly impersonal world, we recognise the value of building long-term relationships with our customers, many of which span decades and generations.
Staying close to our clients helps us understand their particular needs and tailor our solutions accordingly.
Photographed on location at Matsuura Machinery Ltd. Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 97 Financial Statements 98 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc 102 Consolidated Income Statement 103 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 104 Consolidated Balance Sheet 105 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 106 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 107 Company Balance Sheet 108 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 109 The Notes 150 Glossary 152 Investor Relations Cautionary Statement Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 98 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 12.9 million, Opinion which was determined on the basis of 5% of operating profit In our opinion: before tax.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 July Scoping 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Each of the four components of the group, Banking comprising the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Retail Finance, Commercial Finance and Property, Asset accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Management, Securities and the Group central functions, were IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: subject to a full scope audit.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Significant changes in our approach Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting There have been no significant changes in our approach, Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in reflecting the stability in the business year-on-year.
the UK and Republic of Ireland: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as viability statement regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the We have reviewed the directors statement regarding the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 to the financial statements and the We have audited the financial statements of Close Brothers Group directors statement on the longer-term viability of the group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which contained within the strategic report on pages 52 and 53. comprise: the Consolidated Income Statement: We are required to state whether we have anything material to add the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: or draw attention to in relation to: the Consolidated Balance Sheet: the disclosures on pages 16 to 19 that describe the principal the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity: risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the directors confirmation on pages 53 and 59 that they have the Company Balance Sheet: carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the the Company Statement of Changes in Equity: and group, including those that would threaten its business model, the related notes 1 to 29. future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting identification of any material uncertainties to the group and the framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent parent companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at company financial statements is applicable law and United least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial Kingdom Accounting Standards including Financial Reporting statements: Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the the directors explanation on page 52 as to how they have UK and Republic of Ireland United Kingdom Generally Accepted assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they Accounting Practice.
have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Basis for opinion reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in We conducted our audit in accordance with International operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing responsibilities under those standards are further described in the attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions: or auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements whether the directors statements relating to going concern and section of our report.
the prospects of the company required in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 are materially inconsistent with our We are independent of the group and the parent company in knowledge obtained in the audit.
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we to in respect of these matters.
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services We agreed with the directors adoption of the going concern basis prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the of accounting and we did not identify any such material group or the parent company.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient groups ability to continue as a going concern.
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters, which are similar to the matters as identified Key audit matters in the prior year, are those matters that, in our professional The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Loan impairment provisions: and financial statements of the current period and include the most Revenue recognition.
significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 99 due to fraud or error that we identified.
These matters included The principal change to the key audit matters that were identified in those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit the prior year is that we do not consider the impairment of goodwill strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing to be a key audit matter in the current year.
In the prior year, we the efforts of the engagement team.
particularly focused on the Securities and Asset Management divisions given their relative performance.
In the current year, the These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the performance of each division has been strong and the groups financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion impairment tests demonstrate that there is significant headroom in thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these each of the groups cash generating units which is insensitive to matters.
reasonably possible changes in assumptions.
Key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Key observations Loan impairment provisions Our procedures included understanding We determined that the As detailed in note 2, critical accounting estimates and testing the controls in respect of the provisioning methodologies and judgements on page 114 and the key groups loan impairment process such as used and the assumptions accounting judgements section of the Audit the timely recognition of impairment management have made are Committee Report on pages 64 and 65, loan provisions, the completeness and accuracy appropriate and the loan impairment provisions in the Commercial Finance, of reports used in the loan impairment impairment provision at year Retail Finance and Property Finance divisions process and management review end is reasonable.
reflect estimates of the amount and timing of processes over the calculation of collective future recoveries which require an assessment of and specific provisions.
matters such as future economic conditions and We tested the inputs used in collective the value of collateral.
Estimates, by their nature, impairment models and considered whether give rise to a higher risk of material misstatement those inputs reflected default and recovery due to error or fraud.
Loan impairment provisions experience across each of the divisions of 52.4 million represented approximately 0.76% portfolios appropriately adjusted to reflect of loans and advances to customers.
The income current experience and economic statement charge for the year was 40.2 million.
We audited a sample of specific provisions against individually significant impaired loans including challenging collateral values and discount rates assumed in the provisions and, where relevant, with the assistance of our property valuation specialists.
Revenue recognition Interest income We determined that the Interest income and fee and commission income We audited the effective interest rate income recognition policy is detailed in note 2, critical accounting estimates models by testing controls, challenging the for each fee income stream and judgements on page 114 and is included in assumptions used to estimate the effective tested is appropriate and was the key accounting judgements section of the interest rates used in determining interest correctly applied.
Audit Committee Report on pages 64 and 65. income and re-performing a sample of The groups revenue recognition policy is detailed effective interest rate calculations.
This We determined that the effective in note 1, significant accounting policies on pages included using our computer audit interest rate models used and the 110 and111.
specialists to test the extraction of data assumptions management have Interest income used in the calculations.
We audited a made are appropriate and that Interest income on loans and advances made sample of lending arrangements by interest income is not materially by the group is recognised using the effective agreeing them to loan agreements and misstated at year end.
interest rate method and any fees and direct cash receipts and we assessed whether transaction costs that form an integral part of the appropriate fees and costs had been the yield are included in the effective interest reflected in the effective interest rate.
The identification of applicable fees and Fee and commission income direct costs to be included in the effective We obtained a sample of Asset interest rate can be judgemental and therefore Management client agreements and there is a higher risk of material misstatement checked that accrued fees had been due to error or fraud.
The groups net interest calculated in accordance with the income was 461.6 million.
agreements, recognised appropriately and Fee and commission income challenged related estimates.
This primarily arises in the Banking and Asset Management divisions.
The groups fee and We tested controls over revenue recognition commission income was 206.5 million.
in the Commercial Finance and Retail Finance divisions.
We audited a sample of The timing of recognition of fees can be lending fees receivable in the Commercial judgemental as fees may be recognised Finance, Retail Finance and Property Finance immediately or over a period depending on the divisions by agreeing them to loan nature of the service provided and determining agreements and cash receipts: and we accrued fees can involve the use of estimates.
assessed the accounting treatment and timing of recognition of the fee.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 100 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc continued Our application of materiality If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a financial statements that makes it probable that the economic material misstatement in the financial statements or a material decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be misstatement of other information.
If, based on the work we changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning have performed, we conclude that there is a material the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of misstatement of this other information, we are required to our work.
Based on our professional judgement we determined In this context, matters that we are specifically required to materiality for the group financial statements as a whole report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the as follows: other information include where we conclude that: the statement given by the directors that they consider the Group materiality annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is 12,900,000 2016: 11,000,000 fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups Basis for determining materiality performance, business model and strategy, is materially 5% of operating profit before tax 2016: 5% of operating profit inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or before tax.
Materiality has increased in line with increases in the section describing the work of the audit committee does the groups profits.
not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Rationale for the benchmark applied the parts of the directors statement required under the Operating profit before tax was used as the basis for Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the determining materiality as we believe it is the key metric used UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions by members of the company in assessing financial specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing performance.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
258,000 2016: 220,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall Responsibilities of directors presentation of the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of An overview of the scope of our audit the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a Our group audit scope focused on each of the divisions of the true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors group, all of which comprise subsidiaries which are subject to determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial full scope audits for the year ended 31 July 2017.
Our audits of statements that are free from material misstatement, whether each subsidiary were planned using levels of materiality due to fraud or error.
appropriate for each subsidiary on a standalone basis, up to a maximum of 11.6 million 2016: 9.9 million.
Together with In preparing the financial statements, the directors are the groups and the banking central functions, which were responsible for assessing the groups and the parent also subject to a full scope audit, our audit scope covered companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as the entire group.
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either The group audit team works closely with the divisional and intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease subsidiary audit teams throughout the audit and the Senior operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Statutory Auditor met with divisional senior management during the year.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Other information Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about The directors are responsible for the other information.
The whether the financial statements as a whole are free from other information comprises the information included in the material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to annual report, other than the financial statements and our issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Our opinion on the financial assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee statements does not cover the other information and, except to that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our auditors report, we detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, onthe basis of these financial statements.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 101 Use of our report Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration that we might state to the companys members those matters Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for records and returns.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Other matters Auditor tenure Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies were appointed at the Annual General Meeting on 6 November Act2006 1984 to audit the financial statements for the year ended In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report 31 July 1985 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals the Companies Act 2006. and reappointments of the firm is 33 years, covering the years ended 31 July 1985 to 31 July 2017.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the information given in the Strategic Report and the the audit committee Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the statements are prepared is consistent with the financial audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with statements: and ISAs UK.
the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Robert Topley Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group Statutory Auditor and of the parent company and their environment obtained in London, United Kingdom the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
26 September 2017 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
