Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT It is important that our Single remuneration figure 000 overall remuneration The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year ended 1 July 2017 is shown below: policy is structured 2017 2016 to support both the Group Chief Executive David Brown 801 1,214 financial objectives Group Chief Financial and strategic Officer Patrick Butcher 422 269 priorities of the Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the 2013 14 Group.
LTIPaward which vested in November 2016.
Katherine Innes Ker, The total single remuneration is for part-year only from the Group Remuneration Committee Chair Chief Financial Officers appointment on 14 March 2016 to 2 July 2016.
Annual statement Executive remuneration policy Dear Shareholder, We thank our major shareholders and shareholder representative As Remuneration Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the bodies for their engagement last year in helping the committee to directors remuneration report for the year ended 1 July 2017.
This determine the threshold and maxima Earnings Per Share EPS report sets out our remuneration policy, which was last approved by metrics for the 2016 17 LTIP award.
This was in response to the shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM, how this revised outlook for GTR and analysts repositioning their forecasts.
policy was implemented during 2016 17 and how we will apply the Following this consultation, the committee confirmed the revised EPS policy for the forthcoming year 2017 18. metrics to our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies.
Full details of all of the LTIP metrics for the 2016 17 award Performance and reward executive directors can also be found on pages 90 and 91.
During the year under review, the executive directors informed the In conjunction with the committees independent remuneration committee that they did not wish to be considered for their 2016 17 advisors, New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt, part of annual performance-related bonus in acknowledgement of the Aon plc, the committee undertakes a broad and detailed review of operational issues and difficulties which continued to be experienced executive remuneration policy each year.
This year, the review focused in GTR, and the direct and negative impact this was having on on executive remuneration trends, which included current investor customers.
This is the second consecutive year that the Group Chief views, market sentiment and the corporate governance climate Executive has declined his annual performance-related bonus.
Key points considered as part of this review included committee accepted that no annual performance-related bonus executive salary increases above inflation, differences in pension would be paid to either of the executive directors for the year ended provisions between executives and the wider workforce, alternatives 1 July 2017. to LTIP, increase in share ownership quantum for executives, The committee also considered the extent to which the Long Term post-employment shareholding requirements and disclosure of Incentive Plan LTIP award granted to the Group Chief Executive in pay ratios.
As this award was set three years ago and based on specific long term value creation targets at this time, the committee determined that a proportion of this award should vest About this report in November 2017 based on the achievement of certain performance This report sets out details of the remuneration policy for our conditions.
Full details of the performance achieved against the executive and non-executive directors, describes the stretching total shareholder return, earnings per share and Group implementation of the approved remuneration policy and sets operating profit targets are provided on pages 89 and 90.
This award out the remuneration received by the directors for the year ended will be paid in shares to further align the interest of the Group Chief 1July 2017.
No changes have been made other than to reflect Executive with those of our shareholders.
changes to salary levels and the fact that the policy was formally approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The report complies Both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer received an inflationary increase of 2% to their base salaries from with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and 1 April 2017.
This was the first salary increase the Group Chief Executive had received for three years, following his request that no Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group also follows increase be awarded in April 2015 and April 2016.
This was also the first increase awarded to the Group Chief Financial Officer since he the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the Code.
was appointed in March 2016, with his salary remaining below that of his predecessor.
This year, average pay increases across our For completeness and transparency, this part of the directors businesses were in line with inflation and we continue to support the remuneration report includes the remuneration policy in the Voluntary Living Wage.
same form as it was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM Full details of the remuneration earned by the Group Chief Executive set out on pages 82 to 87 and intended to operate until the 2018 and the Group Chief Financial Officer can be found in this report.
The annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair set out on this page and page 78 and the annual report on remuneration set out on pages 88 to 95 will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
com 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Groups remuneration policy was last approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and it will apply until the 2018 AGM.
As such, we will not be asking shareholders to vote on the policy at the 2017 AGM.
The committee will Performance in 2016 17 consult with the Groups major shareholders and shareholder representative The Group is in a strong financial position and has delivered bodies on the new policy which will be put to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
good strategic progress in the year.
Key highlights of the The committee will focus on a fundamental review of long term incentives, year included: pension provision for future executive appointments, share ownership Southeastern franchise extended by six months to quantum for executives and post-employment shareholding requirements December 2018 and shortlisted to bid for the new South and best practice reporting.
Eastern franchise At last years AGM, 99.40% of the votes cast supported the resolution to Regional bus continues to deliver revenue growth broadly approve the annual report on remuneration.
This indicates support for in line with our expectations and slightly ahead of wider the committees focus on implementing the key principles of our industry trends executive remuneration policy.
Sector-leading customer satisfaction score of 90% in regional bus operations Remuneration linked to strategy Largest operator of electric buses in the UK and opened The committee believes it is very important that our overall the UKs first fully dedicated electric depot in London remuneration policy is structured to support both the financial objectives Acquisition of two regional bus businesses which will and the strategic priorities of the Group in a manner which is aligned deliver cost synergies and drive revenue in the long term with shareholders and stakeholders long term interests.
The key through the expertise of local teams principles underpinning the remuneration policy approved at the 2015 AGM are as follows: and these will be reviewed again as part of the Positive response from customers to contactless payment review of wider executive remuneration policy in 2018: options with a strong take-up of this new payment channel where it has been rolled out in Oxford and parts of the Prioritising long term shareholder value a large proportion of the North East executive directors remuneration is payable in shares.
Half of the total London Midlands financial performance remains strong: annual performance-related bonus is awarded as deferred shares, revenue and passenger numbers are growing ahead of the to be held for a period of three years and subject to recovery and wider industry, with the franchise extended by eight weeks withholding provisions.
Awards under the LTIP are also made in shares, to 10 December 2017 further aligning the interests of our executive directors with those of our shareholders.
Awards granted under the LTIP are subject to an additional Southeastern achieved the largest ever improvement in two year holding period following the vesting of awards.
customer satisfaction of any UK rail operator, and there were continued high levels of customer satisfaction at Balance we assess performance through a balanced range of London Midland measures to ensure we cover all aspects of our executive directors performance.
Third German rail contract secured, which will generate around 20m of annual revenue and will commence in Pay for performance there is a clear link between the performance of December 2019 the Group and payments made to the executive directors and senior managers.
Performance related elements of remuneration are relevant, Bus contract in Singapore commenced and delivering high transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Care is taken to avoid performance levels paying more than necessary and due regard is given to pay and Actively exploring further bus and rail opportunities in employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
international markets Risk remuneration incentives are designed to be aligned with the Proposed full year dividend increase of 6.5% to 102.08p, in Groups risk policies and systems.
line with interim dividend growth Culture incentives are structured to support Go-Aheads vision and Net cash of 230.3m, adjusted net debt of 285.8m and an culture by focusing on both individual director and collective Board adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.3x, below the accountability.
With alignment to our strategic objectives, we target Groups target level long term sustainable performance, with fair recruitment and Launched a seven year 250m sterling bond with an leaver policies.
Proceeds from the bond will be used to repay the 200m bond due in September 2017 and Implementation of remuneration policy 2017 18 for general corporate purposes The committee is not proposing any changes to the remuneration policy Despite good financial performance across the Group during for the financial year 2017 18. the year, overall Group performance has, as expected, been The committee has however agreed that the Group Chief Financial Officers impacted by rail profitability as a result of ongoing shareholding requirement will increase from 100% to 150% of base salary in challenges in GTR.
As announced in July 2017, and in accordance with best practice.
While it will not be incorporated into the agreement with the DfT, GTR will fund a package of current remuneration policy until next year, it is effective immediately.
performance and passenger improvements worth 13.4m.
This agreement resolves financial uncertainty relating to We look to shareholders to approve the report at the forthcoming AGM.
past industrial action and allows GTR to focus on continuing to improve services for Southern customers and delivering the significant passenger benefits with the Thameslink Programme.
Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chair 6 September 2017 78 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The actions of the remuneration REPORT AT A GLANCE committee have focused on areas that have impacted the key performance areas of society, customers, our people and finance.
Committee objectives What we have done Committee focus 2017 18 Set targets for performance-related Comprehensive review of remuneration 2016 17 remuneration, taking intoaccount long policy ahead of shareholder vote on the Set targets and review outcomes for term strategy, culture and new policy at the 2018 AGM performance-related remuneration, business needs taking intoaccount strategic objectives, Shareholder and shareholder advisory Reviewed executive remuneration policy body consultation on proposed changes risk policies andsystems with the committees advisors, to remuneration policy Continue to review remuneration policy particularly in the context of emerging Consider means of pro actively in thecontext of best practice and developments and best practice emerging developments engaging with the wider workforce on Consulted with major shareholders and how decisions on executive pay reflect Ensure regular dialogue with major representative bodies on proposed wider pay policy and how pay and shareholders and shareholder advisory changes to the 2016 17 LTIP award incentives align across the Group bodies and take their views into account threshold and maxima EPS metrics Set targets for performance-related when formulating policy and Approved and increased the remuneration taking intoaccount long making decisions shareholding requirement for the term strategy and review outcomes Ensure compliance with all regulatory Group Chief Financial Officer from requirements, including overseeing Review the overall remuneration policy 100% to 150% for senior management and pay and compliance with the Equal Pay Bill and gender pay gapreporting Considered the extent to which the employment conditions elsewhere in Group Chief Executives 2014 15 LTIP the Group Review the overall remuneration policy award should vest for senior management and pay and Ensure compliance with all regulatory Reviewed the overall remuneration requirements, in particular Equal Pay employment conditions elsewhere in the Group policy for senior management and pay Bill and gender pay gap reporting, in and employment conditions elsewhere April 2018 Review performance of the committee in the Group Review performance of the committee and its external advisors Reviewed performance of the and its external advisors committee and its external advisors Ensured compliance with all regulatory requirements, including Equal Pay Bill and gender pay gap reporting Remuneration committee membership Attendance Katherine Innes Ker Committee Chair Andrew Allner Chairman 1,2 Nick Horler Independent  Adrian Ewer Independent  Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary 1.
In accordance with the Boards succession plan, Nick Horler will retire from the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will be appointed as independent non-executive directors and members of the remuneration committee on 23 October 2017 and details of the rigorous selection process that was carried out in respect of their appointments can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 73 to 76.
Nick Horler was unable to attend one scheduled remuneration committee meeting on 7 June 2017 due to a long standing prior commitment.
com 79 Two year performance Three year vesting Three year performance One-year performance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE Remuneration principles Pay for performance Prioritising long A clear link exists between the term shareholder performance of the Group and Balance Risk payments made to the executive A balanced range of value Remuneration incentives are directors and senior managers measures is used to A large proportion of the executive designed to be compatible with ensure all aspects of directors remuneration is payable in Go-Aheads risk policies executive directors shares, aligning the interests of and systems overall performance executive directors are covered with shareholders Remuneration policy Component of Link to strategy Key features and application for the year ahead remuneration 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Core reward to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required to Salary reviewed annually by the committee deliver our strategic objectives Salary increases will not normally exceed the average increase awarded to other UK based employees unless certain circumstances apply From 1 April 2017, the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer received a 2% base salary increase from the previous year Salary, to 552,600 and 377,400 respectively pension The Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision.
The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a non-pensionable and other cash supplement of 13% of base salary benefits The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer receive family private healthcare, death in service and life assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel on the Groups services and professional membership subscriptions Bonus Rewards the delivery of key financial and strategic priorities Maximum bonus award of 150% of base salary cash Aligns executive directors interests with those of shareholders Half of bonus is paid in cash and half is based in shares deferred for a period of three years Encourages sustained performance in line with shareholder interests as Perfomance metrics include Group operating profit 65%, Group cashflow 10% and strategic KPIs 25% part of a balanced range of measures Unvested deferred shares are subject to malus and clawback.
Malus applies to the period prior to vesting and clawback applies to cash and deferred shares for a period of three years from the date the cash payment is made and the date the share awards are granted Bonus deferred shares Encourages the delivery of long term sustainable returns to shareholders Maximum LTIP award of 150% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer Awards vest after a three year perfomance period Awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt of the shares for two further years LTIP Performance metrics include compound annual growth in EPS 40%, relative TSR 40%, and customer satisfaction ratings 20% Malus applies to the period prior to vesting and clawback applies for three years following the date on which the award vests Aligns the financial interests of the executive directors with those Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred shares awards until such time as the Group of shareholders Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer have achieved holdings of 200% 150% and 150% 100% respectively Share ownership 80 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Executive director remuneration actual vs policy 000 The charts below show a comparison of the total single remuneration received by the executive directors for the year ended 1 July 2017 compared with the maximum reward opportunity that was available under Go-Aheads remuneration policy: Culture Incentives are structured to support David Brown Patrick Butcher Go-Aheads vision, beliefs and Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer attitudes.
We target long term Fixed Bonus LTIP Other remuneration Fixed Bonus LTIP sustainable performance with fair recruitment and leaver policies Actual 801 Actual 422 Max 1,829 Max 994 The value of the gross cumulative dividend payment in relation to the 2013 14 deferred share bonus award which vested in November 2016 following the end of the three year deferral period Link to strategy Key features and application for the year ahead Core reward to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required to Salary reviewed annually by the committee deliver our strategic objectives Salary increases will not normally exceed the average increase awarded to other UK based employees unless certain circumstances apply From 1 April 2017, the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer received a 2% base salary increase from the previous year to 552,600 and 377,400 respectively The Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision.
The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of base salary The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer receive family private healthcare, death in service and life assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel on the Groups services and professional membership subscriptions Rewards the delivery of key financial and strategic priorities Maximum bonus award of 150% of base salary Aligns executive directors interests with those of shareholders Half of bonus is paid in cash and half is based in shares deferred for a period of three years Encourages sustained performance in line with shareholder interests as Perfomance metrics include Group operating profit 65%, Group cashflow 10% and strategic KPIs 25% part of a balanced range of measures Unvested deferred shares are subject to malus and clawback.
Malus applies to the period prior to vesting and clawback applies to cash and deferred shares for a period of three years from the date the cash payment is made and the date the share awards are granted Encourages the delivery of long term sustainable returns to shareholders Maximum LTIP award of 150% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer Awards vest after a three year perfomance period Awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt of the shares for two further years Performance metrics include compound annual growth in EPS 40%, relative TSR 40%, and customer satisfaction ratings 20% Malus applies to the period prior to vesting and clawback applies for three years following the date on which the award vests Aligns the financial interests of the executive directors with those Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred shares awards until such time as the Group of shareholders Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer have achieved holdings of 200% 150% and 150% 100% respectively Last year, the Group Chief Executives shareholding requirement was increased from 150% to 200% in accordance with best practice.
This year, the Group Chief Financial Officers shareholding requirement has been increased from 100% to 150%.
While these changes will not be incorporated into the current remuneration policy until the 2018 Annual General Meeting, they are immediately effective.
com 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy report The Groups remuneration policy the Policy is set out in this section.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, held on 22 October 2015, and is effective until the 2018 AGM.
The policy table that follows provides detail on each key element of remuneration, including the maximum potential value of each element, a brief summary of how it works and details of any performance metrics.
Remuneration policy table for executive directors Element & maximum Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Salary is the core reward for the role and Paid monthly in cash Annual salary increases for executive n a enables the Group to recruit and retain directors will not normally exceed the In determining base salaries, the committee considers: individuals of the calibre required to deliver average increase awarded to other UK based - Pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250 its strategic objectives and lead its employees - External market conditions management team, without paying more However, larger increases may be awarded than is necessary - Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group in certain circumstances including but not Base salary also reflects the individuals limited to: - Individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential skills, expertise, experience and role within - Increase in scope of responsibilities of the Salaries are normally reviewed annually with changes taking effect from the Group role 1April each year - To apply salary progression for a newly The committee may also review salaries on an ad hoc basis if an individual appointed director is promoted and or there is an increase in their responsibilities - Where a directors salary has fallen significantly below market position PerformanceFocuses on the key priorities for the Annual, non-pensionable payments made after the AGM Maximum of 150% of salary Performance metrics will normally include Group profit, cash and individual strategic related bonus comingyear goals with profitability accounting for at least half of the opportunity Half of any bonus is paid in cash following the AGM and half is paid in Deferral of half of bonus into Group shares shares deferred for a period of three years A quality of earnings review and health and safety target thresholds also apply to the full aligns executive directors interests with bonus Based on the achievement of specific financial and non-financial objectives those of shareholders Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following the award Long Term Aligned to the strategic objectives of the Annual grant of performance shares that vest three years after grant Maximum of 150% of salary for Group Chief Performance measured over three financial years Incentive Plan Group to deliver long term returns to subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions Executive and 100% of salary for other 1 Performance metrics will include compound annual growth in adjusted EPS and relative LTIP shareholders executive directors Awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax or NICs TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award due on receipt of the shares for two further years Exceptional circumstances maximum e. g. From the 2015 16 awards adjusted EPS has a 40% weighting, relative TSR has a 40% on recruitment of 200% ofsalary Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following weighting and customer satisfaction ratings in our bus and rail divisions will each have a vesting 10% weighting For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may vest at threshold performance The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting and choice of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics Pension Provides a cash alternative to pension Monthly, non-pensionable payment, paid in cash A cash allowance of up to 15% of salary may n a 2 allowance contributions in line with market practice be provided Other Ensures package is competitive with The main benefits include family private healthcare, death in service and life Benefits are intended to be market n a benefits market practice and employees have assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel on theGroups services and competitive but are not subject to a a minimum level of insured benefits professional membership subscriptions maximum as the cost of providing the insured benefits is set by third party providers and can vary from year to year All employee Executive directors are eligible to Executive directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC Participation levels operate in accordance n a share plans participate in HMRC approved all employee guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other with HMRC limits as amended from time to schemes which encourage share ownership eligible employees time Share To align the financial interests of the Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post tax gain on vested 200% 150% of salary holding for the Group n a 3 ownership executive directors with those of LTIP and deferred share awards until such time as the Group Chief Chief Executive and 150% 100% of salary 4 shareholders Executive has achieved a holding of 200% 150% of salary and other holding for other executive directors executive directors have achieved 150% 100% ofsalary 1.
In line with our commitment to transparent reporting, EPS is now reported on a statutory basis.
Where targets have been based on adjusted EPS EPS before amortisation and exceptional items, vesting will be determined by a calculation on an adjusted basis, based on reported Group operating profit adding back amortisation and any exceptional items, which is consistent with prior years.
The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a cash allowance of 13% of salary.
82 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy table for executive directors Element & maximum Purpose & link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Salary is the core reward for the role and Paid monthly in cash Annual salary increases for executive n a enables the Group to recruit and retain directors will not normally exceed the In determining base salaries, the committee considers: individuals of the calibre required to deliver average increase awarded to other UK based - Pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250 its strategic objectives and lead its employees - External market conditions management team, without paying more However, larger increases may be awarded than is necessary - Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group in certain circumstances including but not Base salary also reflects the individuals limited to: - Individual performance, skills, experience in post and potential skills, expertise, experience and role within - Increase in scope of responsibilities of the Salaries are normally reviewed annually with changes taking effect from the Group role 1April each year - To apply salary progression for a newly The committee may also review salaries on an ad hoc basis if an individual appointed director is promoted and or there is an increase in their responsibilities - Where a directors salary has fallen significantly below market position PerformanceFocuses on the key priorities for the Annual, non-pensionable payments made after the AGM Maximum of 150% of salary Performance metrics will normally include Group profit, cash and individual strategic related bonus comingyear goals with profitability accounting for at least half of the opportunity Half of any bonus is paid in cash following the AGM and half is paid in Deferral of half of bonus into Group shares shares deferred for a period of three years A quality of earnings review and health and safety target thresholds also apply to the full aligns executive directors interests with bonus Based on the achievement of specific financial and non-financial objectives those of shareholders Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following the award Long Term Aligned to the strategic objectives of the Annual grant of performance shares that vest three years after grant Maximum of 150% of salary for Group Chief Performance measured over three financial years Incentive Plan Group to deliver long term returns to subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions Executive and 100% of salary for other 1 Performance metrics will include compound annual growth in adjusted EPS and relative LTIP shareholders executive directors Awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax or NICs TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award due on receipt of the shares for two further years Exceptional circumstances maximum e. g. From the 2015 16 awards adjusted EPS has a 40% weighting, relative TSR has a 40% on recruitment of 200% ofsalary Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following weighting and customer satisfaction ratings in our bus and rail divisions will each have a vesting 10% weighting For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may vest at threshold performance The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting and choice of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics Pension Provides a cash alternative to pension Monthly, non-pensionable payment, paid in cash A cash allowance of up to 15% of salary may n a 2 allowance contributions in line with market practice be provided Other Ensures package is competitive with The main benefits include family private healthcare, death in service and life Benefits are intended to be market n a benefits market practice and employees have assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel on theGroups services and competitive but are not subject to a a minimum level of insured benefits professional membership subscriptions maximum as the cost of providing the insured benefits is set by third party providers and can vary from year to year All employee Executive directors are eligible to Executive directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC Participation levels operate in accordance n a share plans participate in HMRC approved all employee guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other with HMRC limits as amended from time to schemes which encourage share ownership eligible employees time Share To align the financial interests of the Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post tax gain on vested 200% 150% of salary holding for the Group n a 3 ownership executive directors with those of LTIP and deferred share awards until such time as the Group Chief Chief Executive and 150% 100% of salary 4 shareholders Executive has achieved a holding of 200% 150% of salary and other holding for other executive directors executive directors have achieved 150% 100% ofsalary 3.
Last year, the Group Chief Executives share ownership guideline was increased from 150% to 200% in accordance with best practice.
While it will not be incorporated into the current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it was immediately effective.
This year, the Group Chief Financial Officers shareholding requirement has increased from 100% to 150%.
Similarly, while it will not be incorporated into the current remuneration policy until the next opportunity, it is immediately effective.
com 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and Considerations when determining applying the appropriate treatment remunerationpolicy Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance The remuneration committee considers shareholder feedback measures, and setting targets for the annual performance-related received, and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more bonus and LTIP from year to year generally when reviewing remuneration policy, in addition to best practice and the Code.
If an event occurs which results in the annual performance-related bonus or LTIP performance conditions and or targets being deemed A substantial proportion of the executive directors pay is no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, the performance-related, with half of the annual bonus also being committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures subject to deferral into the Groups shares.
A broad range of financial and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised and non-financial targets are included in our incentive structure and conditions or targets are not materially less difficult tosatisfy.
recovery and withholding provisions apply to both the annual The committee would only expect to exercise discretion to deal with performance-related bonus and LTIP.
In addition, awards granted under the LTIP since 2015 are subject to an additional two year exceptional circumstances and would always provide context and explanation of the extent to which the discretion has been used.
holding period following the vesting of awards.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee ensures that risk is properly considered in setting the overall unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 91 and 92, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based on their original remuneration policy.
The executive directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social and governance matters seriously and to award terms.
consider the long term implications of their decision making.
Accordingly, in line with the Investment Association Guidelines on Consistency with remuneration for the responsible investment disclosure, the committee has linked a widerGroup proportion of the annual performance-related bonus to the achievement of safety and good governance objectives.
Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the attract and retain high-calibre talent and that reward should support remuneration packages offered to employees across the Group.
As a the delivery of business strategy.
The committee reviews the point of principle salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration for those employees immediately below the executive remuneration are benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain directors to ensure that thisincentivises the delivery of both strategy competitive in the markets in which we operate.
As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits across Through our devolved structure, local management are then the businesses which reflect individual responsibility, market and empowered to create tailored remuneration packages on geographical location.
When considering annual salary increases, the anindividual business-by-business basis.
As a result, the committee reviews the proposals for salary increases for the components and levels of remuneration for different employees will employee population generally, as it does for any other changes to differ from the policy for executive directors asset out above.
Employees may receive bonus, pension and share awards which vary according to the local business and market practice.
The maximum The committee did not formally consult with employees when provision and incentive opportunity available are determined by the drawing up the directors remuneration policy.
However, the seniority and responsibility of the role.
committee considers any informal feedback received through employee staff surveys or other channels.
Over the year ahead, Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors only thecommittee will be considering how there can be more pro-active whileparticipation in the deferred share bonus plan is limited to engagement with the wider workforce on matters of executive pay executive directors and seniormanagement.
It is an important part of Go-Aheads values that all colleagues, not just management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in Committee discretions the Group.
All employees, with at least six months continuous The committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans service, therefore have the opportunity to participate in our Share according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC Incentive Plan and Save As You Earnschemes.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the committee will apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis Determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment Determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table on pages 82 and 83 Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment ofperformance Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and special dividends 84 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance measure selection With the exception of base salary, benefits, pension allowance and participation in all employee share plans, all other elements of the remuneration packages of the executive directors are linked to performance.
In choosing the performance metrics and targets we have sought to provide a strong and demonstrable link between management incentives and the Groups strategic objectives.
We have also set a performance based framework for remuneration which is consistent with the Groups scale and unique structure.
This enables the executive directors and senior managers to share in the long term success of the Group without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging short termism or excessive risk taking.
It also aligns their interests with those of our shareholders.
The choice of performance measures for the annual performance-related bonus is based on a mixture of financial, non-financial, personal and strategic targets, with aclear alignment to the Groups short and long term strategicobjectives.
A significant proportion of executive directors potential remuneration is performance-related.
This comprises annual bonuses under the performance-related bonus and long term incentives under the LTIP.
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the executive directors split between fixed, target and maximum remuneration scenarios.
The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
Total remuneration by performance scenario for 2017 18 financial year 000 Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed 556 Fixed 428 Target 1,178 Target 805 Max 2,216 Max 1,371 The assumptions underlying each scenario are describedbelow: Fixed remuneration: base salary as at 1 April 2017, benefits as received in 2016 17 and, for the Group Chief Financial Officer only, the value of his pension allowance.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of the maximum annual performance-related bonus award 75% of base salary plus threshold vesting under the LTIP awards 37.5% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 25% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus the maximum annual performance-related bonus award 150% of base salary plus full vesting of LTIP awards 150% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Recruitment remuneration On appointing a new executive director, the committee wouldseek to The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is align the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the necessary to compensate executive directors for incentives lost from Groups remuneration policy as set out on pages 82 and 83.
It would their previous employers.
The level and timing of such compensation aim not to pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate and will normally seek to reflect or take account of the term and the package would take into account the experience and calibre of the performance conditions of the payments or awards forgone on a like individual concerned.
The remuneration package for a new executive for like basis.
director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards or remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
options over Group shares but cash and or time vested payments may Where a newly appointed executive director is required torelocate, be made where the committee believes these would offer better value the Group may pay the costs of relocation if appropriate and may for money for shareholders.
Existing arrangements will be used provide tax equalisation and assistance with reasonable legal fees.
where possible: however, the committee also reserves the ability to make use of the flexibility provided under the Listing Rules without Any executive director promoted internally may remain eligible for prior shareholder approval.
The committee is sensitive to investor payments under incentive plans joined and or contractual concerns about such arrangements and will endeavour to takecost arrangements entered into before joining the Board.
committee will have regard to best practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements.
com 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Service agreements of executive directors Departure of executive directors The Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer Executive directors service agreements contain a provision, entered into a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on exercisable at the discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of 1April 2011 and 14 March 2016 respectively.
The term of each service notice on early termination of the agreement.
Such payments are agreement is undefined and is terminable by either the Group on one limited to base salary plus pension allowance and other benefits years notice or by the executive director on six months notice.
The such as family private healthcare and life assurance cover, but directors service agreements are available for inspection at the would not automatically include entitlement to bonus or share Groups registered office.
The Group can also pay legal fees and outplacement services.
There External appointments are no provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early retirement terms.
Other than the notice periods specified above, the In accordance with their service agreements, the executive directors executive directors are not due any contractual compensation are able to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain payments in the event of early termination of a service agreement.
any fees paidfor such services, provided that approval is given by the The committee believes that the agreements provide appropriate Board.
The Group Chief Executive is a director of the Rail Delivery protection of the interests of shareholders when negotiating a Group Limited and ATOC Limited and he does not receive any fees for termination, at which time the committee would take into account the either of these roles.
From 3 April 2017, the Group Chief Executive departing directors duty to mitigate his her loss when determining was also appointed as non-executive director of Renew Holdings plc the amount of any compensation.
for which he receives 35,000 per annum.
The Group Chief Financial Officer does not have any external appointments.
Loss of office payments The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
However, the table below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normallyapply: Other leavers Reason for termination Retirement, redundancy, disability, death or change of ownership e. g. resignation misconduct Salary and contractual Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of any Paid to date of termination, benefits contractual benefits for the notice period including any accrued or including pay for any accrued untakenholiday but untaken holiday Performance-related Bonus awarded subject to satisfaction of performance targets for the No award for year of bonus cash relevant financial year, pro-rated accordingly for the period of termination employment to the date of cessation of employment Performance-related bonus Awards vest in accordance with normal timetable with the exception of Awards lapse in full on deferredshares ill-health retirement cases which are reviewed by the committee on a cessation of employment case by case basis Unvested LTIP awards Awards normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the Awards lapse in full on remuneration committee determines the award should vest on the date cessation ofemployment of cessation ofemployment The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment although the committee has discretion to waive pro-rating where it believes it would be appropriate to do so 86 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Policy table for Chairman and non-executive directors The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the non-executive directors is set out in the table below.
Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their ownremuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive The remuneration of the non-executive directors directors is a fixed annual fee commensurate with takesthe form solely of fees, which are set annually the time each director is expected to spend on the bythe Board Groups affairs and with the responsibility assumed The level of fees set is subject to the current limits as as director of a listed company setout in the Groups articles of association currently Fees are set at a level to attract and retain aggregate fees of 500,000 for all non-executive individuals with appropriate expertise to directors complement the Groupsstrategy Fees are reviewed on 1 April each year with reference to comparable listed companies in the FTSE 250 Additional fees Additional fees may be paid to non-executive Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive payable for duties directors who are chair of a Board committee and or performance-related remuneration or pension who occupy the role of Senior Independent Director entitlements or to participate in share to reflect the additional responsibility and time optionschemes commitment required Non-executive directors may also be provided withlimited travel, hospitality and  The Chairman and non-executive directors do not receive benefits in kind nor do they participate in the Groups short and long term incentive arrangements or in its pensionscheme.
Letters of appointment for Chairman and non-executive directors Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered office during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during theAGM.
The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below: Notice period Notice period Director Date of service agreement from the Group from the director Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months Nick Horler November 2011 6 months 6 months Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months Retirement and re-election of directors In accordance with the Groups articles of association and the provisions of the Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly, all directors will be submitting themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM with the exception of NickHorler, who will retire at the conclusion of the AGM.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will offer themselves for election as independent non-executive directors for the first time at the 2017 AGM.
Details of the rigorous selection process that was carried out in respect of their appointments can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 73 to 76. www.
com 87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration Annual report on remuneration for senior management within the Group The remuneration committee presents the annual report on Determine the fees of the Chairman remuneration which, together with the annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair, will be putto shareholders as an The members of the committee have no personal interests in the advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 2November 2017. matters to be decided by the committee other than as shareholders, and have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships.
Committee members did not attend meetings where matters Remuneration committee report associated with their own remuneration were considered.
The committee comprises the Chairman and three independent non-executive directors.
During the year, the committees recommendations were all accepted unanimously by the Board and implemented withoutamendment.
The committee met seven times during the year.
Five of these meetings were scheduled, with two additional meetings being held so that additional time could be given to certain key considerations such Terms of reference as the structure and targets for the 2016 17 annual performanceThe committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and related bonus and to discuss shareholder feedback on the approvedbythe Board.
During the year, the terms of reference were remuneration consultation in respect of EPS metrics for the 2016 17 updated in accordance with best practice and a copy is available on LTIP award.
our corporate website at www.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Role of the committee The committees principal responsibilities are to: External advisors to the committee New Bridge Street NBS a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part Develop the remuneration policy for the executive directors, of Aon plc act as independent remuneration advisors to the including the balance between fixed and performance-related, committee.
The advisor was selected through a thorough process led cash and share-based, immediate  by the Remuneration Committee Chair and was appointed by the Review the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of the committee.
Neither AonHewitt Limited nor the wider Aon plc Groups remuneration policy provided any other services to the Group during the year and Regularly review the design and targets for performance-related therefore the committee was satisfied that it provided objective and pay arrangements and approve the total annual payments independent advice.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration and awards Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
The fees payable to NBS for advice throughout the year were 26,526 Ensure adherence to the policy set for executive directors service agreements, including recruitment and compensation 2016: 38,816. payment policies Statement of voting at general meeting At last years AGM 3 November 2016 the directors remuneration report received the following votes fromshareholders: Votes for and discretionary Votes against Total votes Withheld Remuneration report 27,882,523 168,318 28,050,841 8,736 99.40% 0.60% 100% The remuneration policy was last approved for 2014 15 at the AGM held on 22 October 2015, the voting outcome of which was: Votes for and discretionary Votes against Total votes Withheld Remuneration policy 21,842,550 497,285 22,339,835 5,227,804 97.77% 2.23% 100% 88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 17 Executive directors annual base salary audited Base salary levels for executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2018 when they will be reviewedagain: From From % Executive director 1 April 2017 1 April 2016 Increase Group Chief Executive, David Brown 552,600 541,800 2 Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher 377,400 370,000 2 Executive directors remuneration audited The table below summarises all remuneration that was earned by each executive director during the year and computes a single total remuneration figure for the year.
The remuneration for the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer reflects their request not to be considered for the 2016 17 annual performance-related bonus award.
The value of the LTIP reflects the award granted to the Group Chief Executive in November 2014, a proportion of which will vest in November 2017 as a result of the achievement of certain long term performance conditions set three years previously and ended at the completion of the financial year on 1 July 2017.
The LTIP value in the table below is based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2016 17 of 17.89.
This value has been estimated as the award will not actually vest until shortly after the 2017 AGM.
The remuneration committee reviews all incentive awards prior to payment and uses judgement to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
If circumstances warrant it, the committee may adjust the final payment or vesting downwards.
Short term incentives Performance-related bonuses Long term Single total Taxable Deferred incentives Pension Other remuneration 1 2 2 3 4 5 Salary benefits Cash bonus share bonus LTIP allowance remuneration figure 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive director 2017 545 3 239 14 801 Group Chief Executive, David Brown 2016 542 3 647 22 1,214 Group Chief Financial Officer, 2017 372 2 48 422 Patrick Butcher 2016 112 1 141 15 269 Restated from last years value of 1,310,583 to reflect actual value of the Group Chief Executives 2013 14 LTIP award which was 557,429 based on the share price as at 16 November 2016 of 20.333.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment disclosed last year of 70,821 is restated as 89,332, the difference being the cash equivalent value of the dividend that was paid to all shareholders on the register at close of business on 11 November 2016.
This is in accordance with the LTIP rules which provide that a cash equivalent to the value of the gross cumulative dividend should be paid as if the participant had been the holder of the shares from the date of award to the day prior to the date on which he exercised his award.
Taxable benefits The taxable benefit for the executive directors comprises family healthcare membership.
Cash bonus and deferred share bonus annual performance-related bonus At the request of the executive directors, the committee accepted that no annual performance-related bonus would be paid to either the Group Chief Executive or the Group Chief Financial Officer for the year ended 1 July 2017.
Vesting of 2014 15 LTIP award Group Chief Executive only The table on page 90 summarises the performance conditions forthe Group Chief Executives 2014 15 LTIP award and the actual performance achieved.
This award was subject to performance conditions measured over the three financial years ending with the 2016 17 financial period.
As shown overleaf, 27.5% of the adjusted EPS growth target 30% weighting was achieved and there was no vesting for the TSR element of the 2014 15 LTIP award.
The Group operating profit applying to 40% of the 2014 15 LTIP award is payable on a sliding scale between the threshold and maximum targets.
No element of this award vests unless Group operating profit has increased from the Groups operating profit for the year ended 28 June 2014 by at least 25% over the three financial years ended 1 July 2017.
At threshold, 20% vests if the Group has achieved 25% growth in2016 17 operating profit.
At maximum, 40% vests if operating profit has grown by 50%.
A sliding scale applies for growth between 25% and50%.
The Groups restated operating profit before amortisation for the year ended 28 June 2014 was 115.4m.
The Groups operating profit before amortisation for the year ended 1 July 2017 was 153.7m.
The Groups operating profit before amortisation has therefore increased by 33% over the three years, resulting in a 26.5% of 40% vesting for this element of the award.
com 89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance conditions and actual performance achieved for the 2014 15 LTIP award Payout Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Group operating % of each element growth in adjusted EPS excluding certain sectors company profit Weighting 30% 30% 40% % of total award Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median See commentary on previous page Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold Between Between RPI 2% p. a. and RPI 8%p.
Between median and and maximum 25% and 100% upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 8% p. a.
Upper quartile Performance achieved Adjusted EPS of 212.6p From a base of 163p this is equivalent to growth of RPI 7.34% Actual % vesting 54% 27.5% 0% 26.5% In line with our commitment to transparent reporting, EPS and operating profit are now reported on a statutory basis.
At the time of this LTIP award, the targets were based on adjusted EPS and adjusted operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items.
The vesting of the 2014 15 LTIP has therefore been calculated on an adjusted basis, based on reported Group operating profit adding back amortisation and any exceptional items, which is consistent with prior years.
The value of the Group Chief Executives LTIP award is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 89.
This includes the value of the long term incentive shares vesting which amounts to 206,093 based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2016 17 of 17.89.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment is also payable equating to 33,169.
Pension allowance The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary.
The Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
Other remuneration The value of the gross cumulative dividend payment in relation to the 2013 14 deferred share bonus award which vested in November 2016 following the end of the three year deferral period.
2016 17 LTIP awards granted during the year ended 1 July 2017 audited LTIP awards were granted to the executive directors during the year ended 1 July 2017, structured as nil-cost options, exercisable at the end of a three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2016 17 financial period andending with the 2018 19 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Vested awards are then subject to a further two year holding period other than for sales to settle any tax or NIC liability on exercise of the awards.
The 2016 17 grant policy was to grant awards with a face value of 150% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer as follows: Number of shares 2 Executive Basis of award Share price at grant over which award was Face value of award % of award which vests as Vesting determined by 1 director granted date granted '000 threshold performance over David 150% of salary 20.08 39,698 797 10% for EPS, 25% for Three financial years Brown TSR and 10% for each ending on 29 June 2019 customer element Patrick 100% of salary 20.08 18,073 363 10% for EPS, 25% for Three financial years Butcher TSR and 10% for each ending on 29 June 2019 customer element 1.
The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of 20.472, this being the average of the middle market quotations during the period of five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the planrules.
The face value of the award has been calculated on a share price of 20.08.
This was the share price on 16 November 2016, the date of grant.
The committee consulted with major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on proposed changes to the LTIPs threshold and maxima EPS metrics in response to the revised outlook for GTR and analysts repositioning of their forecasts.
The revised EPS metrics are shown in the table on page 91, together with the TSR and customer service targets which were unchanged from the previous year.
90 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance conditions attaching to the 2016 17 LTIP award Compound annual Relative TSR vs EPS payout % growth in adjusted Payout % of TSR FTSE 250 excluding Payout % of each Rail customer Bus customer of element EPS element certain sectors customer element service target service target Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 10% 10% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 0% Below median 0% Less than Less than 2% p. a.
25% Median 10% 78% 90% Between threshold Between 10% Between RPI Between 25% Between median Between 10% Between Between 90% and maximum and 100% 2% p. a. and RPI and 100% and upper and 100% 78% and and 93% 10% p. a. quartile 82% Maximum 100% RPI 10% p. a.
100% Upper quartile 100% 82% 93% In line with our commitment to transparent reporting, EPS is now reported on a statutory basis.
At the time of grant, the 2016 17 LTIP targets were based on adjusted EPS EPS before amortisation and exceptional items.
When determining the vesting of the 2016 17 LTIP after the year ending 2018 19, the calculation will be on an adjusted basis, based on reported Group operating profit adding back amortisation and any exceptional items, which is consistent with prior years.
The customer satisfaction targets will be as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport Focus formerly Passenger Focus and published in the annual report.
This is a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead.
It is a strategic priority for the Group to provide high-quality service and customer satisfaction is a critical measure of our performance.
Ensuring management is focused on this strategic measure is critically important as a driver of long term shareholder value.
The above EPS targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these policies.
Awards will continue to vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited The committee believes that the shareholding requirements for executives play an important role in the alignment of the interests of executives and shareholders and help to incentivise executives to deliver sustainable long term performance.
From the 2016 17 financial year, the Group Chief Executives guideline was 200% of salary, which had increased from 150% previously, while the Group Chief Financial Officers guideline was 100% of salary.
Until they reach these levels, the executive directors are expected to retain 50% of the post-tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 must be retained other than to pay tax and NICs due on receipt of shares for a further two years.
During the year, the committee agreed that the Group Chief Financial Officers share ownership guidelines should increase to 150% of salary.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in shares and long term incentive interests for the period ended 1 July 2017 are set out in the table below.
At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 66,011 shares equating to 210% of base salary based on the closing share price on 1 July 2017 and therefore meets the shareholding requirement.
The Group Chief Financial Officer beneficially held 4,363 shares equating to 20% of base salary and therefore does not yet meet the shareholding requirement.
9 Executive director David Brown Patrick Butcher 1 Ordinary shares 2 July 2016 46,261 1,886 2 3 1 July 2017 66,011 4,363 Shareholding requirement % of basic salary 200% 150% 4 Current shareholding as at 1 July 2017 % of basic salary 210% 20% Shareholding requirement met Yes No 5 6 Share options Without performance conditions Sharesave 197 0 7 With deferral conditions Unvested deferred share bonus awards 26,932 6,770 7 With performance conditions Unvested LTIP awards 72,316 18,073 8 Awards eligible for vesting 2016 17 11,520 0 Shareholding when 2014 15 DSBP and LTIP awards vest in November 2017 % of basic salary 253% 20% 1.
Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the directors personal holdings and those of their spouses.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
During the year, David Browns beneficial shareholding increased by 19,750 ordinary shares.
This comprised 2,326 and 14,464 ordinary shares acquired through the post-tax gain on the 2013 14 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards respectively which vested in November 2016.
Additionally, David Brown purchased 2,868 shares in March 2017 and 92 shares were purchased under the Groups Share Incentive Plan during the period 3 July 2016 to 1 July 2017.
For further details on the vesting of the 2013 14 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards, please see page 92.
During the year, Patrick Butchers beneficial shareholding increased by 2,477 ordinary shares which he purchased in March 2017.
Shareholding as a % of salary includes only ordinary shares.
Unvested deferred shares or LTIP awards have not been included.
Shareholding is based on the closing share price on 1 July 2017.
Deferred share bonus plan and LTIP awards are structured as nil cost options.
Sharesave is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance condition as per HMRC Regulations.
Excludes LTIP awards which will be granted in November 2017 for the year ended 1 July 2017.
As per the request of the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer, there were no deferred share awards granted for the year ended 1 July 2017. www.
com 91 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 8.
Relates to the 2014 15 LTIP award, which will be eligible to vest from November 2017 in respect of the three-year performance period ended 1 July 2017.
In the period 1 July 2017 to 6 September 2017, David Browns ordinary shareholding increased from 66,011 to 66,028 as a result of shares purchased under the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
There have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the executive directors between 1 July 2017 and the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Executive directors interests in outstanding share awards and options audited The table below sets out details of the executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance conditions and or continued service.
David Browns sharesave options which were granted in 2014 matured in May 2017 and David has until 25 October 2017 to exercise his sharesave options.
The 2013 14 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards were exercised on 16 November 2016 with a share price of 20.333.
David Browns gain on his 2013 14 DSBP and LTIP awards were therefore 90,116 and 557,429 respectively.
Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher Awards eligible Vested in for vesting 2016 17 Mid-market 2015 16 but Date price on date Option Balance at Granted in exercised Lapsed in Balance at Balance post Plan of grant of grant price 2 July 2016 year during year year 1 July 2017 Vested Lapsed exercise Deferred share bonus plan 15.11.16 20.81 6,770 6,770 6,770 LTIP 16.11.16 20.47 18,073 18,073 18,073 Total 24,843 24,843 24,843 Payments to former directors and payments for loss of office audited There were no payments made to former executive directors during the year ended 1 July 2017 2016: nil.
Percentage change in the Group Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives total remuneration between the financial years 2 July 2016 and 1 July 2017, compared to the average change for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2016 to 2017 Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive 0.6 Average employees 2.6 2.1 92 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group Chief Executive remuneration comparison Annual performanceLong term related bonus actual incentive vesting award v maximum vesting v maximum opportunity opportunity Single total figure of Year Group Chief Executive remuneration 000 000 and % vesting 000 and % vesting 1 2016 17 David Brown 801 0 239 54% 2 3 2015 16 David Brown 1,214 0 647 90% 2 2014 15 David Brown 2,134 558 69.6% 1,067 100.0% 2013 14 David Brown 1,960 766 97.5% 666 80.0% 2012 13 David Brown 942 422 55.3% 2011 12 David Brown 1,022 513 68.0% 4 2010 11 David Brown 251 125 100.0% 2010 11 Keith Ludeman 1,564 530 100.0% 1.
The single total figure of remuneration for 2016 17 includes the vesting of the 2014 15 LTIP award.
At the request of the Group Chief Executive, there was no annual performance-related bonus paid for the year ended 1 July 2017.
The Group Chief Executive received a 2% base salary increase with effect from 1 April 2017.
The single total figure of remuneration for 2015 16 restated and 2014 15 includes the vesting of the 2013 14 and 2012 13 LTIP awards respectively.
Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the Group Chief Executives 2013 14 LTIP award which was 557,429 based on the share price as at 16 November 2016 of 20.333.
Following his appointment in April 2011, the Group Chief Executive was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year2010 11.
The relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, compared to that of the previous year.
2016 17 2015 16 % m m change Dividends 41.8 39.4 6.1 Overall expenditure on pay 1,237.6 1,170.3 5.8 Restated from 1,215.5m for the change in accounting policy regarding rail pensions as explained in note 3 of the financial statements.
The Group has not made any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
Total shareholder return TSR performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index for the last eight financial years to 1 July 2017.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR, the Board believes the FTSE 250 index comparator group it has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
The Go-Ahead Group plc FTSE 250 Index Peer group average return 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the Group Chief Executive over the same eight year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the performance-related bonus and LTIP awards and the percentage of the maximum opportunity that these represent.
com 93 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Chairman and non-executive director fees The fee level for the Chairman was reviewed on 1 April 2017 and increased by 2%.
The fee levels for the non-executive directors were also reviewed on 1 April 2017 and increased by 4.2%, with the additional fees for chairing the remuneration and audit committees also increased to 8,000.
These increases were made to reflect the additional time commitment and responsibilities now attributable to these roles, which remain below the FTSE 250 median.
There was no change to the additional fee paid to the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fee for Senior Additional fee Independent for chairing a Non-executive director Base fee Director committee Total Andrew Allner From 1 April 2017 000 p. a.
48 5 53 The base fee for the Chairman as at 1 April 2016 is restated from last years Annual Report which incorrectly reflected the Chairmans single figure of 173,000 rather than the 2% increase to his base fee.
Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 1 July 2017 and the prior year: Single total remuneration figure 000 Non-executive director 2017 2016 Andrew Allner 177 173 Katherine Innes Ker 59 54 Nick Horler 48 47 Adrian Ewer 54 53 Non-executive directors shareholdings audited Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
The shareholdings of each non-executive director are as follows: As at As at 2 July 1 July 2017 2016 Andrew Allner 1,242 742 Katherine Innes Ker 116 116 Nick Horler 1,038 1,038 Adrian Ewer 3,003 138 Material contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a director of the Group was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 18 Details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2017 18 financial year are set out below.
2017 18 base salaries The base salaries of the executive directors will remain unchanged until the next review on 1 April 2018.
Benefits The benefits for both executive directors will remain consistent with those detailed in the remuneration policy section on pages 82 and 83.
Pension The current pension arrangements described on page 90 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
94 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2017 18 Performance-related bonus The performance measures and weightings for 2017 18 which remain unchanged from 2016 17 are as follows: Metric Weighting % of maximum bonus Operating profit 65% Group cashflow 10% Strategic KPIs 25% Operating profit, cashflow and strategic KPI targets will be stretching for the 2017 18 financial year and more information on the specifictargets and performance against them will be provided retrospectively in next years remuneration report to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive at thetime.
The strategic KPIs include a number of non-financial strategic and personal objectives, including customer satisfaction, communication and reputational KPIs.
A health and safety target threshold will continue to apply to the full bonus, with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
The additional rail customer service threshold introduced from 2016 17 will also continue to apply to the 2017 18 bonus.
The remuneration committee has discretion to scale back the bonus if customer satisfaction across the Groups train operating companies in Spring 2018, as measured by the Transport Focus National Rail Passenger Survey NRPS averaged across the Groups train operating companies Southeastern, Southern, Thameslink and Great Northern, Gatwick Express and London Midland, is less than the London and South East Sector NRPS reported for Spring 2017.
Any bonus payable will be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply to the full performance-related bonus and the audit committee will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit and budget review in conjunction with the auditor before approval of any bonus payment.
2017 18 LTIP awards The structure of LTIP awards to be granted in 2017 will remainthe same as for the 2016 awards with the EPS and TSR elements of the awards accounting for 40% each and a customer satisfaction target award of 20% split equally between rail and bus.
The LTIP award will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following vesting.
An additional two year holding period following the vesting of awards will also apply during which any vested awards may not be sold other than to pay any tax and NICs due on exercise.
This will result in an overall five year period before executives can realise the gain on vested shares.
For the year commencing 2 July 2017, the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer will have a face value of 150% and 100% of salary respectively.
The EPS and TSR performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2017 18 are detailed below and are unchanged from those made in 2016 17 when the committee consulted with major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on proposed changes to the LTIPs threshold and maxima EPS metrics in response to the revised outlook for GTR analysts repositioning of their forecasts.
The bus customer service targets are unchanged, with the rail customer service targets increased to reflect a higher threshold based on an increase in the Spring 2017 London and South East Sector NRPS score.
Relative TSR vs Compound FTSE 250 Payout % of each EPS payout % of annual growth in Payout % of TSR excluding certain customer Rail customer Bus customer element EPS element sectors element service target service target Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 10% 10% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 0% Below median 0% Less than Less than 2% p. a.
25% Median 10% 82% 90% Between threshold Between 10% Between RPI Between 25% Between Between 10% Between 82% Between 90% and maximum and 100% 2% p. a. and and 100% median and and 100% and 86% and 93% RPI 10% p. a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 10% p. a.
100% Upper quartile 100% 86% 93% The committee is not proposing any changes to remuneration policy for the financial year 2017 18.
Non-executive directors fees The non-executive directors fees will remain unchanged until the next annual fee review is undertaken on 1 April 2018.
Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chair 6 September 2017 www.
