Remuneration Report How Our Policy is linked to Our Strategy GROUP STRATEGY DELIVER SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH LONG TERM, SUSTAINABLE, PROFITABLE GROWTH Remuneration strategy Remuneration structure z Pay fairly for an individuals role and responsibilities z Base pay and benets at median or below z Reward strong performance z Annual bonus at median z Focus on long term value creation z Long Term Incentive Plan at upper quartile z Align Executives with shareholders through share z Two thirds of variable pay retained in shares for duration ownership of employment and half of these for a further two years The principles behind, and the reasons for, the overall remuneration structure that we have adopted for our Executive Directors are directly related to our long term strategic goal of delivering shareholder value through the profitable growth of a quality business.
Since the otation of the Company our Executive remuneration has been structured specically: z To pay fairly and appropriately for an individuals role and responsibilities z To reward strong performance z To be focused on long term value creation z To align Executives strongly with shareholders through share ownership The majority of the Executive Directors potential remuneration is variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder return.
Discretion is allowed in certain circumstances to ensure rewards are appropriate and overall levels of pay are analysed carefully each year.
This is consistent with the creation of long term, sustainable growth in shareholder value through delivery of the objectives set out in our corporate strategy, which are all long term in nature: namely to become the UK customers number one choice for homewares and furniture, and to double our sales and profit over the medium term.
Our approach is also in keeping with the family origin of the business, and is important to the Adderley family who remain our majority shareholders.
It is our intention to maintain a simple and transparent remuneration structure for the benefit of all parties.
Proposed changes to our 2015 Remuneration Policy Our current Remuneration Policy the 2015 Policy was Board Chairman, and the Company Secretary where approved at the Annual General Meeting on 24 November requested.
The shareholders and their representatives who 2015 with over 97% of the votes cast in favour of it, and has wished to engage with us were supportive of the changes.
been applied to remuneration paid to Executive Directors in The following changes to our 2015 Policy are being proposed FY 2016 and FY2017.
for approval at the Annual General Meeting in November We are now proposing to make some changes to our 2017 although, with the exception of the changes proposed 2015 Policy as set out below.
We wrote to shareholders regarding Special Dividend equivalents under the LTIP, and representing 90% of our share register in the early summer of the pension entitlement for new Directors, these changes will 2017 proposing the changes set out below, as well as to their not be effected until September 2018. representative bodies, and followed this up with conference calls with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the 72 dunelm.
indd 72 06 10 2017 12:12:03 Governance Policy change Rationale for change Since the 2015 Policy was introduced, the Group has reviewed and refined its Long Term Incentive Plan performance criteria strategy.
As we move towards our target of 200 stores, the ability to grow rapidly through store openings reduces, and delivering growth in percentage The 2015 Policy states that the performance terms from a larger business becomes more demanding.
criteria applicable to each award will be growth in EPS compared with growth in RPI We have therefore implemented and invested in a number of strategic over the three year performance period.
The initiatives designed to grow and strengthen the Groups business over the performance range is stated to be EPS growth medium and long term.
We expect that our recent Worldstores acquisition will of RPI plus 3% per annum threshold, 10% of re-energise our growth, transforming the business into a multichannel retailer.
award to vest to EPS growth of RPI plus 15% Our earnings growth has been impacted by the maturity of our business model per annum 100% of award to vest.
and the investments we are making to revitalise future growth, including our The proposal in the 2017 Policy is for the top acquisition of the Worldstores businesses.
end of the EPS range to be reduced, so that As a result, the Remuneration Committee now considers that the top end of the the performance range would be annual EPS performance range of RPI plus 15% is no longer in line with our policy to pay growth of RPI plus 3% to annual EPS growth of our Executive Directors fairly and reward them for strong performance.
view is that to provide a fair and meaningful incentive the top of the range is too high.
Vesting for achieving the threshold level of performance will remain at 10% of the Our proposal therefore is that, for the awards to be made from the autumn maximum.
of 2018 for the FY19FY21 performance period onwards, the top end This will apply to awards made from 2018 of the performance range only will be reduced to EPS growth of RPI onwards in respect of the FY19FY21 plus 12% per annum.
Our view is that from FY19, delivery of compound performance period, and future performance annual earnings growth of RPI plus 12% will result in the same level of periods only.
The targets in the 2015 Policy will stretch performance being required to achieve full vesting as was intended be retained for the awards to be made in 2017 in our 2015 Policy.
If achieved, it would also deliver returns to shareholders for the FY18FY20 performance period.
substantially above current analyst expectations.
The Remuneration Committee has decided not to implement this change until 2018 for the following reasons: In the financial year ended June 2017 FY17, the investments that we have made in our core business, and the costs of integrating and absorbing the losses in Worldstores, have meant that profits declined year on year.
We have also incurred an exceptional item of 17m in the year relating to the Worldstores acquisition, and expect a further exceptional item of 7m in the year to June 2018.
We have agreed that for the purposes of measuring performance against LTIP targets we will use the statutory EPS figure.
While we expect profit growth to resume in 2018, the profit and EPS decline in 2017 will mean that LTIP awards due to vest in 2017 will lapse.
It is also likely that awards due to vest in 2018 and 2019 will lapse.
Consequently, it is likely that no LTIP share based awards will vest to the Executive Directors and senior management until 2020.
This also means that the EPS for the base year of measurement in respect of the awards to be made in 2017 for the performance period FY18FY20 of 36.1p is unusually low.
If management complete their objectives of integrating and turning around the Worldstores businesses, delivering the other strategic business plans described in this report, and continuing to grow the core business ahead of the market, this would result in a double digit CAGR in EPS over the three year period to June 2020 in view of this low base.
Recognising the scale of the management challenge required to deliver this performance and the current uncertain market conditions, the Remuneration Committee considers that a target range of RPI plus 3% to RPI plus 15% continues to be appropriately stretching for the 2017 award, but that the reduction in the top of the range should commence with effect from the 2018 award.
73 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 73 06 10 2017 12:12:03 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Policy change Rationale for change Our 2015 Policy provided that each of our Executive Directors should receive a Long Term Incentive Plan fixed number of shares fixed number of shares under the LTIP, rather than the usual number linked to a percentage of salary.
This means that the number of shares is highly geared to The 2015 Policy provides for each of the Chief the share price, with a greater potential upside and downside.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer to receive an award over a fixed number of shares each When we introduced the fixed number of shares in our 2015 Policy, we agreed year rather than an award determined as a to review this practice in 2018.
Since the 2015 Policy was adopted, the Brexit percentage of salary.
The fixed number of vote has resulted in a general market downgrade of shares in the UK retail shares contained in the 2015 Policy was based sector, recognising the specific impact that slower sales and increased costs are on a number equivalent to 200% of salary for the likely to have on this sector due to the devaluation of sterling.
As a result, the Chief Executive and 160% of salary for the Chief potential value of an LTIP award based on the fixed numbers in the 2015 Policy Financial Officer, based on the share price at is now significantly lower than 200% 160% of salary respectively, and no longer the start of the performance period for the in line with the policy objectives to pay fairly and appropriately and reward FY16FY18 awards.
The Remuneration Committee therefore considers that it would be appropriate to revert to a more usual arrangement based on awards Our 2017 proposal is to revert to a more equivalent to a percentage of shares and we propose up to 200% of salary for standard structure of granting an award over each of the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
We have increased shares with a value equivalent to a percentage of the potential award for our Chief Financial Officer, Keith Down, to reflect the salary up to 200% of salary per annum.
increased size of his role in co-ordinating the Business Plans and the integration This will apply to awards made from 2018 of the Worldstores businesses.
onwards in respect of the FY19FY21 Recognising that the 2015 Policy provided for the fixed number of shares to performance period and future performance remain in place for three years, the Remuneration Committee has decided to periods.
No change will be made to in-flight implement the change in respect of the awards to be made in 2018 for the awards.
FY19FY21 performance period, in line with our original review timetable.
We are seeking approval for the policy change now to avoid making piecemeal changes to the policy.
Long term incentive plan To align the reward delivered to management with the returns achieved by special dividend equivalents shareholders, and to ensure that management are not disincentivised from taking actions which are in the best interests of shareholders.
We are applying We propose to include in the 2017 Policy the this to in-flight awards as well as future awards because we consider that failure ability to pay dividend equivalents in respect of to include the ability to pay special dividend equivalents was an oversight in our special dividends that are paid between the start 2015 Policy.
of the performance period and up to the vesting date of an LTIP award.
Dividend equivalents The Committee recognises that the inclusion of dividend accruals on any vested would be paid in respect of shares which vest awards increases the expected value of the award.
However, the Committee is only.
comfortable that the proposed amendment is appropriate as it is in line with practice adopted by other companies, it provides a relatively modest benefit to This change will apply to awards which vest after participants, and its effect is to align further the position of LTIP award holders the 2017 Policy comes into effect.
The policy will not apply to ordinary dividends.
Pension entitlement The Remuneration Committee has taken into account the views recently expressed by a number of institutional shareholders and their representatives We propose to reduce the maximum pension that there should be greater alignment of the pension entitlement of Executive entitlement of Executive Directors from 20% Directors with that of other employees.
of salary to 15% of salary, for newly appointed directors only please note that Keith Downs current pension entitlement is 15% of salary.
indd 74 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Governance Introduction This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three on and how policy will be applied in the coming year.
This sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration report will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual Committee, set out on page 70: the Policy Report: and the General Meeting in November 2017, although the vote on the Annual Report on Implementation.
The Policy Report sets out the proposed 2017 Remuneration This report complies with the provisions of the Companies Policy to apply with effect from the close of the Annual Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized General Meeting in 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013 as amended, as well as the UK Corporate Governance The Annual Report on Implementation sets out how the Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
policies approved in November 2014 and November 2015 have been applied during the financial year being reported The Policy Report Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 The policy in place at the date of this report the 2015 Policy took binding effect from the date of its approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 24 November 2015.
The policy set out below the 2017 Policy is the policy that is proposed to apply from November 2017, subject to shareholder approval being obtained at the Annual General Meeting.
The differences between the 2015 Policy and the 2017 Policy are summarised above in the section headed Proposed changes to our 2015 Remuneration Policy.
The information contained in this report is unaudited unless specically stated as being audited.
Future policy table The following table sets out the structure of remuneration for Directors of the Company.
Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to z Fixed remuneration for the role strategic objectives z To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy z Reects the size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities Operation z Normally paid monthly z Base level set in the context of: Z Pay for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the relevant market Z Scale and complexity of the role z Should comprise a minority of potential remuneration Maximum z Reviewed annually, with percentage increases in line with the Company-wide review unless other opportunity circumstances apply, such as: Z A significant change in the size, scale or complexity of the role or of the Companys business Z Development and performance in role for example on a new appointment base salary might be initially set at a lower level with the intention of increasing over time z The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a monetary limit on the maximum base salary that may be paid to an Executive Director within the terms of this policy Performance metrics z None, although performance of the individual is considered at the annual salary review z No recovery provisions apply to base salary Retirement benefits Purpose and link to z To provide a competitive post-retirement benefit strategic objectives z To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy Operation z Contribution equivalent to a percentage of base salary made to a dened contribution plan or paid as a cash allowance Maximum z Up to 15% of base salary for Executive Directors appointed from November 2017 onwards.
opportunity For Executive Directors appointed prior to that the maximum is 20% of base salary.
No element other than base salary is pensionable Performance metrics z None z No recovery provisions apply to retirement benets 75 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 75 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Executive Directors continued Benets Purpose and link to z To provide a competitive benets package strategic objectives z To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy Operation z A range of benets are provided, which may include car or car allowance: private health insurance for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone: use of a car and driver in connection with the role: colleague discount z Additional benets, such as relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee z For non-UK Executives none at present the Committee may consider additional allowances in accordance with standard practice Maximum z Current benets provided are described in the Annual Report on Implementation on page 87 opportunity z The Committee reserves the right to provide such benets as it considers necessary to support the strategy of the Company z The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a maximum cost to the Company of benets to be paid Performance metrics z None z No recovery provisions apply to benets Annual bonus awards to be made to Executive Directors other than Will Adderley, who has requested that he not be considered for annual bonus.
Purpose and link to z Rewards and incentivises delivery of annual financial, strategic and personal targets strategic objectives Operation z Paid in cash, after the results for the financial year have been audited, subject to performance targets having been met z Two-thirds of bonus earned must be invested in Dunelm shares after tax and national insurance obligations have been met Maximum z Maximum opportunity 125% of base salary per annum opportunity z For on target performance 40% of maximum opportunity z For threshold performance 5% of maximum opportunity Performance metrics z Stretching performance targets are set each year.
Performance targets for the Executive Directors are typically based on financial and strategic objectives set by the Remuneration Committee annually z Financial objectives include, but are not limited to, budgeted PBT for the financial year taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations z The strategic objectives will vary depending on the specic business priorities in a particular year z Typically, the majority of the annual bonus for Executives is subject to financial objectives z Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the year in respect of which the bonus is paid, or if there has been an error in calculating performance, or in the case of gross misconduct z The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to claw back the bonus up to three years after payment in the above circumstances and in cases of fraud, the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time 76 dunelm.
indd 76 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Governance Executive Directors continued Long Term Incentive Plan awards to be made to Executive Directors other than Will Adderley, who has requested that he not be considered for LTIP awards.
Purpose and link to z Supports delivery of strategy by targeting EPS growth, which the Committee believes to be strategic objectives closely aligned to the drivers of growth in the business over the long term z Rewards strong financial performance and sustained increase in shareholder value over the long term z Aligns with shareholder interests through the delivery of shares, the majority of which after payment of tax liabilities are retained Operation z Conditional awards are made annually which can take the form of a conditional award, nil-cost option or nominal value option, with vesting subject to performance over three financial years z Two-thirds of all shares vesting must be retained by the Executive after sale of shares to meet tax and national insurance obligations Maximum z For awards to be made in respect of the FY18FY20 performance period, the maximum annual opportunity award is 110,000 shares for the Chief Executive and 60,000 shares for the Chief Financial officer, subject in either case to such adjustment as the Committee determines to take account of any variation in the Companys share capital z For awards to be made in respect of the FY-19FY21 performance period and awards to be made in future years, the maximum annual award for Executive Directors is shares with a value up to 200% of salary, calculated by reference to the market price of Dunelm shares on the date preceding the date of grant z For threshold performance: 10% of the award will vest z For maximum performance: 100% of the award will vest z Straight-line vesting between the threshold and maximum levels will apply for performance between threshold and maximum points z Dividend accruals may be made in respect of special dividends paid during the performance period applicable to an award and up to the vesting date.
Payment would only be made in respect of shares vesting after applying performance criteria.
This will apply to all awards vesting after the 2017 Policy comes into effect Performance metrics z Growth in fully diluted EPS over the three year performance period compared with growth in the index of retail prices RPI over the same period z The Remuneration Committee considers the target annually taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations z For information, the target applicable to awards to be made are: Z No part of the award will vest until compound annual EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
Z For awards to be made in respect of the FY18FY20 performance period, 10% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 3%.
100% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 15%.
Z For awards to be made in respect of the FY19FY21 performance period, and for awards made in future years, 10% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 3%.
100% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 12%.
Z Between those gures the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
z Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the performance period to which the award relates, or if there has been an error in calculating performance or in the case of gross misconduct z The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to claw back vested awards for up to three years from vesting in these circumstances and in cases of fraud, the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time 77 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 77 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Executive Directors continued Lifetime Lock-in and personal shareholding targets Purpose and link to z Aligns with shareholder interests through shareholding and promotes long term thinking strategic objectives Operation z Executive Directors are required to build a beneficial holding of shares equal to 100% of salary after three years and 200% of salary after five years from appointment z A personal investment in Dunelm shares should be made on appointment as an Executive Director subject to closed periods z Two-thirds of amounts earned under the annual bonus and the LTIP after payment of tax and national insurance must be retained in Dunelm shares z These shares must be held during employment and at least 50% of them retained for at least two years after employment ends z The Remuneration Committee retains the right to waive this requirement in exceptional circumstances, such as death, divorce, ill health or severe financial hardship Maximum z Not applicable opportunity Performance metrics z Not applicable All employee share plan Sharesave Purpose and link to z Promotes share ownership by all eligible colleagues including Executive Directors strategic objectives Operation z All UK employees with a minimum service requirement are eligible to join the UK tax approved Dunelm Group Savings Related Share Option Plan the Sharesave z Monthly savings are made over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Dunelm shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price or such other amount as permitted by law at the date of invitation to join the plan z Invitations are normally issued annually at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also has discretion to set the minimum service requirement, maximum discount, maximum monthly savings and any other limits such as scaling back within the terms of the scheme rules Maximum z Maximum participation limits are set by the UK tax authorities.
Currently the maximum limit is opportunity savings of 500 per month Performance metrics z None 78 dunelm.
indd 78 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Governance Non-Executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to z To attract and retain a high calibre Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by offering competitive strategic objectives fee levels Operation z Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director participates in any decision relating to his or her own remuneration z The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities z The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee, with supplemental fees for additional Board responsibilities z The level of fee reects the size and complexity of the role and the time commitment z Fees are reviewed annually and increased in line with the Company-wide increase.
In addition, there will be a periodic review against market rates and taking into account time commitment and any change in size, scale or complexity of the business z Flexibility is retained to increase fee levels in certain circumstances, for example, if required to recruit a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of the appropriate calibre z With the exception of colleague discount, no benets are paid to the Chairman or the NonExecutive Directors, and they do not participate in any incentive scheme Maximum z Maximum fees to be paid by way of fees to the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the opportunity Companys Articles of Association z Fees paid to each Director are disclosed in the Annual Report on Implementation Performance metrics z None The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of ofce notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and in relation to an award over shares, the terms of payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
This includes the satisfaction of the Joining Award granted to Keith Down on 7 December 2015 to compensate him for deferred shares earned with his previous employer which were forfeited when he resigned.
The Committee may also make minor changes to this policy which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval, but taking into account the interests of shareholders.
79 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 79 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Remuneration Report CONTINUED The Remuneration Committee considered the use of EPS Performance measures and how targets as a performance measure carefully when the Company are set was oated in 2006, and has discussed it with shareholders The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures regularly.
EPS is believed to be closely aligned to the that it believes are: drivers of growth for the business and in the long term, EPS z Aligned with the Groups strategic goals performance is expected to be reected in shareholder value.
EPS is a more suitable performance measure for z Unambiguous and easy to calculate Dunelm than for many other companies and it is therefore z Transparent to Directors and shareholders considered appropriate to use it as a single measure for the Annual bonus LTIP.
The use of EPS as a primary measure for Dunelms LTIP is considered appropriate because of the low level of leverage For the financial year 2017 18, 80% of the annual bonus is in the business and because the capital expenditure controls linked to PBT and 20% to personal and strategic objectives.
exercised by the Board are sufciently rigorous to avoid EPS Each Directors annual bonus is therefore linked primarily to accretion by means of ineffective investment of capital.
delivery of Group financial performance, but also to personal performance and contribution to the strategic progress The number of shares comprised in an award or the of the Group.
The PBT target is set by the Remuneration performance target which applies may be adjusted by the Committee each year, taking into account market consensus Remuneration Committee in accordance with the plan rules and broker expectations.
Personal and strategic objectives if justied by the circumstances, for example, if there were a are set at the commencement of the year and assessed by the major capital transaction.
Any amendment and the reason for Remuneration Committee.
it would be fully disclosed.
A copy of the plan rules is available from the Company Secretary on request.
The Committee reserves the right to adjust the financial performance target or change the performance condition if justied by the circumstances, for example if there was a major capital transaction.
For future years, the Committee will determine the financial measures and the weighting of financial and non-financial measures based on specic business priorities in a particular year.
LTIP The EPS target for the LTIP is based on growth in fully diluted EPS compared to the increase in the Index of Retail Prices RPI over each performance period.
The targets that apply to awards are set out in the Policy table on page 77.
indd 80 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Governance Illustrative performance scenarios Following the year end John Browett stepped down as Chief Executive.
Interim leadership will be provided by Andy Harrison, Chairman, and Will Adderley, Deputy Chairman, but both have requested that their current remuneration arrangements remain unchanged during this temporary period.
Therefore, the following graphs set out what each of the executives could earn in the financial year 2017 18 under the following scenarios: Keith Down Will Adderley 1,248k 29% 830k 25% 36% 22% 440k 440k 100% 53% 35% LTIP 21k 21k 21k Annual bonus Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum Fixed pay expectations expectations The following assumptions have been made in respect of the Will Adderley has requested that his annual salary be scenarios above: maintained at 1 per annum, and he has waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award.
Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay comprising base salary, benets and pension only with no It should be noted that the illustrative performance number is vesting under the annual cash bonus or LTIP see table below.
likely to be different to the actual pay that is earned by Keith Down during the year: Pension z Actual pay will reect Company and personal performance Base Benefits 20% 15% of last known as in single last known over the relevant performance period salary figure table salary z We are required to show the value of the LTIP awards that 000 000 000 are expected to be made in the year, not those which will Will Adderley 21 actually vest.
This valuation is based on the expected face 1 Keith Down 364 21 55 value of the date of grant without making any assumptions 1 for share price growth, and assuming that the award vests 15% of salary reecting pension provision for 2017 18. in full at the end of the three year performance period In line with expectations Fixed pay plus annual cash bonus z The value of the LTIP award to be made is based on the at on target performance of 40% of maximum opportunity average price of a Dunelm share over the three months to i. e. 50% of salary and vesting of 59% of the award of shares 1 July 2017, which was 587.9p and the grant to Keith Down under the LTIP.
of an award over 60,000 shares the actual share price at Maximum performance Fixed pay plus 100% of maximum date of award is likely to differ annual bonus opportunity i. e. 125% of salary and 100% of z No adjustment is made for payment of special dividend shares vesting under the LTIP.
equivalents as the level of these cannot be determined at the date of this report Please note that two-thirds of performance pay earned by Keith Down after payment of tax and national insurance liability must be invested in Dunelm shares pursuant to the Lifetime Lock-in.
81 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 81 06 10 2017 12:12:04 Total remuneration '000 Remuneration Report CONTINUED The limited circumstances in which unexercised LTIP Recovery awards might be exercised following termination of an There is provision for recovery of variable pay, as highlighted Executive Directors service contract are set out below.
the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, recovery allow exercise of an unvested LTIP award, it may make a malus may be made against any unpaid cash bonus or cash payment in lieu of the anticipated value of the award, unvested LTIP options in the following circumstances: calculated at the date of the payment taking into account prorating of the award and the extent to which performance z performance to which a bonus or LTIP award relates proves criteria may apply, as appropriate.
to have been misstated or z there has been a miscalculation in the extent to which Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The performance conditions have been met in respect of term is for an initial period of three years with a provision for previous awards made to the individual that have vested termination on one months notice from either party, or three and been exercised or months notice from either party in the case of Andy Harrison, the Chairman.
Letters are renewed for up to two additional z there has been gross misconduct on the part of the three year terms, and then renewed annually.
The letter of individual appointment will terminate without compensation if the Clawback may be operated at the discretion of the Director is not reappointed at the AGM.
Remuneration Committee against all variable awards in the The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment above circumstances, for up to three years from payment or are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys vesting as appropriate: and in cases of fraud the Committee registered ofce.
can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time.
Exercise of LTIP and Sharesave options Salary, pension, benets and Sharesave options are not subject to recovery.
following termination of employment LTIP Service contracts and loss of If a participant leaves the employment of the Group, the office payments following provisions apply to options granted under the LTIP: All of the Executive Directors have service contracts.
The z Options that have vested but have not yet been exercised notice period for termination for Will Adderley is 12 months may be exercised within six months of cessation of from either party, and for Keith Down is six months from employment 12 months in the case of death either party.
If the Company terminates the employment z Except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, of the Executive Director it would honour its contractual commitment.
Any payment of salary on termination is options which have not yet vested, but where the performance period has elapsed for example if contractually restricted to a maximum of the value of salary plus benets for the notice period.
If termination was with cessation of employment occurs during the deferral period applicable to LTIP options granted to David Stead immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be made.
The Remuneration Committee may apply mitigation in respect former Finance Director from 2013 onwards, may be exercised within six months of the relevant vesting date of any termination payment.
or 12 months in the case of death, to the extent that the The Remuneration Committee has discretion to make a performance condition has been met.
The Remuneration payment in respect of annual bonus, provided that it is proCommittee has discretion to allow earlier exercise but rated to service.
would only use this in exceptional circumstances such as death or ill health retirement, or at its discretion for a good leaver 82 dunelm.
indd 82 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Governance z If the participant leaves the Group before an option has Change of control and other vested and before the performance period has elapsed, corporate events the option will usually lapse.
Except in the case of dismissal LTIP for gross misconduct, the Remuneration Committee has The following provisions apply to awards made under the the discretion to allow the exercise of options for which Long Term Incentive Plan in accordance with the Plan rules if the performance period has not elapsed at the date of there is a change of control or winding up of the Company: cessation of employment, within six months of the relevant vesting date or 12 months in the case of death.
The z Any vested but unexercised options may be exercised Remuneration Committee also has discretion to allow z Any options in respect of which the performance period earlier exercise.
The Remuneration Committee would only has elapsed and to which the performance condition has use this discretion in exceptional circumstances such as been applied will vest and may be exercised death or ill health retirement, or at its discretion for a z Any options in respect of which the performance period good leaver has not elapsed may be exercised at the discretion of the z If early exercise is permitted, the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee, subject to any adjustment to may apply an adjustment to take into account the amount take into account the amount of time that has elapsed of time that has elapsed through the performance period through the performance period and the extent to which and the extent to which any performance criteria have any performance criteria have been met been met z The Executive Director may agree that his or her awards In all cases, unexercised LTIP awards would be subject to are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as recovery malus in the relevant circumstances.
In respect of an alternative LTIP awards made after 1 July 2014, clawback may also apply If the Company has been or will be affected by any demerger, to vested awards.
dividend in specie, special dividend or other transaction which will adversely affect the current or future value of any Sharesave awards under the LTIP, the Plan rules allow the Remuneration If a participant leaves the Group, options granted under the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine the Sharesave will normally lapse, but may be exercised within extent to which any awards should vest and the period within six months from the cessation of employment due to death, which Options may be exercised.
injury, disability, retirement, or redundancy or 12 months in the case of death, or the employing company leaving A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company the Group or, provided that the option has been held for at Secretary on request.
least three years, cessation for any other reason apart from dismissal by the Company.
Joining award granted to Keith Down on 7 December 2015 If Keith Down leaves the employment of the Group prior to vesting of the joining award it will lapse if he leaves due to resignation, or he is dismissed for misconduct.
If he leaves for any other reason it will vest on the normal vesting date and be exercisable for six months if it has not already vested, although the Committee retains discretion to permit the award to vest earlier.
If Keith leaves other than due to resignation or dismissal for misconduct after the award vested, it will be exercisable for six months after cessation.
83 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 83 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Remuneration Report CONTINUED In setting the policy for the Executive Directors remuneration, Sharesave the Committee takes note of the overall approach to Sharesave options may be exercised within six months remuneration in the Group.
The Committee also has formal following a change of control or winding up of the Company, oversight of the remuneration of Executive Board members.
using savings in the participants account at the date of exercise.
The participant may agree that his or her awards The base salary of Executive Directors may be increased are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as an annually in line with the Company-wide award unless other alternative.
circumstances apply, as set out in the policy table.
If the Company has been or will be affected by a The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction, in relation to executive pay.
However, colleagues have the consolidation, special dividend or other variation in respect opportunity to raise any concerns via the People Director, or of which HMRC will allow the variation of options, the Plan anonymously through our engagement survey, which includes rules allow the Remuneration Committee, with the consent a specic question relating to fairness of pay relative to other of HMRC, to vary the number and or nominal value of colleagues.
Recent engagement surveys have not identied shares covered by an option or the option price to be varied executive pay to be a concern to colleagues.
will be considering how it can engage directly with colleagues during the coming year.
A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company Secretary on request.
Shareholder views Joining award granted to Keith Down on The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders in respect of all governance matters, including 7 December 2015 executive remuneration.
If there is a change of control or winding up of the Company, shares subject to the award will vest and may be exercised In addition to this, the Company holds a Corporate in full.
Governance Day, usually every two years, hosted by the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the other Non-Executive The Executive may agree that his awards are rolled over into Directors, to which all major shareholders are invited.
This shares of the acquiring company as an alternative.
enables both parties to discuss governance topics informally, Executive pay and the pay of other including remuneration.
In addition, the Chairman and Noncolleagues Executive Directors usually attend results presentations and a selection of shareholder meetings.
Pay for all colleagues throughout the Group is set at a level that is fair for the role and responsibilities of the individual, and is Formal feedback on shareholder views is given to the Board designed to attract and retain high calibre talent that is needed twice per annum by the Companys brokers and financial to deliver the Groups strategy, without paying too much.
The AGM reports issued by the Investment Association IA, the Pension and Lifetime Savings The remuneration of Executive Directors is more heavily Association, ISS and Pensions Investment Research Council weighted towards variable pay than other colleagues, so PIRC are also considered by the Board.
that a greater part of their pay is linked to successful delivery of strategy and aligned with shareholders.
They are also All Directors usually attend the Annual General Meeting, and required to retain two-thirds of post-tax performance pay in the Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dunelm shares to be held for the duration of employment may be contacted via the Company Secretary during the year.
and beyond, and are subject to higher personal shareholding targets.
If any significant change to policy were proposed, the Committee would consult with major shareholders in The remuneration of colleagues below the Board reects the advance.
Shareholders were consulted prior to putting seniority of the role, market practice and the ability of the forward both the 2015 Policy and the 2017 Policy for approval.
individual to inuence Company performance.
All eligible colleagues are encouraged to participate in the Sharesave plan, which enables them to become shareholders at a discounted rate.
Participation is usually offered annually at the maximum price discount permitted currently 20%, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
indd 84 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Governance z An internal candidate would be able to retain any Approach to recruitment remuneration outstanding variable pay awarded in respect of their The Remuneration Committee will apply the following previous role that pays out in accordance with its terms principles when agreeing a remuneration package for a of grant new Director whether an external candidate or an internal z Appropriate costs and support will be provided if the promotion : recruitment requires the relocation of the individual z The package must be sufficient to attract and retain the high calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the As stated above, newly recruited Executive Directors would Companys strategy now be subject to a reduced maximum pension entitlement of 15% of base salary.
z No more should be paid than is necessary z In accordance with the policy, the maximum pension The maximum level of variable pay that could be awarded entitlement or cash allowance for a newly appointed to a new Executive Director in the first year of employment, Executive Director will be 15% of salary excluding any buyout arrangements, would normally be in line with the policy table set out on pages 76 to 78.
The z Remuneration should be in line with the policy Committee would explain the rationale for the remuneration approved by shareholders set out above: however, the package in the next annual report of the Company.
Committee reserves the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to In addition, on hiring an external candidate the Committee meet the individual needs of the recruitment provided the may make arrangements to buy out remuneration that the Committee believes the relevant decisions are in the best individual has forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The interests of the Company Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards and payments on a comparable basis to remuneration These circumstances might include: arrangements forfeited.
These awards or payments are Where an interim appointment is made on a short term excluded from the maximum level of variable pay referred basis, including where the Chairman or another Nonto in the policy tables: however, the Committees intention is Executive Director has to assume an executive position that the value awarded or paid would be no higher than the Where employment commences at a time in the year expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
when it is inappropriate to provide a bonus or share In order to implement the arrangements described, the incentive award as there is insufficient time to assess Committee may rely on the exemption in Listing Rule 9.4.
2, performance, the quantum for the subsequent year which allows for the grant of share or share option awards might be increased proportionately instead to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a An executive is recruited from a business or location Director.
that offered benets that the Committee considers it appropriate to buy out but cannot do so under The Committee does not intend to use any discretion in the specic terms of the Regulations, or which the this section to make a non-performance related incentive Committee considers it appropriate to offer payment for example a golden hello.
Examples of remuneration decisions that the Committee may On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive make are set out below: Director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and pay for similar z It may be appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, with a roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the series of increases to reach the desired salary over a period market.
No share incentives or performance related incentives of time, subject to performance would be offered.
z A longer notice period of up to a maximum of 24 months might be offered, reducing by one month for every month served until the policy position is reached z The Committee may also alter the performance criteria applicable to the initial annual bonus or LTIP award so that they are more applicable to the circumstances of the recruitment 85 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 85 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Annual Report on Implementation This section of the report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders on 24 November 2015 has been applied in the financial year being reported on.
Committee membership and meetings The following Directors served on the Remuneration Committee during the year: Table 1 Committee membership Member Period from: To: Simon Emeny Chair 25 June 2007 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Five meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Table 2 Attendance at Committee meetings Meetings Member attended: Simon Emeny Chair 5 5 Liz Doherty 5 5 Andy Harrison 5 5 William Reeve 5 5 Peter Ruis 5 5 No Director ever participates when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
Advisers The Committee uses Deloitte for general advice in relation to executive remuneration on an ad hoc basis.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte does not have any other ongoing business relationship with the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that they have received from Deloitte in the year has been objective and independent.
Total fees paid to Deloitte for remuneration related work in the year were 10,780 2016: 6,400.
The Chief Executive attends Committee meetings by invitation to make recommendations as to the remuneration payable to below Board executives.
The People Director attends all meetings by invitation to advise on remuneration related issues and provide details of the remuneration applied throughout the Group so that a consistent approach can be adopted.
His basic salary, benets, pension and bonus for 2016 are pro-rated from that date.
2 David Stead retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
His basic salary, benets and pension for 2016 are pro-rated to that date.
He has received a time pro-rated percentage of his 2016 annual bonus entitlement, after applying the financial performance criteria over the full performance period and the personal performance criteria to the date of his cessation of employment.
Peter Ruis joined the Board on 10 September 2015.
His fees for 2016 are pro-rated from that date 3 Benets include the cost to the Company of a car allowance and private health insurance for the individual and their family.
4 Annual bonus is the amount earned in respect of the financial year 201617.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
John Browett left the Group on 29 August 2017 and the terms of his severance package, including whether or not he will be paid bonus for the 2017 financial year, have yet to be agreed.
Full disclosure will be made on the Companys website once terms have been agreed, and in next years annual report.
5 The LTIP award number for 2017 is the value of the LTIP award vesting whose three year performance period ends on the last day of the financial period being reported 201617.
Details of how this value was calculated are set out in the note to table 5.
The first LTIP grant to John Browett and Keith Down was made in December 2015.
Therefore, there are no LTIP awards vesting to them for 2017.
The comparable gure for 201516 is the actual value of the 2013 LTIP award which crystallised in favour of David Stead on 7 October 2016, based on the number of shares due after applying the performance criteria and pro-rating for time served, multiplied by the mid-market price on 7 October 2016, of 799.5p.
The comparable gure in the 201516 annual report was based on the number of shares in the 2012 LTIP award due to vest in favour of David Stead calculated using the average share price over the three months preceding the end of the performance period on 2 July 2016, which was 869.95p.
Note that this award is subject to a two year holding period, and David Stead may not exercise the award until 7 October 2018.
The gure shown for Keith Down in 2017 reects the value of tranche 1 of his Joining Award which vested on 15 September 2016.
6 Pension is 20% of base salary for John Browett, and 15% of base salary for Keith Down and 10% for David Stead.
Will Adderley waived his entitlement to pension from 1 July 2015.
7 From 1 July 2017, John Browett and Keith Downs base salary was increased by 2%, in line with the Company-wide award.
Will Adderleys base salary is held at 1 per annum.
The fee for the Chairman and the base fee for the other Non-Executive Directors were also increased by 2%.
The fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee was increased to 10,000.
The SID fee was increased by 2%.
87 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 87 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Annual bonus John Browett and Keith Down were awarded an annual performance-related cash bonus for 201617 with a maximum potential payment of 125% of salary.
The performance condition was linked to PBT versus budget 80%, and performance against personal and strategic objectives 20%.
Although not exercised this year, the Committee has the ability to apply judgement to increase or decrease the amount payable by application of the formula, although no more than the maximum potential opportunity would be paid.
As stated in note 4 to table 3 above, John Browett left the Group on 29 August 2017 and the terms of his severance package, including whether or not he will be paid bonus for the 2017 financial year, have yet to be agreed.
Will Adderley has waived his entitlement to bonus.
Financial target 80% of bonus opportunity For the period ended 1 July 2017, budget PBT was 134.0m.
The financial target set was such that no bonus would be paid until PBT reached 127.3m and maximum bonus would be paid at 140.7m.
Between those numbers, bonus would be payable calculated on a straight-line basis.
Market consensus for 201617 PBT at the date the target was set in early September 2016 was 133.6m.
PBT for 201617 was 92.4m, and pre exceptional items was 109.3m.
There was no payment in respect of this PBT element of the bonus.
In considering performance against targets for the purposes of the annual bonus, the Remuneration Committee has decided that PBT pre exceptional items should be used.
This is considered appropriate because exceptional items relating to the Worldstores acquisition were not known or contemplated when the original budget and targets were set.
However, this made no difference to the overall bonus outcome in 2016 17.
Strategic and personal objectives 20% of bonus opportunity The strategic and personal bonus targets were linked to progress against the eight Business Plans agreed by the Board in May 2016 and set out in last years annual report, and other supporting objectives.
Performance against these strategic and personal objectives was assessed as follows: Target Performance Delivery of material financial benefit from the eight A number of the planned milestones were achieved but overall Business Plans performance was mixed, partly due to conscious re-prioritisation of resource to focus on integration of the Worldstores businesses.
Information on progress against the eight Business Plans is set out in the Strategic Report Delivery of an exciting growth plan for FY19FY21 The Worldstores acquisition has accelerated the potential for online growth and development of the business.
A revised five year plan was agreed by the Board in May 2017.
Reinforce low cost culture A number of activities were progressed but there was a shortfall against targeted cost savings.
Deliver a clear articulation of the Dunelm Brand A new Brand identity was delivered and incorporated into the marketing programme.
Some planned brand marketing activity was deferred due to budget constraints.
Strengthen and develop the executive team A stable executive team is in place with a strengthened succession plan.
Key Worldstores management have been retained.
Upgrade the investor relations strategy Some progress made.
Planned Capital Markets Day deferred to Keith Down only October 2017 due to the Worldstores acquisition.
It was determined that 70% 2016: 100% of this element of the bonus had been earned, giving rise to a payment of 62,475 to Keith Down 2016: 49,774, pro-rated to service during the year.
As John Browett stepped down from the Board on 29 August 2017, his bonus of 89,250 2016: 125,000 may be paid in the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as part of his severance settlement.
At the date of this report severance terms are yet to be agreed and therefore it is not known whether some or all of this will be paid.
indd 88 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Governance Total bonus earned is set out in the table below: Table 4 Annual bonus earned in respect of 201617 performance Percentage Bonus of maximum awarded award Keith Down 62,475 14% Will Adderley waived entitlement N A Note: As John Browett, Chief Executive during the financial year, stepped down from the Board on 29 August 2017, his bonus of 89,250 2016: 125,000 may be paid in the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as part of his severance settlement.
LTIP awards earned in respect of performance in 201417 The only LTIP award which is due to mature in respect of 201417 performance is that granted to the former Chief Financial officer, David Stead in 2017, who retired on 31 December 2015.
The Remuneration Committee determined that as a good leaver, David would be entitled to receive part of this award, subject to performance criteria, and pro-rated by time served over the performance period the three financial years ended 1 July 2017.
In the case of the award maturing on 9 October 2017, and exercisable from 9 October 2019, this would equate to a maximum of 27,035 shares.
The performance criteria applicable to this award was based on growth in fully diluted EPS over the performance period.
For further information please see the policy report on page 77.
Over the three year performance period which ended on 1 July 2017, reported fully diluted EPS declined at a compound annual rate of 6.9%.
This is 8.2% below the compound annual growth in RPI over the same period.
Accordingly, the award granted to David Stead in October 2014 will lapse.
Table 5 LTIP awards earned in respect of performance in 201517 Percentage Shares of maximum vesting award David Stead 0 0% Will Adderley waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award in 2014.
John Browett and Keith Down joined the business in 2015 and no awards under the LTIP are due to vest to them until 2018.
The 2014 LTIP award for FY15FY17 to David Stead as described above is included in the single number for total remuneration for 2016 17 set out in table 3.
89 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 89 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Remuneration Report CONTINUED LTIP awards made to Directors during 201617 LTIP awards were made on 19 October 2016 to John Browett and Keith Down as set out below.
As John Browett resigned on 29 August 2017, unless permitted by the Remuneration Committee under the terms of his severance settlement, this award will lapse.
Table 6 LTIP awards made to Directors during 201617 Face value at date of award percentage Number of salary % vesting of where Performance at threshold Name Award shares relevant Performance condition period Vesting date performance 1 John Nil cost 110,000 849,750 Growth in fully diluted EPS over July 2016 to 19 October 10% Browett option the three year performance June 2019 2019 under period compared with growth in LTIP the index of retail prices RPI over the same period.
No part of the award will vest until compound annual EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
10% of the award vests when compound annual growth in EPS exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
100% of the award vests when compound annual growth in EPS exceeds RPI by 15%.
Between those figures the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
Two-thirds of shares vesting after payment of tax and national insurance must be held for the duration of employment, and 50% of these retained for two years following termination 1 Keith Nil cost 60,000 463,500 As for John Browett July 2016 to 19 October 10% Down option June 2019 2019 under LTIP 1 Based on the closing share price on 18 October 2016, of 772.5p per share.
Joining award made to Keith Down in 2015 Following approval by shareholders at the AGM on 24 November 2015, and as noted in last years annual report, a joining award was made to Keith Down on 7 December 2015 over 33,958 shares in the form of a nil cost option, under the terms of the Share Award Agreement approved by shareholders on 24 November 2015.
The market value of the award was 335,000 based on the closing share price on 4 December 2015, of 986.5p per share.
7,470 22% of these shares vested on 15 September 2016, and 26,488 78% of these shares are due to vest on 15 September 2017.
indd 90 06 10 2017 12:12:05 Governance Payments to past Directors and for loss of office audited David Stead David Stead retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
David received his salary, benets and pension allowance as usual until his leaving date of 31 December 2015, at the rate set out in the Annual Report for 2014 15.
At 31 December 2015, David had three outstanding awards under the LTIP: Table 7 David Steads LTIP awards at his retirement date 31 December 2015 : No.
of shares vest after applying Normal vesting pro-rated to 31 performance Award date Performance period date No.
of shares December 2015 condition 7 October 2013 FY14FY16 7 October 2018 49,216 40,976 18,029 9 October 2014 FY15FY17 9 October 2019 53,922 27,035 Nil 15 October 2015 FY16FY18 15 October 2020 44,592 7,350 n a Includes two year holding period following the end of the three year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determined that as a good leaver with 12 years service during a time of substantial growth in shareholder value, David may exercise the above awards, subject to time pro-rating, and after applying the applicable performance criteria over the full performance period.
The maximum possible vesting, if performance conditions are fully met, is set out in the table above column headed No.
of shares pro-rated to 31 December 2015.
The awards may be exercised within six months of the normal vesting date specified above.
The above arrangements are fully in line with the Remuneration Policy approved at the AGM in November 2015.
The LTIP award made to David Stead in October 2015 was disclosed in the 2015 and 2016 remuneration reports which were approved by shareholders.
The Remuneration Committees decision reects the service provided by David over the financial years covered by the applicable performance periods and has been pro-rated according to that service over those periods.
No further payments have been or are being made to David Stead in respect of loss of ofce or the termination of his employment.
Statement of Directors share interests audited Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding target which requires them to build a beneficial holding of Dunelm shares with a value of 1 salary after three years and 2 salary after five years measured by reference to share price at the financial year end.
In addition, they are required to make a personal investment in Dunelm shares on appointment subject to Company close periods : and to invest two-thirds of any annual bonus paid and LTIP awards earned after payment of tax and national insurance liability on exercise in Dunelm shares.
Will Adderley complies with this requirement at the financial year end.
John Browett was appointed on 1 July 2015 and Keith Down was appointed on 7 December 2015.
Table 8 and Table 9 show the interests of the Directors in shares of the Company at 1 July 2017.
91 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 91 06 10 2017 12:12:06 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Table 8 Directors beneficial shareholdings audited At 2 July At 1 July 2016 2017 1p Ordinary 1p Ordinary Shares Shares Will Adderley 54,161,779 54,161,779 Andy Harrison 202,932 108,133 Marion Sears 105,000 101,313 John Browett 55,030 23,251 Simon Emeny 28,555 28,555 Keith Down 21,610 8,511 William Reeve 7,000 2,500 Liz Doherty 2,500 2,500 Peter Ruis Between the financial year end and the date of this report Directors have purchased shares as follows: Total beneficial holding following Name Date of purchase No.
purchased Price purchase John Browett 12 July 2017 9,098 546.5p 64,128 William Reeve 14 July 2017 3,000 559p 10,000 Simon Emeny 17 July 2017 2,685 556p 31,240 Table 9 Directors interests in options at the period end audited Share End of Market price of options at Date of Nature of performance Option shares at date of 1 July Director award award period price award 2017 Will Adderley Nil John Browett Dec 2015 201618 LTIP 110,000 June 2018 Nil 986.5p Oct 2016 201719 LTIP 110,000 June 2019 Nil 772.5p Nov 2015 2016 18 Sharesave 2,385 Dec 2018 754.5p 942.5p Keith Down Dec 2015 201618 LTIP 60,000 June 2018 Nil 986.5p Oct 2016 201719 LTIP 60,000 June 2019 Nil 772.5p Dec 2015 Joining award 26,488 Sept 2017 Nil 986.5p Nov 2016 201719 Sharesave 2,910 Dec 2019 618.5p 772.5p The LTIP awards above are subject to the performance condition noted in Table 6 above.
Further details of Keith Downs joining award are set out in last years annual report, and details of the Sharesave scheme are set out in the policy table.
Details of options held by David Stead, former Chief Financial officer, who retired from the Board on 31 December 2015, are set out in Table 7.
indd 92 06 10 2017 12:12:06 Governance Share options and dilution The Remuneration Committee considers the provisions of the Investment Associations Guidelines on Executive Remuneration when determining the number of shares over which share scheme incentive awards may be made.
At the date of this report, since otation of the Group in 2006, options have been granted over 2.4% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Group does not hold any shares in an employee benefit trust.
Service contracts In accordance with the Groups policy, the service contracts of the Executive Directors have no xed term, the notice period for termination is 12 months from either party for Will Adderley, and six months for John Browett and Keith Down.
Payments on termination are restricted to a maximum of the value of base salary and benets for the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee may apply mitigation in respect of any termination payment.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years with a provision for termination of one months notice from either party, or three months notice from either party in the case of Andy Harrison, the Chairman.
Table 10 Directors service contracts Date of Unexpired Notice contract term period Will Adderley 28 September 2006 n a 12 months Keith Down 7 December 2015 n a 6 months Marion Sears 22 July 2004 10 months 1 month Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 9 months 1 month Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 19 months 1 month Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 23 months 3 months William Reeve 1 July 2015 9 months 1 month Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 12 months 1 month Since Marion Sears has now served 13 years on the Board 11 of which are post otation of the Company in 2006, and Simon Emeny has served ten years on the Board, their contracts are renewed for one year terms rather than three, with the notice period referred to above.
93 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 93 06 10 2017 12:12:06 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Relative TSR performance The graph below shows the Groups performance over seven years, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the FTSE General Retail Index and the FTSE 250.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen these indices for comparison because they provide a range of comparator companies which have similar market capitalisation, which are in the same sector and which face similar market and economic challenges in the long term.
Table 12 Historic Chief Executive pay The table below sets out the prescribed remuneration data for each of the individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive during each of the last eight financial years: Long term Annual bonus incentive vesting CEO Single payment against rates against figure of total maximum maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 % % 5 5 FY16 17 John Browett 722 14.0% n a 1 FY15 16 John Browett 489 57.7% n a 1 FY15 16 Will Adderley 10 n a n a 2 FY14 15 Will Adderley 507 5% n a FY14 15 Nick Wharton 110 n a n a 3 FY13 14 Nick Wharton 1,509 22.5% 77.5% FY12 13 Nick Wharton 1,292 97.0% 86.7% FY11 12 Nick Wharton 853 100.0% n a 4 FY10 11 Nick Wharton 429 6.0% n a 4 FY10 11 Will Adderley 1,413 4.0% 100.0% FY09 10 Will Adderley 1,366 100.0% 100.0% 1 Will Adderley was succeeded by John Browett as Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
The data for each Director for 2015 16 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive.
Will Adderleys base salary was reduced to 1 on 1 July 2015.
2 Will Adderley was reappointed Chief Executive on 11 September 2014, following the resignation of Nick Wharton on 10 September 2014.
The data for each Director for 2014 15 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive.
3 Nick Whartons first LTIP award vested and was exercised in December 2013.
No LTIP awards have vested to John Browett since his appointment.
4 Will Adderley was Chief Executive until he was succeeded by Nick Wharton on 1 February 2011.
The data for each Director for 2010 11 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive.
5 John Browett left the Group on 29 August 2017.
The single gure and bonus payment in this table reect the position that will apply if the Remuneration Committee allows payment of all of his bonus for the financial year to 1 July 2017 as part of his severance settlement.
indd 94 06 10 2017 12:12:06 Share price rebased to Dunelm Governance Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of our other colleagues.
Table 13 Relative change in Chief Executive pay Change in Change in % change in % change in base salary benefits Bonus earned Bonus earned bonus earned bonus earned 2015 16 2015 16 as % of salary as % of salary 2015 16 to 2014 15 to to 2016 17 to 2016 17 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 1 Chief Executive 2% Nil 14% 72% -75.3% 1340% All colleagues per capita 3.3% 24.3% 5.4% 19% -71.6% 138% 1 John Browett left the Group on 29 August 2017.
The bonus payment in this table reects the position that will apply if the Remuneration Committee allows payment of all of his bonus for the financial year to 1 July 2017 as part of his severance settlement.
Table 14 Relative spend on pay The table below shows the all employee pay cost and returns to shareholders by way of dividends including special dividends and share buyback for 201617 and 201516.
2015 16 2016 17 m % Increase m Total spend on pay 129.3 115.4 12.1% Ordinary dividend to shareholders 51.6 44.6 15.7% Distributions to shareholders via treasury share purchases 4.2 7.8 -46.2% Special distributions to shareholders 63.8 -100% Total distributions to shareholders 55.8 116.2 -52% This information is based on the following: Total spend on pay total employee costs from note 6 on page 128, including salaries and wages, social security costs, pension and share based payments.
Dividends taken from note 9 on page 129.
Share buyback taken from Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 118.
Executive Director external Board appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one external appointment as a Non-Executive Director or similar advisory or consultative role, subject to the Board being satisfied that there is no conict of interest and that the position will not impact negatively on the Executives commitment to their Dunelm role.
The Board may allow the Executive to retain any remuneration received in respect of the appointment.
Will Adderley does not hold any external PLC Board appointments.
John Browett was a Director of Octopus Capital Limited and Octopus Investments Limited effectively one external role during the period.
He retained his Director fees 50,000.
Keith Down was a Non-Executive Director of Topps Tiles plc during the period.
He retained his Director fees 42,926.
95 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 95 06 10 2017 12:12:06 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Senior Executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee provides oversight and guidance on the remuneration structure for Executive Board members.
The package for new appointments is formally presented to the Committee for approval.
In conducting its assessment of Executive Board remuneration, the Committee pays particular regard to whether any individual is incentivised to take risks inappropriate to their role and responsibilities.
Members of the Executive Board and Senior Management Team are eligible for awards under the LTIP.
All members of senior management who receive share awards are also subject to shareholding targets as follows: Executive Board and certain other senior Executives 1 base salary to be acquired over five years Other Executives 0.5 base salary to be acquired over time Statement of implementation of policy in the 2017 18 financial year Base salary, benefits and pension Base salary and benets for each of the Executive Directors for 2017 18 are set out in the table below: Table 15 Base salary, benefits and pension for 2017 18 Increase to Increase to Increase to Base base salary benefits pension salary year on year Benefits year on year Pension year on year 364,140 2% Car allowance: private health insurance for the Nil 54,621 2% Keith Down individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone 1 Nil As above Nil Nil n a Will Adderley Basic salary increase for Keith Down is in line with the Company-wide award of 2%.
Annual bonus Keith Down has been awarded a bonus opportunity of up to 125% of base salary.
The performance conditions attached to the bonus are: 80% linked to achievement of Budget PBT pre budgeted exceptional items: 20% linked to achievement of strategic and personal targets, aligned to the Group strategy.
The Budget PBT is set taking into account market consensus and broker expectations.
The actual financial and strategic targets have not been disclosed at this time as they are commercially sensitive.
The targets and an assessment of the extent to which they have been achieved will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
Keith Down has committed that two-thirds of the bonus earned after payment of income tax and national insurance will be invested in Dunelm shares, to be held for the duration of employment, with 50% of these shares to be retained for two years following cessation of employment.
LTIP An award is expected to be made to Keith Down under the Long Term Incentive Plan in October 2017 over 60,000 shares.
The award will vest, subject to continued employment, on the third anniversary of the grant date, to the extent that performance conditions have been met.
Two-thirds of vested shares after sale to cover tax and national insurance liability on exercise must be retained for the duration of employment, and 50% of these must be retained for two years following cessation of employment.
As in the past five years, Will Adderley has asked that he not be considered for an LTIP award.
indd 96 06 10 2017 12:12:06 Governance Sharesave An invitation will be issued in October 2017 to all eligible employees, to apply for options to be granted under the Sharesave scheme at a 20% discount to the closing market price of Dunelm Group shares on the dealing day preceding the issue of the invitation.
The maximum monthly savings will be 500 per month.
Executive Directors employed at the eligibility date may apply for Sharesave options, subject to the plan rules.
Non-Executive Director fees for 2017 18 Fees to be paid to Non-Executive Directors are as set out in the table below: Table 17 Non-Executive Director Fees Increase in Increase in Committee base fee year Committee fee Position Base Fee SID Fee on year year on year Comment Andy Harrison Chairman 208,000 Nil 2% n a Simon Emeny SID and Remuneration 49,939 Committee Chair Committee chair fee 10,000 63% Increase in Committee Chair fee reflects review of fee against the market SID fee 6,244 2% Marion Sears Non-Executive Director 49,939 Nil 2% n a Liz Doherty Audit and Risk Committee 49,939 10,000 2% 63% Increase in Committee Chair Chair fee reflects review of fee against the market.
William Reeve Non-Executive Director 49,939 Nil 2% n a Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director 49,939 Nil 2% n a Base fee and Senior Independent Director SID fee increases with effect from 1 July 2017 were in line with the Company-wide increase of 2%.
Committee Chair fees were reviewed against the market in view of the increased workload undertaken by Committee Chairs in the light of changing governance requirements, and increased to the median.
Statement of shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 22 November 2016, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights excluding treasury shares was 202,479,676.
The resolution to approve the Annual Report on Implementation of the Remuneration Policy received the following votes from shareholders: Table 18 Voting on remuneration related resolutions at the 2016 AGM % of Votes % of Votes Resolution Votes for votes cast against votes cast withheld % withheld Approve Annual Remuneration Report 178,879,529 99.09% 1,643,656 0.91% 10,122 0.01% Approved by the Board on 13 September 2017.
Simon Emeny Chair of the Remuneration Committee 97 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
