Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman ofthe Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
Our Remuneration Report comprises of three parts: this Annual Statement, the Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration Policy Shareholders last approved our Remuneration Policy in November 2014 with 99% of the votes in favour.
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, our Remuneration Policy is due to be presented for a binding vote by shareholders at our AGM in November 2017.
We therefore conducted a thorough review of the Remuneration Policy during the financial year to ensure that it remains fit for purpose and is in line with shareholder expectations.
In doing so, we have carefully considered the various proposals by Government and other organisations on potential changes to Executive remuneration including disclosure requirements.
We will continue to monitor these and propose changes to remuneration as deemed necessary.
No changes will be made to the Remuneration Policy without further consultation with our shareholders.
Outcome of our review and shareholder consultation Following support from the Investment Association and the BEIS Select Committee for alternative remuneration structures, we discussed the possibility of replacing LTPP awards with restricted share awards during the review of our Remuneration Policy.
We however, decided not to change to restricted shares for the following reasons: i P art of the reason for change would be to reduce complexity.
We believe that our proposed arrangements are very clear and understandable and we have made a number of changes to the policy to reduce the number of schemes and measures and to continue to ensure effective reporting of outcomes: Our Remuneration Policy continues to ii t here is a strong link between the current LTPP performance measures and the returns to align Executive Directors interests with shareholders.
If restricted awards were to be granted in place of LTPPs the alignment with those of shareholders and is sufficiently shareholders would be weakened: iii b ased on advice from our remuneration consultants, the quantum of restricted awards would robust to ensure Executive Directors need to be reduced in comparison to the level of LTPP awards, particularly if there are no are paid for performance whilst performance conditions attached.
One of the business major challenges is to attract and retain the very best people in an industry where there is a significant skills shortage and we ensuring long term shareholder value.
believe that the performance-based incentive provided by the LTPP is important to achieving this objective: and Richard Akers iv o ur LTPP is also granted by way of a Senior Management Incentive Scheme to more than 200 employees across the business.
We believe that the targets set create a strong incentive to Remuneration Committee Chairman perform and an alignment with Executive Directors and shareholders.
Based on the above, we concluded not to adopt any alternative remuneration structures at this time but will keep the matter under review.
76 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information On conclusion of our internal review, which was conducted with the support of our remuneration For the avoidance of doubt, David Thomas will receive no additional remuneration for also consultant, New Bridge Street, we consulted with key institutional shareholders and voting covering the role of Chief Financial Officer for a period of five months whilst we recruited agencies on the changes proposed to our Remuneration Policy.
Overall, the feedback received anewChief Financial Officer.
Accordingly, the following minor amendments are proposed to simplify our Remuneration Policy and further align with our shareholders: FY17 Performance and reward introduction of the accrual of dividend equivalents during the vesting period on Deferred Bonus The start of the financial year was impacted by the result of the EU Referendum which caused Plan and LTPP awards.
Any dividend equivalent accrued will be adjusted in line with the level huge uncertainty and some significant downgrades to profit forecasts by analysts.
Whilst target of the award that actually vests.
Regard will also be given to quantum of an award at the time setting was delayed, the Committee did not reduce the stretch targets which were under of grant: consideration prior to the EU Referendum result.
Despite this uncertainty, the continued focus inclusion of more flexibility for the Committee to determine performance conditions for the and strong leadership of the Executive Directors and Senior Management team has resulted in LTPP, taking into account the strategy of the business and the economic conditions at the time another successful year with the business meeting or exceeding all financial and non-financial of grant: performance targets see pages 4 and 5.
Accordingly, in recognition of this, the Committee agreed that the financial performance of the Company fully supports an annual bonus payment removal of the matching element from the Deferred Bonus Plan: of 146.3% of salary for Executive Directors.
removal of the ability to grant further options under the Executive Share Option Scheme: In addition, the LTPP award granted in October 2014 was tested after the year end and 100% of increase the shareholding requirement for all Executive Directors from 150% to 200%: and the award vested.
The net shares after the payment of any tax and NI due on release will be subject to a further two-year holding period.
Full details of the achievements against each of the reduce the level of pension contribution cash supplement in lieu of pension from 25% to 15% for bonus and LTPP targets can be found on pages 95 to 97. any new Executive Directors joining the Group.
This level is in line with that awarded to Senior Management across the Group and with that awarded by other companies within the sector.
FY18 Executive Directors remuneration Payments for loss of office Details of the remuneration proposed for each of the Executive Directors for the financial year ending 30 June 2018 are set out on pages 92 and 93.
Salary increases are in line with the The payments agreed for Neil Cooper on leaving the business on 19 January 2017 by mutual wider workforce and pension contributions, annual bonus opportunity and LTPP award levels agreement are set out throughout the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In summary, it was remain unchanged from the previous financial year.
Changes have, however, been made to the agreed that Neil would, in accordance with his service contract, continue to receive his salary in performance metrics for the annual bonus and the LTPP.
lieu of notice, a cash supplement in lieu of pension and private health insurance for a period of 12 months, or if earlier, up to the date on which he obtained alternative employment.
In addition, Annual bonus the scheme has been further simplified by reducing the number of performance Neil was paid in lieu of holidays earned but not taken, the shares deferred in respect of the bonus metrics from five to three, with majority weighting continuing to be placed on profit before tax earned for FY16 were released to him and we made a capped contribution towards legal fees see page 92 for further details.
incurred in connection with his loss of office.
His other share based awards lapsed on cessation LTPP the comparator group used for measuring TSR performance has been amended so of his employment.
With effect from 5 June 2017, Neil Cooper secured alternative employment as to provide a directly comparable assessment of the Companys TSR performance against and accordingly his monthly sum in respect of salary has been adjusted see page 103 for other housebuilders.
Accordingly, TSR will be measured against a 50 50- comparator group further details.
of the FTSE companies with market capitalisations either side of the Company and against a Housebuilder index.
Each of these will represent 50% of the TSR element.
The Housebuilder Remuneration for new Chief Financial Officer index will comprise: Bellway PLC, The Berkeley Group Holdings PLC, Taylor Wimpey PLC, On 22 June 2017, we announced the appointment of Jessica White as Chief Financial Officer.
Persimmon PLC, Redrow PLC, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Countryside Properties PLC, Crest In considering the level of remuneration to award Jessica, the Committee took into account Nicholson Holdings PLC, and Galliford Try PLC.
theremuneration package previously provided to Neil Cooper and Jessicas level of experience, knowledge of the business and location.
The Committee also benchmarked her potential package against finance directors within the industry.
On this basis, the Committee agreed that a salary of 400,000 per annum with a 15% pension contribution was appropriate.
Jessicas salary will be reviewed on an annual basis.
In addition, Jessica will be invited to participate in the LTPP on the same basis as the other Executive Directors and any awards which were granted to Jessica prior to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer will remain unchanged.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman ofthe Remuneration Committee continued In addition, on future awards ROCE will be calculated excluding land creditors Underlying Our remuneration strategy ROCE.
This means that for the purposes of our remuneration target, land creditors, which are a form of indebtedness, will be added back to our capital employed position in exactly the same Our most important asset is our people.
Our remuneration strategy seeks to ensure that way as we currently treat net cash and net debt.
This will ensure that the Underlying ROCE remuneration is clearly linked to the delivery of sustainable shareholder value and that the targets remain aligned with shareholders best interests with regards to the Groups optimal employees are appropriately rewarded for performance against the Groups key objectives.
The removal of land creditors from the calculation of ROCE will not otherwise change the basis of the calculation.
Accordingly, this change should not make the metrics any Aims of our Remuneration Policy: more or less onerous than they would be if land creditors continued to be included.
promote the long term success of the Company and be fully aligned with the performance and strategic objectives of the Group in order to enhance shareholder value: Conclusion reward the delivery of profit, the maintenance of an appropriate capital structure and the The Committee believes that the revised Remuneration Policy and our current remuneration continued improvement of return on capital employed by the business whilst ensuring that practices will continue to drive appropriate behaviours by management.
They continue to align Executive Directors and Senior Management adopt a level of risk which is in line with the the Executive Directors with shareholders through the targets we have set, the requirement to risk profile of the business as approved by the Board: retain a specific level of shareholding in the Company, to defer any bonus achieved in excess of reflect the interests and expectations of shareholders and other stakeholders: 100% of base salary and to hold shares acquired under the LTPP net of tax for a period of two years following vesting.
attract, retain, motivate and competitively reward Executive Directors and Senior Management with the requisite experience, skills and ability to support the achievement We therefore hope that you will, as you have done in previous years, support the new ofthe Groups key strategic objectives in any financial year: Remuneration Policy, the outcomes for FY17 and the remuneration for FY18.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank you for your continued support of our remuneration framework take account of pay and employment conditions of employees across the Group: and and I look forward to seeing many of you at the AGM in November 2017. ensure that there is no reward for failure: termination payments if any are limited to those that the Executive Director or member of Senior Management is legally entitled to: and in exercising its discretion, the Committee robustly applies the good and bad leaver provisions as defined in the rules of each of the share schemes operated by the Group.
Richard Akers In developing its policy the Committee has regard to: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Companys business strategy, ensuring that targets support the achievement 5 September 2017 ofbusiness strategy and key KPIs: the performance, roles and responsibilities of each Executive Director or member ofSenior Management: arrangements which apply below Senior Management level, including average base salary increases: information and surveys from internal and independent sources: and the economic environment and financial performance of the Group.
For full details of our Directors' Remuneration Policy see pages 80 to 89 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
78 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Overview for FY17 The summary below outlines the remuneration package for Executive Directors throughout the year under review, together with the targets set for variable remuneration, our performance against such targets and the resulting remuneration outcomes.
Full details can be found in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 92 to 105.
Executive Directors remuneration package for the year ended 30 June 2017 Fixed element c. 27% of total reward assuming maximum performance Salary Pension Benefits Performance-related element c. 73% of total reward assuming maximum performance Annual incentive Long term incentive Annual Bonus Bonus in excess of 100% of Long Term Performance Plan max 150% of salary salary deferred into shares max 200% of salary FY17 Performance metrics and link to strategy: FY17 Performance metrics and link to strategy: Financial 110% of salary Non-financial strategic personal 40% of salary Earnings per Share EPS 1 3 Profit before tax 65% Quality and Service 20% to support the increase of earnings support profitability to create a quality product in a safe way that Return on capital employed ROCE 1 3 customers recommend Land 22.5% optimises the efficiency and profitability of investments drive the ownership of optimum amount of land to support Personal Objectives 20% Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 3 business activities incentivise the achievement of role specific targets aligns the interests of Directors with those of shareholders Capital employed 22.5% Maintain focus on the capital employed position Two-year continued holding period commencing at the end of performance period Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Total remuneration FY17 Total remuneration FY17 Total remuneration FY17 Joined the Board on 22 June 2017 and the figures reflect remuneration received since joining the Board 000 000 000 Salary, pension Salary, pension Salary, pension 887 751 12 and benefits and benefits and benefits 1,019 806 14 Annual incentive Annual incentive Annual incentive Long term incentive 1,425 Long term incentive 1,425 Long term incentive 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 79 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy The Companys current Directors Remuneration Policy the Current Policy, was approved Future policy table by shareholders at the 2014 AGM with 99% of the votes cast being in favour.
As required by the The following table sets out the policy for each of the key elements of Directors remuneration.
Companies Act, the Company will be presenting a new policy the New Policy to shareholders A description of how the Company intends to implement the New Policy during FY18 can be found for approval at its AGM in November 2017.
It is intended that the New Policy as set on pages 80 on pages 92 to 93.
Any changes made to the Policy are as a consequence of consultation with to 89 will, subject to shareholder approval, apply for a period of three years commencing from shareholders or to bring remuneration practices in line with those of the market.
To the extent 15 November 2017. that there is any change from the Current Policy, this is set out below.
The New Policy aims to support and drive the Groups strategy by challenging and motivating Executive Directors to deliver value for shareholders and promote the success of the Company over the longer term.
It continues to ensure that the fixed and variable remuneration elements are simple, transparent and aligned with the interests of shareholders and designed to reflect the views of our investor shareholder bodies and other stakeholders.
The New Policy, once effective, will be reviewed on an annual basis in the context of the business environment, regulation, best practice and market trends for the current and subsequent financial years.
Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Base salary To provide a competitive Normally reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months There is no prescribed maximum N A No change.
salary relative to with any increases usually effective from 1 July.
comparable companies in The Committee considers: The Committee is guided by the general terms of size and complexity.
increase for the broader UK employee i. i ndividual responsibilities, skills, experience To help promote the population but on occasions may need to andperformance: long term success of recognise changes in the role and or duties ii.
the level of pay increases awarded across the Company, to reward of a Director: movement in comparator theGroup with the exception of promotions : individuals based on the salaries: and salary progression for newly iii.
the size and responsibility of the role: scope of the role, and to appointed Directors.
e conomic and market conditions: and attract and retain highThe Committee retains the right to approve v. the performance of the Group.
calibre Executive Directors a higher increase in exceptional cases, to deliver the Groups The Committee, when setting salaries does take such as major changes to the Executive strategy.
into account salary levels for similar positions in Directors role duties: new recruits: or the housebuilding sector and within companies internal promotions to the position of ofasimilar size to the Group.
Executive Director whose salary was set lower than the market level for such a The Committee does have the discretion to vary role and a higher increase is justified as salaries in the event there are changes to any of the the individual becomes more established above within the 12 month period for which salaries in the role.
In these circumstances a full have been fixed.
explanation of the increases awarded Salaries are paid monthly in arrears.
will be provided in the Annual report onremuneration.
1 T he Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account performance of the Group throughout the previous financial year, internal and external forecasts and consensus figures for the performance period.
The performance targets are designed to be sufficiently stretching in order to ensure that maximum payout is only achieved for delivering exceptional performance.
2 This column does not form part of the binding policy report but is intended to provide the reader with additional information to help them put the New Policy into context.
80 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Benefits To help promote the Benefits normally include: There is no formal maximum.
Benefits N A Executive Directors may taxable long term success of the areprovided based on market rates.
receive new benefits on company car: Company and to attract same basis as offered to private medical insurance: and retain high-calibre thewider workforce.
some telephone costs: and Executive Directors and to contributions towards obtaining independent remain competitive in the financial advice.
New benefits offered to the wider workforce will also be offered to Executive Directors on the same basis.
The Committee does have the discretion to offer other benefits, it deems appropriate, to secure the appointment of a new Executive Director and to ensure that the benefits package for existing Executive Directors remains competitive in the market.
Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Pension To help promote the In accordance with legislation, Executive Directors are Existing Directors: N A Pension cap for existing long term success of enrolled into a workplace pension.
Defined contribution scheme or salary Executive Directors reduced the Company: to attract supplement not exceeding 25% of from 30% to 25% of salary.
If Executive Directors choose to opt-out of the and retain high-calibre basesalary.
workplace pension they can elect to either: Any individual joining as Executive Directors: and to Defined benefit scheme: an Executive Director after participate in the Companys money purchase remain competitive in the 1 60 accrual rate and a retirement this policy comes into force pension plan: or marketplace.
will be offered a pension receive a salary supplement.
on the same basis as New Directors: Executive Directors are also eligible to an insured Senior Management below Defined contribution scheme or salary lump sum of up to five times pensionable salary Executive Director level, supplement not exceeding 15% of base ondeath in service.
salary, being the Companys contribution The Committee retains the discretion to honour rate for Senior Management below the pension contribution for those individuals Executive Director level.
who are internally promoted to the position of ExecutiveDirector.
Steven Boyes remains a member of the defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme which closed to new entrants in 2001 and future accrual of defined benefits for current members ceased to be offered on 30 June 2009.
2 This column does not form part of the binding policy report but is intended to provide the reader with additional information to help them put the Policy into context.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 81 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Annual bonus To motivate and reward The Committee has an absolute discretion whether 150% of base salary.
The performance targets set are No change.
Executive Directors for the or not to award a bonus and as to the level of bonus to stretching whilst having regard to the 50% of the potential maximum bonus achievement of demanding be awarded up to a maximum of 150% of base salary.
nature and risk profile of the Company 75% of salary is payable for achievement financial and non-financial The level of bonus to be awarded will be determined and the interests of its shareholders.
objectives and key strategic with reference to the performance of the Company The focus of the performance targets measures over the against the relevant performance conditions and the is to deliver profit growth and to financialyear.
underlying financial and operational performance ensure we have an adequate land bank of the business relative to the sector as noted in the acquired within the constraints of our Variable remuneration column to the right.
allows the Group to manage its cost base by giving it the The Committee sets annually financial and nonPerformance measures normally flexibility to react to changes financial performance targets taking account of the include: in the market and any Companys goals and budget for the relevant financial financial items e. g. profit before unforeseen events.
Group and individual performance against tax, margin growth, net debt land these targets is measured at the end of the financial creditors: or land commitment : year and the level of bonus payable is calculated at non-financial items e. g. quality thatpoint.
and service, health and safety and personal objectives.
The Committee retains the discretion to decide whether or not to pay an annual bonus to an Executive Director The Committee has the discretion who has handed in their notice and to determine, in to vary the elements of each of respect of any employee who is a good leaver, whether these items and weightings of each any annual bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary component on an annual basis to should be paid in cash and not deferred into shares.
ensure that they remain aligned to the strategy of the business and Malus and Clawback applies to both the cash and to market conditions.
Financial deferred element of the bonus, in the event of material items will normally however have misconduct and or material misstatement or error of majorityweighting.
For full details see page 86.
When setting bonus targets, the Committee considers the effect of corporate performance on environmental, social and governance risks and sustainability issues generally to ensure that remuneration structures do not inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Where the Committee believes that performance does not warrant the level of bonus determined, it may use its discretion to reduce the award possibly to nil as it deems appropriate.
No Executive Director has any contractual right toreceive a bonus.
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
82 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Deferred Any annual bonus which is Deferred shares are normally granted in the form Any bonus paid in excess of 100% of salary No performance conditions apply to the Matching awards will no Bonus Plan deferred into shares is held ofaconditional award and are held in accordance is deferred into shares and held in the vesting of awards other than continued longer be available under DBP in thisplan.
DBP, unless the Committee determines employment condition.
otherwise in the case of a good leaver.
The aim is to encourage Deferred shares will normally accrue dividend Introduction of accrual long term focus and to equivalents during the deferral period.
Dividend of dividend equivalents further align interests equivalents may be paid in cash or shares on the between the grant and with those of shareholders vesting ofthe award.
Malus and Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement or error of financial results.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 83 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Long Term To motivate and reward The rules of the LTPP were first approved by In accordance with the rules of the LTPP The Committee ensures that targets, The Committee will have Performance Executive Directors for the shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
the Committee has the discretion to grant whilst stretching, are: realistic and the discretion to vary Plan LTPP delivery of the long term an award up to 200% of base salary to each attainable: for the long term benefit performance conditions LTPP awards: performance of the Group.
of the Group: and do not encourage on the grant of any award i. are normally granted annually in the form of To facilitate share ownership inappropriate business risks.
depending on market conditional awards or nil-cost options at no by Executive Directors.
conditions and the Any LTPP awards are normally subject cost to the Executive Director: strategyof the Company to performance conditions, which ii.
are at the discretion of the Committee, taking into atthat time.
may include TSR, absolute EPS and account individual performance and the overall Underlying ROCE.
The Committee will performance of the Group: take into account noniii.
are subject to the achievement of stretching Any performance conditions selected financial performance performance conditions measured over three by the Committee will be on the when determining the financial years with a subsequent two-year holding basis that they reward achievement level of vesting and any period.
Awards may therefore only be realised on of stretching performance targets adjustments to be made.
conclusion of the five-year combined period: aligned with our strategy and the interests of shareholders.
Introduction of the accrual iv.
can be satisfied by either newly issued shares or of dividend equivalents shares purchased in the market.
Newly issued The Committee has the discretion between the grant and shares are subject to the dilution limits set out to determine the weighting of each vesting of the awards.
in the scheme rules and in accordance with performance condition on the grant guidelines from the Investment Association: and ofan LTPP award.
v. in accordance with the changes to the rules, No more than 25% of an award will vest subject to approval at the 2017 AGM, awards may, at threshold performance 0% will vest at the discretion of the Committee, accrue dividend below the threshold level increasing equivalents.
Any accrued dividend equivalent pro-rata to 100% vesting for maximum will be prorated, depending on the level of performance.
Overall, the Committee must be Malus and Clawback may apply in the event of satisfied that the underlying financial material misconduct and or material misstatement or and non-financial performance of error of financial results.
For full details see page 86. the Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, then it is empowered to reduce the level of vesting potentially to nil.
84 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Savings To promote long term share Under the standard terms of the Sharesave, Save up to the maximum monthly amount Continued employment for the duration No change.
Related Share ownership amongst all employees must have completed the requisite length as specified by legislation or HMRC and as of the scheme and good and bad employees of the Group in of service as at the invitation date to be eligible to approved by the Committee and the Board.
Option Scheme a tax-efficient way, linking participate in the Sharesave.
Sharesave The maximum savings level is set by employee benefits to the Employees can elect to save between a minimum legislation or Government from time to time performance of the Group of 5 and the maximum monthly savings limit as and the Committee reserves the right to and to aid retention of staff.
approved by the Committee and the Board within amend contribution levels to reflect such the limit s prescribed by legislation and HMRC, for a approved changes.
period of three or five years.
At the end of the savings period the employee has six months in which to exercise their option.
Purpose and link to Changes to 2017 18 remuneration 1 2 Element of pay Companys strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Description of performance metrics policy from the previous year Non-Executive To attract and retain high Normally the Board will decide whether or not an Non-Executive Director fees must remain N A No change.
quality and experienced increase to the Chairmans and or the Non-Executive within the aggregate limit approved by Directors fees Directors fees is appropriate.
The Chairman Non-Executive Directors shareholders from time to time.
including the isnot involved in any decisions relating to his including the Chairman.
Chairman The current aggregate limit is 800,000. ownremuneration.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors fees are reviewed annually and are normally set by reference to the level of fees paid to Chairmen and Non-Executive Directors serving on boards of similarly-sized, UK-listed companies, taking into account the size, responsibility and time commitment required of the role.
The Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees are paid in cash.
Neither the Chairman nor the NonExecutive Directors participate in any performance related schemes e. g. annual bonus or incentive schemes nor do they receive any pension or private medical insurance or taxable benefits other than the potential to receive gifts at the end of a long-standing term of appointment.
Expenses incurred by the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors in the performance of their duties for the Company including taxable travel and accommodation benefits in connection with travelling toa permanent workplace may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate.
No additional fees are payable for membership of Board Committees however, additional fees are paid tothe Chairmen of the Audit, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health and Environmental Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees may be paid where, in exceptional circumstances, the normal time commitment is significantly exceeded.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 85 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure Malus and Clawback Both the annual bonus including any deferred bonus and the LTPP are subject to the malus In line with the Investment Associations Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure the and clawback Malus and Clawback provisions contained in the plan rules for a period of two Committee is satisfied that the incentive structure and targets for Executive Directors do not years following vesting.
Malus and Clawback is applicable in respect of any annual bonus paid or raise any environmental, social, or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible or deferred and to any share awards granted under the LTPP, subject in the case of HMRC approved reckless behaviour.
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration package will options, to such approval.
encourage inappropriate risk taking within the Company.
Clawback can be invoked if: Remuneration Committee discretion a t he Company has to restate its Financial Statements due to prior period errors as defined The areas of the New Policy over which the Committee has discretion are included in the Future by International Accounting Standard 8 and such errors resulted in that Award vesting to a policy table.
However, we have summarised the key discretions below for clarification: greater degree than would have been the case had that error not occurred: amendment of salary or the award of higher increases in exceptional circumstances: b t he Committee forms the view that in assessing the extent to which any Performance vary benefits offered to secure new appointments: Condition and or any other condition imposed on the Award was satisfied such assessment was based on a material error and that such error resulted in that Award vesting to a honour pension contributions for internal promotions: materially greater degree than would have been the case had that error not been made: or whether or not to make a bonus award and whether payment should be made to anyone who c t he relevant individual ceases to be a director or employee of a member of the Group as has handed in their notice to leave the business: aresult of their summary dismissal because of their gross misconduct which has caused what performance conditions should be attached to annual bonus and LTPP awards and the loss or damage to a member of the Group.
weighting to be attached to each: In such circumstances, the Committee may determine that the bonus and or share award determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: will be retrospectively recalculated.
If bonus monies have been paid, the participant will be required to reimburse the Company for an amount up to the total amount of the net bonus paid, determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy less any bonus that the Committee determines would have been paid regardless of the event table above : in question.
If share awards have been granted, the number of awards or options granted will determining the application of dividend equivalents, whether they be issued in shares or cash bereduced accordingly.
If the award has vested and shares have been issued to the participant, and retaining the ability to adjust the amount paid: the participant will be required to repay the value of the relevant number of shares based on theCompanys closing share price as at the date the shares were issued.
determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. change of control, Recruitment of Executive Directors rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and special dividends : and The Committee will determine the remuneration for any new Executive Directors in accordance determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the with the Policy then in force and will take into consideration each of the following elements: appropriate treatment.
Salary and benefits the Committee will take into account market data for the scope of the job, If an event occurs which results in the Annual bonus plan or LTPP performance conditions the remuneration for the relevant role, the salaries of and benefits provided to existing Executive and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment the Directors, the new Executive Directors experience, location and current base salary and benefits Committee will have the ability, in limited circumstances, to adjust appropriately the measures package.
In the event an Executive Director is recruited at below market levels, their base salary and or targets, to alter the weighting of the measures, and to reduce any annual bonus or may be re-aligned over a period of time e. g. two to three years subject to their performance in LTPP awards potentially to nil in the event that the underlying financial and non-financial the role.
The Committee may also agree to cover relocation costs if it deems it appropriate.
performance of the Group does not warrant the level of vesting.
86 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Pension Executive Directors will be auto-enrolled from the date of recruitment unless Table 10 Executive Directors service contracts they opt-out.
If an Executive Director chooses to optout they may elect to receive a pension Executive Director Service contract date Date of appointment Notice period supplement in cash.
The Committee has discretion to determine the level of pension supplement David Thomas 16 January 2013 21 July 2009 12 months to be awarded to the Executive Director, up to a maximum which is equivalent to the percentage normally offered to Senior Management.
Alternatively, the Executive Director may choose to join Steven Boyes 21 February 2013 1 July 2001 12 months the defined contribution money purchase pension plan provided they meet all of the eligibility Jessica White 21 June 2017 22 June 2017 12 months criteria.
The Executive Director also has the option to receive some of their pension entitlement in cash and have the remainder contributed to the defined contribution money purchase pension Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection by any person at the plan, provided this does not, in aggregate, exceed the agreed percentage.
Companys registered office during normal office hours.
Annual bonus and LTPP new Executive Directors may be able to participate in the annual bonus scheme and the LTPP on terms to be considered by the Committee on a case by case Executive Directors policy on payment on loss of office basis.
Any award made to the new Executive Director will usually be on the same terms as set There are no specific provisions for compensation on early termination except for payment out in the Future Policy Table on pages 82 and 84.
The level of the award will be no greater than in lieu of holidays accrued but untaken or loss of office due to a change of ownership of the that made to existing Executive Directors and will be pro-rated based on the number of weeks Company.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments remaining outstanding of the relevant performance period.
are made in good faith: a in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for Buyout of existing entitlements The Committee may also consider buying out existing breach of such an obligation : or b by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in entitlements which an individual would forfeit upon leaving their current employer, again this connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
The Committee would be reviewed on a case by case basis.
The Committee would however in all cases seek may also provide a contribution toward reasonable legal costs and with the provision of validation of the value of any potential entitlement that is being forfeited and take into account outplacement services.
The Committee will apply mitigation against any contractual obligations the proportion of any performance period remaining of the award, the type of award i. e. cash as it deems fair and reasonable and will seek legal advice on the Companys liability to pay or shares and the performance achieved or likely to be achieved.
The Committee also seeks to reduce the level of any compensation payable if any, will seek to reflect to the extent possible the value, degree of conditionality and form of and takes into account, amongst other factors, the individuals and the Groups performance: award of the entitlement foregone.
In structuring any buyouts, existing arrangements will be the Directors obligation to mitigate their own loss: and the Directors length of service when used where possible, however, the Company may also make use of the flexibility provided by calculating termination payments.
The Committee reserves the right to phase any such the Listing Rules to make awards without prior shareholder approval.
payments if it deems that it is appropriate to do so.
Any amount that the Committee decides to pay an Executive Director will be based on the main elements of Executive Remuneration Where an individual is recruited internally to the position of Executive Director, the Company will namely, base salary, annual bonus subject to the Committees discretion, benefits and pension.
honour any pre-existing contractual commitments.
The Committee also takes into account the rules of the annual bonus and LTPP Schemes when determining any payments for loss of office as follows: Executive Directors service contracts Annual Bonus in accordance with the provisions contained within the service contracts, Executive Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are included in Table 10 and their Directors are not usually entitled to any bonus payment other than in circumstances where they emoluments are shown in Table 15 on page 94.
The Companys policy is for all Executive are deemed by the Committee as a good leaver, which includes but is not limited to redundancy, Directors including new appointments service contracts to be for a rolling 12 month period retirement, ill-health or disability or any other circumstance which the Committee may decide, which can be terminated by 12 months notice given by either the Company or by the Executive unless they remain employed and are not under notice as at the payment date.
Any bonus payment Director at any time.
The service contracts normally entitle Executive Directors to the provision for a good leaver will be based on the individual performance of the Executive Director concerned of a company car, annual medical screening, permanent health insurance, private medical as well as the Companys performance during the relevant period.
Such payment will be pro-rated insurance, some telephone costs, contributions to the cost of obtaining independent financial depending on the proportion of the bonus period worked by the relevant individual.
Any bonus and tax advice and payment of legal fees on cessation of employment.
The Committee regularly payment to the leaving Executive Director will normally be paid entirely in cash.
reviews contractual terms for Executive Directors to ensure that they continue to reflect best practice.
Deferred Bonus if the Executive Director is deemed to be a good leaver as defined above, they will be entitled to retain the shares subject to settling any tax and national insurance All Executive Directors appointments and subsequent re-appointments are subject to election liability that may become due on release of the shares.
In all other cases, the shares will lapse and annual re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
immediately on the date that the Executive Directors employment with the Company ends and there is no entitlement to any compensation for the loss of the shares.
Deferred shares can, at the discretion of the Committee, be released to the Executive Director on cessation of employment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 87 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy continued LTPP under the rules of the LTPP, unless the Executive Director is deemed by the Committee Executive Directors' shareholding requirements to be a good leaver as defined above any LTPP awards held by them will lapse on cessation To further align the interests of Executive Directors to those of shareholders, Executive Directors of his or her employment.
If he or she is a good leaver, the number of shares subject to the are required to build and retain a shareholding equivalent to 200% of base salary FY16, 200% award will be pro-rated based on the number of weeks of the relevant performance period Chief Executive and 150% other Executive Directors in the Company's shares within five years completed by them.
Other than in the event of death, no shares will be released to the Executive of the shareholding requirement coming into force or the Executive Director being appointed to Director, until the normal vesting date.
During this time the shares will continue to be subject the Board, whichever is the later.
The share price used for the purposes of determining the value to the relevant performance conditions until the end of the performance period, at which point of the shares is that prevailing on 30 June of the given year.
The Committee reserves the right to the Committee will test the performance conditions and determine how much, if any, of the amend the percentage holding required by the Chief Executive and the other Executive Directors remaining shares will vest.
Following the vesting of each scheme, absent a life changing event depending on market conditions and best practice guidance.
such as retirement and the consent of the Committee, the Executive Directors must retain Details of the Executive Directors shareholdings can be found in Table 21 on page 99. any shares vesting under the LTPP for a period of two-years commencing from the end of the relevant performance period.
Performance scenario charts fixed and variable pay Change of control the rules of each share scheme operated by the Company contain provisions The Groups policy seeks to ensure that a substantial proportion of Executive Directors relating to a change of control.
In the event that a change of control does occur any unvested remuneration is performance related and that enhanced rewards are only paid for exceptional options or awards will become vested on the date of the relevant event.
The chart below shows how the composition of each of the Executive Directors of options or awards that vest will be pro-rated depending on the number of weeks completed remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance achievement for the 2017 18 within the relevant performance period and the level of performance conditions achieved during financial year.
Options or awards which have already vested as at the date of the relevant event may still be exercised within the prescribed timescales set out in the rules.
Chart 1 Executive Directors potential remuneration Differences between Executive Directors and employees remuneration 000 Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance The following differences exist between the Companys policy for the remuneration of Executive 3,500 Directors as set out in the Future policy table on pages 80 to 85 and its approach to the payment 42% of employees generally: 3,000 a lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity may apply to employees other than the 42% 2,500 Executive Directors.
All employees, including Executive Directors, are subject to similar 33% performance targets, however the weightings against the various targets may vary: 2,000 31% 42% 33% Executive Directors are required to defer any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary 1,500 31% 25% into shares for a period of three years: 33% 24% 1,000 32% 100% 42% 27% Executive Directors may opt to receive a cash supplement in lieu of being auto-enrolled 25% 100% 43% 27% 500 or contributing to the defined contribution section of the Barratt Group Pension and Life 100% 42% 26% Assurance Scheme.
The cash supplement or employer's contribution rate for existing 0 Executives does not exceed 25% of base salary.
For all other employees, the maximum rate Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum David Thomas Chief Executive Steven Boyes Deputy Chief Executive Jessica White ofemployers contribution varies between 5%25%.
Any new Executive Directors will be at and Chief Operating officer Chief Financial officer thesame rate as Senior Management from time to time: and LTPP award Basic salary, benets and pension Executive Directors are able to participate in the LTPP.
A number of select employees at Senior Bonus Management level may be invited to participate in the LTPP at the Committees discretion.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that Assumptions: 1.
B enefits the value receivable in 2017 18 financial year is taken to be the value received in the 2016 17 financial year as disclosed in the single are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the greater figure of remuneration table on page 94: emphasis placed on performance-related pay for Executive Directors.
B onus the on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
No share price appreciation or dividend accrual has been assumed for the deferred share amount payable at maximum bonus: and 3.
L TPP Award the on-target vesting level is taken to be 50% and the maximum value is taken to be 100% of the face value of the award at grant.
No share price appreciation or dividend accrual has been assumed.
88 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Non-Executive directorships Legacy arrangements Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept one Non-Executive For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour directorship outside the Company and retain any fees received from such a position.
Board any previously disclosed commitments entered into with current or former Directors including, approval will not be given for any Non-Executive position where such appointment would lead but not limited to, payment of pensions or the vesting exercise of past share awards.
to a material conflict of interest or would have an effect on the Directors ability to perform their duties to the Company.
Statement of consideration of pay and employment conditions elsewhere across the Group The level for all employees salaries is determined with reference to the rate of inflation, salaries Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment for similar positions throughout the industry and general themes and trends in respect of The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed under terms set out remunerating employees.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be When reviewing the pay and employment conditions of Executive Directors, including increase terminated by the Board without compensation for loss of office and by giving the appropriate in base salary, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and employment conditions of length of notice as prescribed in their respective letters of appointment.
all employees across the Group.
The Company does not directly consult with employees when The notice period applicable, from either party, for the Chairman is three months and for each setting Executive Directors remuneration, however given that the Company operates the of the other Non-Executive Directors is one month.
Under governance policies approved by the Sharesave in which all employees can participate and become shareholders in the Company, Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and usually serve a second they can comment on the Groups Remuneration Policy in the same way as all of our other three-year term subject to performance review and re-election by shareholders.
In addition, the Company provides a number of forums through which employees further term of up to three years may be served subject to rigorous review by the Chairman and can ask questions on such matters should they so wish.
the Nomination Committee and re-election by shareholders.
Details of Non-Executive Directors Statement of consideration of shareholder views letters of appointment can be found in Table 11.
Each year we normally update our major shareholders upon the Committees application of the Table 11 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Policy and our performance, following the release of the July trading update and in advance Date elected Date first appointed Date last re-appointed of the publication of our Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee takes into account Non-Executive Director re-elected at AGM to the Board to the Board shareholder feedback received from this exercise and any additional feedback received during John Allan 16 November 2016 1 August 2014 1 August 2017 any meetings from time to time, as part of the Companys annual review of the Policy.
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative Tessa Bamford 16 November 2016 1 July 2009 1 July 2015 bodies should any material changes be proposed to the Policy.
Details of the votes cast for and Richard Akers 16 November 2016 2 April 2012 2 April 2015 against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed Nina Bibby 16 November 2016 3 December 2012 3 December 2015 with shareholders during the year are detailed throughout this Remuneration report.
Jock Lennox 16 November 2016 1 July 2016 N A The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal office hours.
Gifts to Directors on leaving employment The Committee reserves the discretion to approve gifts to long serving Directors who are retiring or who are good leavers e. g. those leaving office for any reason other than dismissal ormisconduct.
The value of the gift for any one Director shall be limited to a maximum of 5,000 excluding any tax or VAT liability.
Where a tax or VAT liability is incurred on such a gift, the Committee has the discretion to approve the payment of such liability on behalf of the Director inaddition to the maximum limit.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 89 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration Committee Membership and attendance at Committee meetings Advice advisers Membership of the Committee and attendance at each of its scheduled meetings during the year In carrying out its principal responsibilities, the Committee has the authority to obtain the is set out in Table 12. advice of external independent remuneration consultants and is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination.
During the year, the Committee has taken advice from independent advisers, New Bridge Street NBS, a part of Aon plc.
NBS was initially appointed Table 12 Membership and attendance at Committee meetings by the Committee as its remuneration consultant in 2008 and is a founder signatory to the Member Role Number of meetings attended Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
In addition to advising the Committee, Richard Akers Chairman 5 5 NBS also provided the Company with advice on implementing decisions made by the Committee John Allan Member 5 5 and remuneration benchmarking.
The Chairman of the Committee also seeks advice from NBS independent of management on any matters to be discussed at Committee meetings.
NBSs fees Tessa Bamford Member 5 5 for providing such advice amounted to 72,830 for the year ended 30 June 2017 2016: 40,489.
Nina Bibby Member 5 5 In line with best practice, the Committee assesses from time to time, whether the appointment 1 Jock Lennox Member 5 5 remains appropriate or if it should be put out to tender as part of its effectiveness review.
Former members In addition, as part of this assessment, the Committee also considers the independence 2 and objectivity of NBS.
While the Committee did not feel there were any issues regarding Mark Rolfe Member 2 2 independence and objectivity, given the length of tenure of NBS, the Committee concluded that it 1 Jock Lennox joined the Board on 1 July 2016. would be appropriate to put the position out to tender.
The tender process will take place during 2 Mark Rolfe stepped down from the Board on 16 November 2016. the next financial year, with a view to appointing a remuneration consultant as soon as possible in Note: calendar year 2018.
Aon plc also provided broking services to the Company in respect of private X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
medical insurance, death in service benefits and group income protection.
X Number of meetings whilst a Director.
The Committee also receives input into its decision making from the Chief Executive David The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Thomas, the Company Secretary Tina Bains and the Group Human Resources Director Rob Tansey, none of whom were present at any time when their own remuneration wasbeing considered.
90 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration Committee activity FY17 Main activities undertaken during FY17 The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and agree the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Senior Management and to monitor and report on it.
It follows an annual work programme which was fully completed during the year.
The Remuneration Committees responsibilities as delegated by the Board are formally set out in its written terms of reference which are available from www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies.
Executive Directors and Senior Governance Management remuneration Considered and approved the Remuneration report for FY16.
Reviewed annual performance of the Executive Directors.
Reviewed and approved the New Remuneration Policy for presentation toshareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Reviewed fixed and variable remuneration for Executive Directors andSenior Management.
Considered remuneration disclosure requirements and disclosures for the Remuneration report for FY17.
Considered and approved FY18 salary increases for Executive Directors andSenior Management page 92.
Reviewed and approved its annual agenda and terms of reference.
Considered and approved the remuneration package for the new ChiefFinancial Officer.
Long term incentives Committee effectiveness Received updates on the potential levels of vesting of outstanding LTPP awards.
Reviewed and made progress against all matters arising from the FY16 annual evaluation.
Considered and finalised performance metrics and targets, participants and level of awards for FY17 LTPP.
Undertook an internal evaluation of its own performance and devised anaction plan to address the issues arising from it page 56.
Reviewed the potential structure including participants, level of award Assessed the effectiveness of the Committees remuneration consultants andtargets of the FY18 LTPP.
Discussed and agreed treatment of Neil Coopers awards on him leaving the business.
Shareholder consultation Annual bonus Updated and consulted with shareholders on the revised remuneration Reviewed forecast bonus outcomes for FY17 page 95. policy, remuneration outcomes for FY16, indicative outcomes for FY17 Reviewed and approved proposals to further simplify the annual andthe proposed remuneration for FY18.
Considered feedback received from the consultation process in finalising Considered and approved bonus targets for FY18 page 92. the policy and targets proposed for FY18.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 91 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration In this section, we describe how the Policy will be applied in FY18 and how it has been Annual bonus implemented throughout FY17 together with the resulting payments to Directors.
The Annual Executive Directors and Senior Management will participate in the Groups annual bonus scheme report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
in accordance with the Policy.
The Company is of the view that the individual annual bonus performance targets are commercially sensitive in terms of the Group Strategy therefore these Statement of implementation of the Policy for FY18 targets will not be disclosed in this report.
We will as always disclose the annual bonus targets Executive Directors remuneration for FY18 will be based on the Groups Remuneration Policy and performance against them in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
The performance as approved by shareholders in 2014 and set out in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts until measures, the reasons for selecting these measures and the maximum bonus payment against the New Policy is approved by shareholders.
The New Policy, as shown on pages 80 to 89, will each of them expressed as a percentage of salary for FY18 will be: be presented for approval by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and will be effective immediately on approval.
Weighting % of salary Performance measure Reason for selecting maximum Financial: Base salary Profit before tax Rewards outperformance against stretching targets and is a 82.5 The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors in April 2017 and the salary of key measure of our performance.
the Chief Executive in June 2017.
In reviewing these salaries the Committee had regard to: the Non-financial: performance of the Executive Directors during the year: the pay and employment conditions Quality and service with a health Ensures a focus on quality and service to our customers 22.5 elsewhere in the business: the increase awarded to other members of staff: and the multiplier andsafety underpin without compromising the safety of our people.
effect of an increase in base salary on the package as a whole.
On this basis the Committee 1 Personal and strategic objectives Focus individuals on specific factors required to meet the 45.0 agreed to increase the salaries of David Thomas and Steven Boyes by 3%, in line with the average long and short term strategy of the business whilst aligning increase given to other employees across the organisation.
Following her promotion on 22 June their interests withthose of shareholders.
2 2017, Jessica Whites salary was increased to 400,000 per annum to more fully represent the Total bonus achievable as a % of salary 150.0 additional responsibilities of the role.
The salaries of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2017 will therefore be: 1 E xecutive Directors will have two personal objectives each as well as two strategic objectives which will be based on land and improving margin.
2 Any bonus earned in aggregate in excess of 100% will continue to be deferred into shares and held in the DBP.
The Committee has agreed that nomatching shares will be awarded against any deferred shares in respect of FY18.
Table 13 Executive Directors salary increases The Groups profitability remains a key measure, however, in order to drive sustainable value this Salary with effect Salary with effect from 1 July 2016 from 1 July 2017 must be achieved through an appropriate capital structure and in line with the risk profile of the Executive Director 000 000 business.
In order to ensure that the annual bonus performance measures remain appropriate, David Thomas 3% increase 696 717 they have been reviewed against last years and the following changes have been made to Steven Boyes 3% increase 551 568 simplify the scheme and align performance measures with the Groups strategy: 1 Jessica White N A 400 to ensure that the bonus scheme is concentrated on key drivers and to further simplify the scheme, the number of performance measures has been reduced from five to three: 1 Jessica White, previously Group Financial Controller, was promoted to the position of Chief Financial Officer on 22 June 2017. profit before tax remains a key performance measure, the weighting has been increased to adjust Following these increases David Thomas and Steven Boyes salaries remain within the range for for the removal of the other financial items which now form part of the strategic objectives: the housebuilding sector and the wider population of similar sized companies.
the weighting of the quality of service metric has also increased to reflect the importance of maintaining a high quality product and service for our customers: and Pension the weighting of personal and strategic objectives has increased to cater for the inclusion of Each of the Executive Directors has opted to receive a cash salary supplement in lieu of a metrics that are relevant for the financial year.
For the financial year ending 30 June 2018 the pension of up to 25% annual salary.
These arrangements will continue for current Directors strategic objectives will focus on land and improving margin.
The Committee has also agreed in FY18.
The Remuneration Committee considered the current level of pension provision for to retrospectively disclose the personal and strategic objectives of the Directors and the Directors and has agreed that any new Executive Director would be given a pension equivalent performance against them starting with those for the current year see page 96. to that of Managing Directors, currently 15% of salary.
Jessica White will receive a cash salary supplement of 15% of her salary.
The Committee will continue to have an overriding discretion in respect of any bonus payment in accordance with its Remuneration Policy.
In addition, any bonus awarded for FY18 will be subject to Malus and Clawback.
92 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information LTPP Non-Executive Directors fees The level of the LTPP award to be granted to Executive Directors during FY18 will be in line with The Board reviewed the fees for the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and that set out in the Policy.
The Committee is cognisant that such an award should be subject to concluded that in order to ensure that the base fee level remains competitive in the market, they performance targets, which are stretching and challenging whilst aligned with the short and should be increased to 315,000 per annum for the Chairman and 60,000 per annum for each of long term performance of the Group and TSR.
Accordingly, the Committee has agreed that the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2017.
The additional fees for the Chairmen of the extent to which the LTPP award to be granted in the year ended 30 June 2018 the 2017 18 the Committees and the Senior Independent Director remain the same.
Accordingly, the annual LTPP will vest, will be dependent on three independent performance conditions: TSR, EPS and fees payable to the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 July Underlying ROCE, which will be measured as follows: 2017 are as follows: Below Table 14 Non-Executive Directors fees Weighting Threshold Threshold Maximum Fee as at Fee as at Performance condition Reason selected of total award 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting 1 July 2016 1 July 2017 TSR against a 50 50- To ensure that the comparator 20% Below Median Upper Role 000 000 comparator group.
group remains current and median quartile Chairman 3.3% increase 305 315 relevant whilst factoring in Non-Executive Director base fee 3.4% increase 58 60 the continued movement in the Companys market Chairman of Audit Committee 10 10 capitalisation.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee 10 10 TSR against a housebuilder To ensure rewards are linked 20% Below index Index Index average Chairman of Safety, Health and Environmental Committee 5 5 1 index.
average of average of 8% per peer group peer group annum Senior Independent Director 5 5 Absolute EPS for the financial To ensure efficient and effective 20% below 66 pence 74 pence year ending 30 June 2020. management of our business 66 pence and align interests with those ofshareholders.
Underlying ROCE for the To ensure efficient and effective 40% below 19% 19% 22% financial year ending 30 June management of our business 2 2020. and align interests with those ofshareholders.
1 T he housebuilder index will comprise: Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Countryside Properties, Crest Nicholson, Galliford Try, Persimmon, Redrow and Taylor Wimpey.
2 P lease see the Glossary on page 176 for the definition of Underlying ROCE.
This equates to a ROCE of 25% at threshold and 28% at maximum.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
In addition, all LTPP awards are subject to an overriding Committee discretion, whereby the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group, over the performance period, warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has the authority to reduce possibly to nil the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
The 2017 18 LTPP will also be subject to Clawback provisions and a two-year holding period will apply from the end of the performance period, on any shares vesting net of shares sold to satisfy tax and national insurance liabilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 93 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Directors remuneration outcomes for the year ended 30 June 2017 Single figure of remuneration The total remuneration for each of the Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2017 is as set out in Tables 15 and 16 below: Table 15 Executive Directors single figure of remuneration Audited 1 2 Salary Benefits taxable Annual Bonus LTPP Pension Benefits Sharesave Scheme 2017 Total 2016 Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 4 5 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 David Thomas 696 676 17 15 1,019 988 1,425 1,291 174 169 16 3,331 3,155 8 Steven Boyes 551 535 63 38 806 782 1,425 1,291 138 134 2,982 2,780 6 Jessica White 11 0 14 51 0 76 - Former Directors 7 Neil Cooper 251 275 12 9 387 213 63 66 326 950 9 Total 1,509 1,486 92 62 1,839 2,157 2,901 2,795 375 369 16 6,715 6,885 1 Benefits taxable include the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, some telephone costs and contributions towards obtaining independent financial advice.
2 Includes amounts deferred for David Thomas, Steven Boyes, Jessica White and Neil Cooper see Table 19 on page 96.
3 Performance conditions for the LTPP and the SMIS were tested after 30 June 2017 and 100% of the award is due to vest in October 2017.
The market price of the shares has been calculated based on an average market value over the three months to 30 June 2017 5.84 per share.
4 I n accordance with regulatory requirements, the values in this column have been re-calculated using share price of 4.76 per share being the market value of the shares on the vesting date, 24 October 2016, as opposed to the market price of 5.37 per share calculated based on an average market value over the three months to 30 June 2016 as disclosed in last years Remuneration report.
5 The Sharesave Scheme, granted in March 2013, was subject to a continued employment condition and matured on 1 June 2016.
The value is calculated using a share price of 5.74 per share being the mid-market close price of a share on the date of maturity.
6 J essica White was appointed to the Board on 22 June 2017 and her salary, bonus and pension entitlement above reflects the time served on the Board.
Jessica Whites benefits including car allowance and pension supplement for the period 22 June 2017 to 30 June 2017 were 430 and 489 respectively.
The Company also paid the legal fees of 2,806 excluding VAT for the advice Jessica White received in respect of her terms of appointment and service contract.
7 Neil Cooper was appointed to the Board on 23 November 2015 and resigned from the Board on 19 January 2017.
His salary reflects the period served on the Board.
Full details of his leaving arrangements can be found on pages 103 and 104.
8 The benefits taxable for Steven Boyes includes a cash payment of 30,406 including tax and national insurance contributions for re-imbursement of the cost of a holiday which had to be cancelled to deal with urgent Company business.
9 Comparator totals for 2015 16 reflect those members on the Board during 2015 16 excluding Mark Clare.
2 Mark Rolfe stepped down from the Board on 16 November 2016.
3 Benefits taxable include expenses incurred in attending the Companys main corporate office and for 2016 17 are 242 for John Allan, 651 for Richard Akers, 98 for Tessa Bamford and 145 for Mark Rolfe.
4 Benefits taxable include expenses incurred in attending the Companys main corporate office and for 2015 16 are 348 for John Allan, 470 for Richard Akers and 1,325 for Mark Rolfe.
94 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Annual bonus For the year under review, Executive Directors had the potential to earn an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary, 130% of which is based on the attainment of Group performance targets and 20% on personal objectives, both of which are linked directly to the Groups strategy.
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary is deferred into shares for a period of three years.
All targets, Group and personal, were agreed towards the beginning of the financial year and amended during the course of the year based on the circumstances prevailing at the time.
The Group performance targets which applied to the bonus for FY17 and the level of bonus achieved were as follows: Table 17 Annual bonus Audited Potential bonus weighting Actual performance Bonus achieved Bonus target Strategic objective Targets % of salary Achievement % of salary Profit before tax Support profitability Threshold: 660.0m 13.0% 765.1m 65.0% Target: 710.0m 32.5% Maximum: 760.0m 65.0% Capital employed Increase focus on the capital employed position Threshold: 3,175.0m 4.5% 2,797.0m 22.5% Target: 3,135.5m 11.3% Maximum: 3,055.0m 22.5% Land bank owned and controlled Drive the ownership of optimum amount of land 4.3 4.6 years of which 3.3 to 3.6 owned 22.5% 4.5 years 22.5% to support business activities and 1.0 conditional, 2 Quality and Service To create a quality product that customers recommend Divisions to achieve SHE Audit of 94% 20.0% 22 27 divisions 16.3% in a safe way for our employees and stakeholders and customer service recommend score of 90%.
Target assessed by number of divisions meeting both targets.
3 Personal objectives To focus individuals to achieving the Groups Threshold: 4.0% 20.0% See Table 18 See Table 18 strategic objectives Target: 10.0% Maximum: 20.0% 1 In the case of a material breach of SHE policy or procedures, the SHE Committee retains discretion to withhold all or part of the bonus depending on the nature of the breach.
2 Quality and service metric is pro-rated based on the number of divisions achieving the required standard.
3 The Executive Directors personal objectives are disclosed on page 96.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 95 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Executive Directors personal objectives The FY17 personal objectives for Executive Directors were set to increase focus on the achievement of the Groups strategic objective relating to improving margin whilst maintaining the Groups focus on maximising volume and retaining quality.
The individual objectives and the performance against each is as follows: Table 18 Executive Directors' personal objectives Executive Director Personal objectives Assessment Maximum opportunity Level achieved David Thomas Improving margin Workstreams established with clear cost benefit timelines and cost 10% 10% To ensure that: tracking mechanisms: i efficiency benefits are clearly defined, measured and delivered: IT strategy and plan developed to ensure adequate support for the delivery ii w orkstreams are established to help deliver efficiencies within a defined of the efficiencies: governance structure: and policies, processes and procedures reviewed, updated and issued to the iii t he wider workforce is fully engaged to ensure that all new working practices business as an enabling workstream: and are adopted and embedded throughout the organisation.
development of project and change management capability and expertise and recruitment of in-house team to support this.
London region Took full responsibility for the restructure of the London Region: 10% 10% To manage the restructure of the London region following our internal investigations and arranged for the recruitment of appropriate successors to the London those undertaken by the Metropolitan Police into the London business.
Regional Managing Director and other key roles: and ensured the London business continued uninterrupted during the transition.
Steven Boyes Improving margin Same as above.
New standard house types and product design New David Wilson Homes product range developed, retaining best selling 10% 10% house types and including new smaller house type ranges.
More efficient i t o manage the development and complete roll out of the new David Wilson Homes product developed and cost savings achieved: house types: ii t o undertake an annual review of all house types and request feedback from divisions annual review of house types being undertaken as sufficient units are built to on possible improvements: and critique.
Information will be collated and fully analysed and changes will be iii m anage the completion of the design work on new low rise apartments and the made where considered relevant: and production of a detailed brochure for divisions.
detailed brochure for new low rise apartments completed and issued to all divisions and being piloted on selected sites.
Jessica Whites FY17 personal objectives relate to her previous role as Group Financial Controller and are therefore not disclosed.
Table 19 Executive Directors deferred bonus FY17 Deferred Bonus FY16 Deferred Bonus Annual bonus for 2016 17 % of salary % of salary % of salary Amount deferred Number of % of salary Amount deferred Number of 1 2 1 000 payable in cash deferred 000 shares deferred 000 shares 3 David Thomas 1,019 146.3 100 46.3 322 TBC 46.1 312 64,182 3 Steven Boyes 806 146.3 100 46.3 255 TBC 46.1 247 50,795 3 Jessica White 14 146.3 100 46.3 5 TBC N A N A N A 1 The Executive Directors earned a total bonus of 146.3% and 146.1% of base salary for FY17 and FY16 respectively.
The bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into shares.
2 Shares are held in the DBP for a period of three years commencing from the date of the award and subject to a continued employment condition.
3 T he number of shares will be determined based on the share price calculated by averaging the closing middle-market quotations, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the first five dealing days following the date on which the Group announces its FY17 annual results.
The actual number of shares awarded in respect of the FY17 Deferred Bonus was not therefore available as at the date of this report.
96 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Vesting of 2014 15 Barratt Developments Senior Managers Incentive Scheme Long Term Performance Plans included in 2016 17 single figure of remuneration Audited Vesting of 2014 15 LTPP included in 2016 17 single figure of remuneration Audited On 20 October 2014 Jessica White was awarded an incentive award under the Barratt The 2014 15 LTPP award granted on 20 October 2014 was based on performance to the year Developments Senior Managers Incentive Scheme SMIS alongside other participants below ended 30 June 2017 and will vest on 20 October 2017.
The performance conditions for this award Board and Executive Committee level.
The 2014 15 SMIS was based on performance to the year and the resulting vesting level is as follows: ended 30 June 2017 and will vest on 20 October 2017.
The SMIS is not subject to any holding period.
The performance conditions for this award and the resulting vesting level is as follows: Portion of Metric Performance condition Threshold Maximum Actual award vesting % of award Metric Performance condition Threshold Maximum Actual vesting EPS Absolute EPS growth for the financial year 48p 58p Basic EPS 1 3 1 ended 30 June 2017.
61.3p EPS Absolute EPS growth for the financial year 48p 58p Basic EPS 50 1 ended 30 June 2017.
61.3p ROCE To increase Return on Capital Employed.
23% 27% 29.8% 1 3 ROCE To increase Return on Capital Employed.
23% 27% 29.8% 50 TSR TSR against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Median Upper Rank of 1 3 index excluding investment trusts.
25% of ranking of 93.5 quartile of 47.0 33 TSR Total level of award vesting 100 this element vests for median performance TSR TSR of 81.3% and 100% of this element vests for upper of 25.9% of 67.8% 1 T he actual EPS of 61.3 pence has been re-based using the corporation tax rate applicable at the date on which the 2014 15 SMIS targets were set, quartile performance or above.
TSR as the subsequent reduction to the rate of corporation tax was not performance related.
The actual EPS has also been re-based using the same measured over three financial years with number of shares in issue as used in the 2014 15 SMIS targets.
The re-based EPS used for the purpose of determining vesting, which is directly athree-month average at the start and end comparable to the 2014 15 SMIS targets, was 61.9 pence.
In accordance with the rules of the SMIS, the Committee considered the underlying financial Total level of award vesting 100% performance of the Group and was satisfied that given the continued improvement in the Groups financial results, the above level of vesting of the 2014 15 SMIS was justified.
Accordingly, the 1 T he actual EPS of 61.3 pence has been re-based using the corporation tax rate applicable at the date on which the 2014 15 LTPP targets were set, as the subsequent reduction to the rate of corporation tax was not performance related.
The actual EPS has also been re-based using the same gross number of shares to be released to Jessica White is as follows: number of shares in issue as used in the 2014 15 LTPP targets.
The re-based EPS used for the purpose of determining vesting, which is directly comparable to the 2014 15 LTPP targets, was 61.9 pence.
Number Number Number Estimated 2 of shares of shares of shares value The Committee considered the underlying financial performance of the Group and was satisfied 1 Executive Director at grant to vest to lapse Total 000 that given the continued improvement in the Groups financial results, the above level of vesting Jessica White 8,726 8,726 8,726 51 of the 2014 15 LTPP was justified.
Accordingly, the gross number of shares to be released to each of the Executive Directors are as follows: 1 The relevant number of shares will be released as soon as is practicable in October 2017, following the vesting date.
2 The estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three months to 30 June 2017 5.84 per share.
Number Number Number Estimated 2 of shares of shares of shares value 1 Executive Director at grant to vest to lapse Total 000 David Thomas 244,086 244,086 244,086 1,425 Steven Boyes 244,086 244,086 244,086 1,425 1 The relevant number of shares will be released to each participant as soon as is practicable in October 2017, following the vesting date.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 97 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued LTPP granted during the year the 2016 17 LTPP Audited Performance against the targets for each of the outstanding awards are as follows: On 14 December 2016, the following 2016 17 LTPP awards were granted to Executive Directors: Table 20 Performance of current LTPP plans against targets The following tables show the targets set on grant of the respective LTPP award together with % of face Number of value that Vesting performance to date.
Basis of Share price at shares over Face value would vest determined by Type of award date of grant which award of award at threshold performance Executive Director award granted pence was granted 000 performance over 2015 16 Award David Thomas Conditional 200% of 454.5 292,370 1,329 25 Three The table below shows the potential level of vesting if performance was measured over award salary financial a two-year period to the 30 June 2017: 696,280 years to 30 June Level of Steven Boyes Conditional 200% of 454.5 231,387 1,052 25 2019 vesting had award salary Performance the award 551,050 Below as at vested as at Threshold Threshold Maximum 30 June 30 June Jessica White Conditional 50% of 454.5 16,596 75 25 Performance target 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting 2017 2017 award salary 1 158,100 TSR Below Median Upper 46.8% 15.6% median quartile Former Directors EPS 58 pence 58 pence 66 pence 61.3 pence 20.6% 1 Neil Cooper Conditional 200% of 454.5 190,636 866 25 award salary ROCE 25% 25% 28% 29.8% 33.3% 454,000 Total 69.5% 1 Neil Cooper left the business on 19 January 2017 at which point this award lapsed in its entirety.
1 The comparator group for TSR is each of the members ranking 50 above and 50 below the Company in the FTSE 250.
The 2016 17 LTPP for Executive Directors is subject to three performance conditions, one-third 2016 17 Award TSR, one-third EPS and one-third ROCE.
The levels of vesting against TSR are measured over a three-year period commencing 1 July 2016, and against EPS and ROCE for the financial year Outlined below is the potential level of vesting for the 2016 17 LTPP, had the performance period ending 30 June 2019.
On completion of the performance period, assuming that shares vest, they been for one year to 30 June 2017: will be subject to a further two-year holding period.
Level of vesting had Performance the award As the award granted to Jessica White was made prior to her becoming an Executive Director, Below as at vested as at the award is subject to two performance measures, EPS 50% and ROCE 50%, in line with Threshold Threshold Maximum 30 June 30 June Performance target 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting 2017 2017 other participants below Board and Executive Committee level.
These performances measures 1 will be measured against the same targets set for the Executive Directors LTPP awards.
TSR Below Median Upper 26.7% 8.9% median quartile In addition, Jessica Whites award is not subject to a holding period.
EPS 58 pence 58 pence 70 pence 61.3 pence 14.3% ROCE 25% 25% 28% 29.8% 33.3% Total 56.5% 1 The comparator group for TSR is each of the members ranking 50 above and 50 below the Company in the FTSE Index.
98 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited Table 21 Directors interests in shares Audited For the financial year ended 30 June 2017 Executive Directors were required to hold shares Outstanding share awards Total Owned in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of salary 2016: 200% for the Chief Executive and under all Shareholding Owned Shareholding Total 150% of salary for the other Directors.
The Chief Executive must hold a minimum of 67% employee as a % of as a % of Shareholding Shareholding Beneficially Beneficially share plans salary as at requirement salary as at requirement 50% for other Executive Directors as an Owned Shareholding.
The Chief Executive and other owned as at as at 30 June 30 June 30 June met owned as at met Executive Directors are expected to meet this requirement no later than the fifth anniversary 1 2 2 30 June 2016 30 June 2017 2017 2017 Y N 2017 Y N of joining the Board, with progress being made towards its achievement throughout the period.
David Thomas 1,280,726 1,459,096 1,121,319 1,147% Y 1,282% Y Participants who have not built up the required level of shareholding by the end of the defined Steven Boyes 827,498 1,005,868 785,394 998% Y 1,069% Y period, will not be eligible for inclusion in future share-based incentive schemes, likewise, 3 Jessica White 35,408 35,408 46,531 50% N 50% N they will not be allowed to sell any of the net of tax shares released from incentive schemes John Allan 3,102 34,205 N A N A N A N A until they reach the levels specified, unless exceptional circumstances exist in the opinion of the Committee.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust the length of time in which the Richard Akers 40,000 50,000 N A N A N A N A required amount ofshareholding needs to be accrued in order to adjust for events out of the Tessa Bamford 34,010 36,121 N A N A N A N A individuals control.
Nina Bibby 8,500 8,500 N A N A N A N A 4 At 30 June 2017, both David Thomas and Steven Boyes have met the shareholding requirement.
Jock Lennox 10,000 N A N A N A N A Jessica White has until 21 June 2022 to meet the shareholding requirement.
Former Directors 5 Neil Cooper 23,665 N A N A N A N A The interests of the Directors serving during the financial year and their connected persons 6 inthe ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are shown Mark Rolfe 75,062 75,062 N A N A N A N A in Table 21.
On 24 July 2017 the Company was notified that Steven Boyes and Jessica White exercised their respective options over 2,578 shares each under the SAYE scheme.
No other 1 Details of the interest held in specific employee share plans can be found in the tables on page 100 to 102.
2 Calculated in accordance with the Groups Remuneration Policy.
notification has been received of any change in the interests shown during the period 30 June 3 J essica White was appointed to the Board on 22 June 2017 and her shareholding is shown at her date of appointment.
She has five years from this 2017 to 5 September 2017 inclusive, with the exception of the shares to be deferred in respect of date to meet the shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary.
the bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary by Executive Directors for the financial year 4 Jock Lennox joined the Board on 1 July 2016. ended 30 June 2017 the details of which can be found on page 96.
5 Neil Cooper left the Board on 19 January 2017.
The shares shown in the table above are as at his date of leaving.
6 M ark Rolfe stepped down from his position on 16 November 2016.
The shares shown in the table above, are asat his date of leaving.
To be classified as a good leaver from the Company, the Executive Directors, will be required to commit to retaining a total shareholding of 100% and 75% respectively of the value of their final salary in the Companys shares for two years following their leaving date.
2 T he ESOS is divided into two sub-schemes, one of which is approved under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and the other of which is not.
The exercise price is calculated differently for each sub-scheme in accordance with the rules of the ESOS.
Executive Directors have until 9 December 2019 to exercise their options under the ESOS.
3 100% of this award vested on 24 October 2016.
The relevant number of shares were released to each participant thereafter following the settlement of any tax and national insurance liabilities due on the shares.
4 This award was tested after 30 June 2017 and 100% of the award will vest in October 2017 see page 97 for further details.
These awards will be released to the participants as soon as possible following the vesting date.
The awards for David Thomas and Steven Boyes are subject to a two-year holding period commencing 1 July 2017.
5 A ward based on an allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
One-third of the award is subject to a three-year TSR performance condition, one-third is based on the achievement of an EPS target for the financial year ending 30 June 2018 and the remaining third is based on the achievement of a ROCE target for the financial year ending 30 June 2018.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions.
The awards for David Thomas and Steven Boyes are subject to a two-year holding period commencing 1 July 2018.
See page 98 for an update on performance to date against the targets.
7 A ward based on an allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to 50% of base salary.
50% of the award is subject to the achievement of an EPS target for the financial year ending 30 June 2018 and the other 50% is based on the achievement of a ROCE target for the financial year ending 30 June 2018.
8 Jessica White joined the Board on 22 June 2017.
The awards shown are those granted to her prior to being appointed as Chief Financial Officer.
9 This award was subject to two performance conditions EPS 50% and ROCE 50% for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
The performance conditions were tested after 30 June 2017 and 100% of the award will vest in October 2017.
10 Neil Cooper left the Board on 19 January 2017 at which time his options and awards lapsed.
Neil Cooper was treated as a good leaver in respect of his DBP award granted on 17.10.2016 with awards vesting following the announcement of the half year results on 23 February 2017.
All conditional awards and share options are subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the relevant targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has the authority to reduce the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
102 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dilution The previous full actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 30 November 2013 showed a deficit of 34.8m calculated on the basis of the Schemes technical provisions.
The Company and the On maturity or vesting of any of its share incentive schemes the Company satisfies the awards Trustees of the Scheme agreed a plan to address the shortfall which required the Company through: a new issue of shares: market purchases: or the EBT.
During the financial year to make deficit reduction payments of 13.3m per annum until 30 November 2015, followed by ended 30 June 2017, the Company continued to satisfy all outstanding Executive options and payments of 9.5m per annum from 1 December 2015 until 31 December 2016.
Since 1 January awards under the LTPP, 2009 10 ESOS, the DBP and the Sharesave through a new issue of 2017, the Company has continued to make deficit reduction payments of 9.5m per annum and shares, subject to the dilution limits described below.
Awards made to individuals below Senior it was intended that these would continue until 28 February 2018 or until the Scheme reaches Management level continued to be satisfied through shares currently held, or to be purchased in full funding on its long term funding basis, if earlier.
In March 2017, the Board were advised the market, by the EBT.
that the triennial valuation undertaken in November 2016 had indicated a 69.2m deficit.
In order The Company regularly monitors the number of shares issued under its schemes and the to address the deficit, the Board has agreed to increase its annual contribution from 9.5m to impact on dilution limits.
The Company is satisfied that as at 30 June 2017 its usage of shares 14.5m for a period of three years from 1 April 2017.
Thereafter contributions of 10.0m per is compliant with the relevant dilution limits set by the Investment Association in respect of annum will be made until the Scheme is fully funded.
The valuation for the Financial Statements all share plans 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period and was updated to 30 June 2017 by a qualified independent actuary and a surplus of 13.6m discretionary share plans 5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling ten-year 2016: surplus of 8.1m is included in the Group Balance Sheet as shown in note 6.2.
In the event that the outstanding options under each of the schemes to be satisfied Financial Statements.
through a new issue of shares were to vest and had been exercised on 30 June 2017, the resulting Members of the Scheme are also eligible for an insured lump sum of up to five times pensionable issue of new shares would represent 1.6% of the Companys issued share capital as at that date.
salary on death in service.
Current employees who were members of the defined benefit section of the Scheme at closure also retain their dependants pension entitlements.
Executive Directors pension arrangements No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by current and or past The Companys pension policy for Executive Directors is that on joining the Group they will be Directors in respect of their qualifying services during the financial year and there are no auto-enrolled unless they choose to opt-out.
Upon opting-out, the Executive Director may choose arrangements in place that guarantee pensions with limited or no abatement on severance to receive a cash supplement which does not count for incentive purposes and or participate orearly retirement.
in the Companys defined contribution money purchase pension plan.
Each of the Executive Directors have opted to receive a cash supplement in lieu of pension.
For FY17, David Thomas Payments to former Directors and those leaving the Group Audited and Steven Boyes received an amount equal to 25% of base salary in line with market practice.
Jessica White, with effect from 22 June 2017, received an amount equal to 15% base salary in line Neil Cooper with the Remuneration Committees decision for new Executive Directors to receive a pension Neil Cooper stepped down from the Board on 19 January 2017.
Under the termination contribution equivalent to other Senior Managers, currently 15% base salary.
Only the base arrangements agreed with the Company he will continue to receive a monthly sum in respect salary element of a Directors remuneration is pensionable.
of salary of 37,833, plus a cash supplement in lieu of pension of 9,458 per month and a car allowance of 1,250 per month all less withholding for income tax and national Insurance Defined benefit section contributions.
He would also continue to be provided with private health insurance valued at Steven Boyes was a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the Barratt Group Pension 1,199 per annum for a period of 12 months or, if earlier, up until the date on which alternative and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme during the year ended 30 June 2017. employment is obtained.
In addition he has been paid 6,985 in lieu of holidays accrued but not The Scheme was closed to new entrants in 2001 and on 30 June 2009, the Company exercised taken during his period of employment and a contribution of up to 9,500 excluding VAT for its consent under the rules of the Scheme and agreed to cease offering future accrual of defined legal fees in connection with his loss of office based on fees actually incurred.
With effect from benefits for current members.
Members of the Scheme became eligible to join the defined 5 June 2017, Neil Cooper secured alternative employment.
In accordance with the termination contribution money purchase section of the Scheme with effect from 1 July 2009. arrangements agreed, the monthly sum in respect of salary was adjusted to 12,833 less withholding for tax and national insurance contributions.
The payments in lieu of pension and the Until 30 June 2009, Steven Boyes was an active member of the defined benefit section of the car allowance remain unchanged.
This entitlement was based on a 1 60 accrual rate and a normal retirement age of 65.
Since 1 July 2009, Steven Boyes has been entitled to receive a cash supplement which is currently equal to 25% of his base salary per annum.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 103 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Neil Coopers Option under the CFO Scheme 76,175 ordinary shares with an option price of Total Shareholder Return performance graph 10 pence per share and award under the LTPP 122,440 ordinary shares, both granted on Chart 2, prepared in accordance with the regulations, shows the TSR performance over the last 21 December 2015 lapsed immediately on leaving the business.
The option over 3,734 ordinary eight years against the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and against an unweighted index shares granted under the Companys Sharesave also lapsed upon Neil leaving the business.
The Board has chosen these comparative indices as the Group and its In accordance with the rules of the DBP the Remuneration Committee determined that he major competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices.
The TSR has been calculated should be treated as a good leaver in respect of the 25,144 ordinary shares awarded in respect using a fair method in accordance with the regulations.
of performance in the year to 30 June 2016 and these subsequently vested on 23 February 2017 following the release of the half year results.
All other awards granted to Neil Cooper lapsed on Chart 2 Total Shareholder Return cessation of his employment.
No further payments were made to any former Directors during the year ended 30 June 2017 Value re-based 30 June 2016: nil except otherwise disclosed in this Remuneration report.
700 No payments were made in respect of loss of office during the year ended 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: nil except as otherwise disclosed in this Remuneration report.
600 Chief Executives relative pay 500 Table 23 sets out: i the total pay, calculated in line with the single figure methodology: ii the annual bonus pay out as a percentage of maximum: and iii the long term incentive LTI vesting 400 level for the Chief Executive over an eight-year period David Thomas for FY16 & FY17 and Mark Clare for FY10 to FY15 : 300 Table 23 Chief Executives pay Audited 200 Eight years to 30 June 2017 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 100 Chief Executives total 1,417 1,220 2,099 4,310 6,430 7,363 3,155 3,331 pay 000 Bonus outturn as percentage 90.2 36.6 99.2 100.0 100.0 93.2 97.4 97.5 0 of maximum opportunity June June June June June June June June June LTI vesting as a percentage 0.0 0.0 32.8 73.9 95.8 100.0 100.0 100.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ofmaximum award Barratt Developments PLC Index of currently listed housebuilders FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2017, of 100 invested in Barratt Developments PLC on 30 June 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index and 100 invested equally in each of the Housebuilders Index excluding Barratt Developments.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 104 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to employees Non-Executive directorships Table 24 shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned by the Neither David Thomas, Steven Boyes nor Jessica White held any Non-Executive directorships Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive on 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017, compared with other companies during the year.
Neil Cooper received a total fee of 36,223 in respect of tothat of the average pay of all employees of the Group.
the period 1 July 2016 to 19 January 2017, being the date that he left the Board, for his position as a Non-Executive Director of Pennon Group PLC.
He retained this fee in full.
Table 24 Percentage change in remuneration Statement of shareholding vote at AGM Salary Benefits Annual bonus % change % change % change At the 2016 AGM, a resolution was proposed to shareholders to approve the Annual report on remuneration advisory vote for the year ended 30 June 2016 for which the following votes Chief Executive 3.0 13.3 3.1 were received: Average pay of all employees 3.4 6.8 5.7 Table 26 Relative importance of spend on pay Remuneration report The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for all employees relative Number of votes % votes cast todividends and profit from operations: Votes cast in favour 649,042,955 98.25 Votes cast against 11,585,912 1.75 Table 25 Relative importance of spend on pay Total votes cast 660,628,867 100.00 2017 2016 % Votes withheld 7,223,314 m m change Staff costs including Executive Directors 371.7 369.8 0.5 2 At the 2014 AGM, a resolution was proposed to shareholders to approve the Directors Profit from operations 799.2 668.4 19.6 Remuneration Policy binding vote to remain in place for three years following its approval 3 Total capital return 420.6 308.4 36.4 byshareholders for which the following votes were received: 1 S ee note 2.3 of the Financial Statements.
2 P rofit from operations has been chosen as a metric to compare against as it shows how spend on pay is linked to the Groups Table 27 operating performance.
Remuneration policy 3 I ncludes interim dividend of 7.3 pence per share paid on 19 May 2017 to those shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 21 April 2017 and a final dividend of 17.1 pence per share and a special dividend of 17.3 pence per share, value of which has been calculated on the number Number of votes % votes cast of shares in issue excluding those held by the EBT as at 30 June 2017.
The final dividend and special dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Votes cast in favour 572,737,897 99.00 2017 AGM, will be paid on 20 November 2017 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 October 2017.
Votes cast against 5,790,872 1.00 Total votes cast 578,528,769 100.00 Votes withheld 4,197,458 This Remuneration report was approved by the Board on 5 September 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Richard Akers Non-Executive Director 5 September 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 105
