Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT AND SUMMARY Dear Shareholder Full details of the executive directors remuneration for I am pleased to introduce our Directors Remuneration 2017 can be found in the Single Figure on page 72 and the Report for 2017. full Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 72 to 90.
"Backdrop to the FY17 targets and FY17 Business Review The Committee takes very seriously its duty to exercise Annual Bonus targets for FY17 judgment and ensure outcomes are reflective of the As we set out in last years remuneration report, when Companys underlying performance and shareholder theCommittee met to finalise the targets for FY17, it was experience. """
Reward aligned in the context of a more uncertain economic outlook, with performance No discretion on any element of remuneration was especially in the UK, where activity levels had materially and reflecting exercised during FY17.
decreased in the immediate aftermath of the acyclical EUreferendum decision in June 2016.
The executive directors received base salary increases of The Committee carefully considered the targets it should Paul Harrison 2.0% effective from 1 July 2017.
This was in line with the Chairman of the apply to incentive awards both annual bonus and PSP average pay increase for other UK relevant employees.
Specifically, we decided to significantly Committee widen the range around the EPS targets for the FY17 The FY18 Bonus and PSP structures for the executive annual bonus to reflect the increased uncertainty on FY17 directors are subject to the outcome of the shareholders earnings and to ensure that any maximum bonus target binding vote on the Remuneration Policy the Policy would require a level of profit achievement above the atthe November 2017 AGM.
It is proposed that executive then consensus external forecast and that achieved in directors will receive an FY18 PSP grant of 150% of base FY16.
Additionally, the mid-point of the target range was salary reduced from 175% which will vest in 2020 consistent with external forecasts at that time.
dependent on the performance criteria being met.
The Annual Bonus potential will also be 150% of base salary Against a mixed market backdrop our business increased from 125%.
Although the shortand long-term continues to outperform the market incentive plans have been slightly rebalanced for FY18, Against this market backdrop, 2017 has been a good there is no increase to overall quantum.
The financial performance delivered was significantly in excess of both the Boards expectations The approach to setting our new Policy is explained atthe start of the year and that of the market and this below and the proposed modest changes are outlined in helped lead to two profit upgrades during the year, the At A Glance section on page 61.
Further details are whichcontributed to a strong share price performance.
given on page 62 as well as in the Policy subject to the binding vote which can be found on pages 64 to 71.
With our markets outside of the UK broadly supportive, management invested to deliver overall good like-for-like Executive Remuneration Policy Review net fee growth of 6% and delivered a solid profit During 2017, the Committee concluded its in-depth performance up 1%.
The international business delivered review of the overall executive remuneration policy record headline and like-for-like fees and profits.
This andstructure with a view to ensuring that it is still fit for growth more than offset the declines in the UK business, purpose in light of our strategy over the coming years where trading was tough.
Finally, cash performance was and the continuing cyclical nature of our business.
strong and this, allied to the strong growth in EPS, led to While we have a diversified portfolio designed to try and amaterial increase in dividends toshareholders.
mitigate substantial swings in business performance by This is the third year in a row that Hays has delivered embracing both temporary and permanent candidate market-leading results and this has directly contributed placements, wide-ranging business specialisms and a towards the reward outcomes for the executive directors global geographical footprint, we nevertheless are both in the annual and long-term incentives as will be subject to the volatility and vagaries of the economic covered below.
markets which can create sudden changes within the recruitment industry.
As we move forward and encounter Our executive reward for 2017 reflects these results the outcomes of economic changes such as the effect of and links pay to performance the Brexit referendum in the UK, the Committee wants Annual Bonus to ensure that our reward structure and remuneration Annual Bonus awards reflected the 2017 performance policy complement our future strategy and incentivise and were 92.53% of the maximum award 115.67% of base our executives to drive long-term shareholder value.
salary out of a maximum of 125% of base salary for the CEO and CFO.
40% of each award will be deferred for In such challenging environments, where it is extremely three-years.
difficult to give an accurate, robust long-term prediction of the economy, the Committee believes it is important 2014 Performance Share Plan PSP that the executives reward is consistent with the need to The 2014 PSP vested at 59.76% of the maximum award be agile in managing the business.
It is for this reason that 104.57% of salary out of a maximum of 175% reflecting the Committee is proposing some modest adjustments to the three-year performance period that ended on the focus of its incentive plans.
58 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information What we are proposing Other Committee activities in FY17 A modest rebalance of the incentive plans: Appointment of a new Independent Adviser to theCommittee Annual Bonus will be increased from 125% of salary to 150% Following the appointment of PwC as the Companys of salary to place increased importance on the shorternew Auditor, from 1 July 2016, PwC no longer actedas the term profit targets of the company during a potentially independent adviser to the Committee.
volatile economic period during which agility and fast response in managing the business will be required.
The Committee appointed FIT Remuneration Consultants as an interim adviser while a full formal tender was The Performance Share Plan PSP will be decreased conducted, following which Deloitte was appointed as from 175% to 150% of salary.
Metricweightings will be Independent Adviser from November 2016.
Further rebalanced to place increased emphasis on operational details can be found on page 90. cash generation.
This focuses on long-term business efficiency and return to shareholders through dividend Regular agenda items payments which is in line with our strategic priority Our key regular agenda items include reviewing the basic togenerate and distribute meaningful cash returns pay, bonus and PSP awards for the executive directors toinvestors.
The Committee ensures thattheir targets and objectives are suitably stretching, The TSR weighting will be reduced to recognise the including the principal Company financial performance reduction in a meaningful comparator group of similar indicators together with longer-term strategic initiatives size and business mix.
and take into account Group risk.
We also consider the Overall quantum Annual Bonus and PSP remains relationship between executive reward and the reward thesame.
structures in place for other Group employees.
The Committee is always mindful to ensure the strength of Bonus deferral has been increased from 40% to 50% to the link of performance to reward and that it does not ensure the cash element stays at the same level and so reward for failure.
that the time horizon for delivery of awards is not shortened.
The Committee also reviewed the Chairmans fee which was increased by 2%.
NED fees were also increased as In addition, we have introduced a two-year Holding Period outlined on page 88. following PSP vesting and increased the CFOs shareholding requirement from 100% to 200% of base salary to align We aim to be clear, concise and straightforward in him with the CEO.
As shown on page 82, the CEOs ourreporting andCFOs current shareholdings significantly exceed We aim to make the Directors Remuneration Report clear, these levels.
concise and easy to follow.
For new executive appointments we have lowered our To help with understanding the FY17 remuneration pension contribution to up to 15% of base salary.
outcomes in relation to our current Policy, we have included a Remuneration At A Glance page.
The proposed changes to our Policy are set out in more detail on page 62.
We hope that readers will find this helpful.
Shareholder consultation We trust that this report demonstrates how we balance The Committee is committed to open and honest dialogue performance, reward and underlying associated with its shareholders and engaged with, and sought behaviours and that we place great importance on feedback from, 27 of its shareholders and from investor ourduty to shareholders.
advisory bodies with respect to the proposed changes Paul Harrison tothe Policy.
The Committee is very appreciative of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee time, constructive dialogue and engagement received.
30 August 2017 Overall, feedback from shareholders has indicated See the Committees Terms of Reference online at positive support for the proposed Policy changes and, haysplc.
com subject to the outcome of the binding vote, it is the Committees expectation that it will operate the Policy forthe next three years.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 59 Governance CHAIRMANS ANNUAL STATEMENT AND SUMMARY CONTINUED Membership and meetings Five formal meetings were held during FY17 in July 2016, August 2016, January 2017, March 2017 and May 2017.
In addition, members attended telephone briefings or discussions as required.
Membership and meetings July August January March May Name Position 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 Chairman of Remuneration Committee Paul Harrison and Senior dependent Director Independent non-executive director Torsten Kreindl Independent non-executive director Victoria Jarman Independent non-executive director Pippa Wicks Independent non-executive director Peter Williams Independent non-executive director MT Rainey Note: Susan Murray and Andrew Martin joined the Committee on 12 July 2017 and are therefore not listed above.
This report is structured as follows: Section What it includes Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman page 58 Remuneration At A Glance page 61 Summary of our proposed Remuneration Policychanges page 62 Remuneration Policy submitted for a binding vote pages 64 to 71 Annual Report on Remuneration 1.
Single Figure of Remuneration pages 72 to 90 2.
Remuneration in the broader context 4.
S tatement of Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the following financial year 5.
Governance Our full current Remuneration Policy Our full current Remuneration Policy as applicable to FY17 can be found on our website at haysplc.
com 60 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE How have we performed?
Reward linked to performance what did we do?
More details page 74 More details page 72 Reward Component What we have done Bonus - maximum potential 125% of base salary Base salary Increased salaries for CEO and CFO by 2.0%.
Metrics measure success of the day-to-day management Increase in line with budget set for UK of a volatile and cyclical business.
employees of 2.0% Bonus CEO: 92.53% of maximum, i. e. 115.67% % of max of salary equating to 836,813 Metric Target Actual achieved CFO: 92.53%% of maximum, i. e. 115.67% EPS 7.13p 9.275p 100% of salary equating to 603,341 Cash Conversion 86% 92.62% 77.66% 40% of the above awards deferred into Personal CEO CFO 85% shares for three years PSP 150% of salary to be awarded subject to As explained in the backdrop section earlier in the report, we set the maximum shareholder approval of Policy payout at EPS of 8.51p Shareholdings CEO: 957% of base salary September 2014 PSP award grant 175% of base salary Beneficial CFO: 668% of base salary Metrics measure success of managing the long-term ownership sustainabilityof the business.
The Single Figure can be found on page 72 % of max Metric Threshold Maximum Actual achieved EPS 21.51p 25.17p 25.70p 100% What changes have we proposed to the Cash Conversion 71% 101% 93.23% 79.27% Remuneration Policy for FY18?
Relative TSR Median of Upper 19.61% 0% comparator quartile of 6th More details page 62 group comparator group This Policy is subject to shareholder approval Total % of award vesting: 59.76% at the November 2017 AGM % of Salary: 104.57% Annual Bonus Key general business highlights Moved from 125% to 150% of base salary Like-for-like net fee growth of 6% Deferral increased from 40% to 50% of bonus therefore there Record international net fees and profits is no change to the level of the cash element which remains at Profit performance materially ahead of Board and market 75%of salary and the time frame for delivery remains the same expectations No change to performance metric weightings Strong cash performance PSP Moved from 175% to 150% of base salary Performance Metrics remain the same but are reweighted: Summary of our current Remuneration Policy and Structure for FY17 Metric From To EPS One-third 30% Key Reward component Key features Cash Conversion One-third 50% Competitive salary and benefits Base Salary and Relative TSR One-third 20% to attract right calibre of executive Core benefits Introduced a two-year Holding Period post vesting Annual Bonus Max potential 125% of salary Overall variable incentive quantum remains unchanged Key financial KPIs and personal 60% EPS Shareholding requirements objectives 20% Cash Conversion Increased shareholding requirement for CFO from 100% 20% Personal to 200% of base salary in line with CEO Max potential 175% of salary Performance Share Plan Pension KPIs focused on long-term 1 3 EPS Pension for new executive director recruitment will be up sustainability and shareholder 1 3 Cash Conversion to 15% of base salary to align with the Management Board returns 1 3 TSR reductionfrom past Policy of 30% Rationale for Changes Shareholding CEO: 200% of salary The modest rebalance of incentives helps to align with the CFO: 100% of salary Requirements need to proactively manage the business during a potentially Ensure material personal stake challenging economic period, recognising that Hays is a highly in the business cyclical business It therefore places increasing importance on shorter-term profit Strong link of performance with reward through EPS in the annual bonus and long-term business efficiency Take into account risk management and incorporate through the increased weighting on the cash element of the PSP, malus and clawback and extends the long-term focus through the introduction of the Holding Period without any increase to overall quantum Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 61 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BACKGROUND TO OUR PROPOSED REMUNERATION POLICY THE POLICY CHANGES The Committee conducted an in-depth review of the Policy with a Hays is a highly cyclical business and has built a diversified portfolio view to ensuring it is still fit for purpose in light of both our strategy designed to try and best mitigate this by: and the continuing cyclical nature of our business.
We have also taken Balancing the business between permanent 42%, and temporary into consideration the views and guidelines issued by investor bodies contractor candidate placements 58% : and market practice developments.
Having a wide range of business specialisms covering 20professional sectors: and As a result of this review, the Committee determined that the current Having a global geographic footprint in 33 countries.
Policy remained broadly fit for purpose.
The main challenge we face is the cyclicality of our business which we feel can be best addressed by Nevertheless, the Company is subject to the volatility and vagaries increasing the short-term focus on profit and the long-term focus on ofthe economic markets which can create sudden changes within cash generation, which can be achieved without changing the overall therecruitment market and industry.
In the light of this, we have proposed some modest As we stated in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, over the changes to the Policy that are outlined below.
last year this has manifested itself through the general uncertainty Business context triggered by the Brexit referendum in the UK.
Our strategic priorities remain the same: to deliver relative superior Proposed changes financial performance through the cycle.
Rebalancing Our current strategy is built around four strategic priorities and we In this environment, where it is extremely difficult to give an accurate, see these priorities continuing over the next three years.
These are to: robust long-term prediction of the economy, the Committee believes Materially increase and diversify Group profits: it is important that the executives reward is consistent with the Build critical mass and diversity across our global platform: needto be agile in managing the business.
It is for this reason that Invest in people and technology, responding to change and theCommittee has proposed some modest adjustments to the focus building relationships: and of its incentive plans.
Generate, reinvest and distribute meaningful cash returns.
Proposed Changes Comments Incentive mix The overall quantum remains the same.
Rebalance the shortand long-term variable incentives from 125% and 175% of base salary to 150% and 150% respectively.
Performance metrics The weighting on the relative TSR metric in the PSP has been reduced, recognising that the The metrics and weightings remain the same comparator group of companies of similar size and business mix has reduced over time and in the Annual Bonus: therefore represents a less meaningful comparison and incentive tool.
EPS: 60% The weighting has been rebalanced towards the cash element of the PSP.
This focuses on Cash Conversion: 20% long-term business efficiency and return to shareholders through dividend payments Personal objectives: 20% which is in line with our strategic priority aim to generate and distribute meaningful cash returns to investors.
The metrics in the PSP remain the same but the weightings move from equal thirds to: Historically, Cash Conversion is defined as the operating cash flow of the Company after EPS: 30% deducting net Capital Expenditure stated as a percentage of Operating Profit before Cash Conversion: 50% exceptional items.
Going forward, the Committee wants to place particular focus on Relative TSR: 20% Operating Cash Flow pre Capital Expenditure.
This adjustment is designed to increase thefocus on ongoing operational cash efficiency, whatever the trading circumstances ofthebusiness.
As in the current Policy, the Committee will continue to take into account the following factors when setting EPS targets for the PSP in the proposed Policy: Budget the setting of which is a robust and transparent process : Strategic direction of the business over the period covered by the PSP award: Market conditions and visibility of future trading: and Analyst forecasts.
Historically, targets have been based off an RPI level.
However, as RPI is a UK only index and the UK now represents only c. 25% of the Group, combined with the fact that over the last five years RPI and wage inflation in our markets have been fide minimis, it is no longer appropriate or relevant for RPI to be used in setting the growth targets.
62 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Proposed Changes Comments Bonus deferral This maintains the same actual level of cash payment equating to 75% of base salary.
The split of cash and deferral in the Annual It also ensures that long-term focus through deferral is maintained.
Bonus increases from 60%:40% to 50%:50% respectively.
Introduction of a holding period This creates further long-term alignment with shareholders.
The PSP will have an additional two-year Holding Period post vesting.
Alignment of shareholding requirements This ensures both the CEO and CFO have a material personal stake in the business and The CFOs shareholding requirement will be align to shareholders.
increased to 200% of base salary to align with that of the CEO.
Future pension provisions This aligns more closely to the senior management employees.
For the new recruitment Policy it is proposed to have a pension contribution allowance of up to 15% of base salary currently 30%.
Current structure Proposed structure Base salary 100% Base salary 100% 1 Pension 30% Pension 30% Cash bonus 75% Cash bonus 75% Deferred bonus 50% Deferred bonus 75% PSP 175% PSP 150% 1 For existing executive directors.
As illustrated below, the changes result in a clear focus on annual profit growth in the Annual Bonus Plan and, bychanging the weighting of the metrics in the PSP, place emphasis on long-term cash generation.
Relative weighting of measures Current structure Proposed structure Bonus PSP Bonus PSP Individual, Individual, TSR, 20 20 20 TSR, One-third Cash, 20 Cash, 20 Cash, 50 Cash, One-third EPS, 60 EPS, 60 EPS, EPS, 30 One-third Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 63 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY Introduction The Committee considers that a successful Policy needs to be In accordance with the regulations, the Directors Remuneration sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Policy the Policy as set out below will become formally effective Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
atthe Annual General Meeting on 15 November 2017 and is expected Discretion to apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out Policy summary in this Report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and The Committee determines the Policy for the Chairman, executive administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by directors and other senior executives for current and future years and shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee this is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Policy is designed to support hasthe discretion to amend the Policy with regard to minor or the strategic objectives of the Company and to allow the business to administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the attract, retain and motivate the quality of individuals needed to shape Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
and execute the strategy and deliver shareholder value.
Prior commitments The Policy is designed around the following key principles: The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including the exercise Ensure a strong link between reward and individual and Company ofany discretions available to it in connection with such payments performance to align the interests of senior executives with those notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy where the of shareholders: terms of the payment were i agreed before 12 November 2014 Provide a balanced package with a focus on variable pay: when the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Take into account the associated risks of each aspect of Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy came remuneration: into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent Encourage a material, personal stake in the business and with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in a long-term focus on sustained growth through long-term force at the time they were agreed: and iii at a time when the shareholding: individual to whom the payment is made was not a director of the Maintain a competitive package against businesses of a comparable Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not size in the FTSE and comparable peer group businesses in the in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
recruitment sector with reference to the breadth of the role and For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying experience the role holder brings to the Company: and awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, Operate a consistent reward and performance philosophy the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and consistent.
Employees receive base salary and benefits and may receive bonus, pension and share awards with levels varying depending on the individuals location, seniority and responsibilities.
Salary increases for executive directors are generally in line with those for UK-based employees.
Remuneration structure policy table Elements of executive director remuneration package Objective and link Maximum Performance conditions Element to the strategy Operation potential value and assessment Base salary Base salary Base salary is normally set annually on 1 July.
Whilst there is no prescribed maximum N A recognises individual level of salary, increases will normally be When determining the base salary of the contribution, changes in line with the market and the average executive directors the Committee takes into in responsibilities base pay increase for other employees consideration: and competitive inthe UK.
The levels of base salary for similar positions market rates.
Higher levels of increases may be made with comparable status, responsibility and skills Provides a base level where there is a significant change to the in organisations of broadly similar size and of remuneration to individuals responsibilities or where complexity: support recruitment there is significant difference to the The comparator groups currently include the and retention of market, for example in case of individuals FTSE 250, the companies in the Companys directors with the who are recruited, or promoted to the Total Shareholder Return TSR comparator necessary experience Board who may, on occasion, have their group used for PSP awards and UK companies and expertise to salaries set below the targeted policy of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee deliver the Groups level until they become established in intends to review the comparator groups each strategy.
In such cases subsequent year and may add or remove companies from increases in salary may be higher than the group as it considers appropriate.
Any Key element of core the average until the target positioning changes made in future to the comparator fixed remuneration.
group will be disclosed to shareholders in setting out the operation of the policy for The Company will normally set out in thesubsequent year in the section headed thesection headed Implementation of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in Remuneration Policy in the Following theFollowing Financial Year: Financial Year the salaries for that year foreach of the executive directors seepage 87.
64 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Elements of executive director remuneration package continued Objective and link Maximum Performance conditions Element to the strategy Operation potential value and assessment The performance of the individual executive director: The individual executive directors experience and responsibilities: and Pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The Committee has access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group when determining remuneration for the executive directors and also considers the relationship between general changes to pay and conditions within the Group as a whole.
Annual To align reward to key 50% of bonus earned will be paid in cash and Maximum 150% of base salary.
The current bonus bonus annual objectives 50% deferred into shares for three years under performance Threshold level of performance earns relating to the Groups the deferred annual bonus plan the DAB.
conditions are: 24% of salary based on achieving financial performance Earnings per share: Malus and Clawback provisions may be threshold EPS and cash conversion.
and operational Cash conversion: and appliedincase of: Zero payment for below threshold strength.
Material misstatement resulting in an The three-year adjustment to the audited accounts: The Remuneration deferral into shares Incorrect assessment of any performance Committee is of the aligns the interests conditions or award calculations due to an opinion that given the of executive directors erroror misleading information: and commercial sensitivity with those of Fraud and Gross misconduct.
arising in relation to shareholders and the detailed financial Malus provisions allow the Committee to reduce also assists with targets used for the or eliminate share awards granted under DAB.
annual bonus, Discretion may also be exercised in cases where disclosing precise the Committee believes that the bonus outcome targets for the bonus is not a fair and accurate reflection of business plan in advance would performance.
not be in shareholder interests.
This avoids The Committee has discretion to reduce the the risk of the number of shares vesting if the underlying Company inadvertently financial performance of the Company is not providing a profit satisfactory over the three-year deferral period.
forecast, because The Company operates in a rapidly changing profit targets are sector and therefore the Committee may change linked to budgets, the balance of the measures, or use different andgiving competitors measures for subsequent financial years, as an unfair advantage appropriate, to reflect this provided that at least because they are not 80% are normally based on financial performance.
required to report to the same disclosure The Company will disclose the nature of the standard as a UK-listed targets and their weightings at the end of each company.
Actual year in the relevant Annual Report on targets, performance Remuneration.
The performance conditions, achieved and awards targets, weightings and their level of satisfaction made willbe published for the year being reported on, are contained in at theend of the the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 74. performance periods The Committee retains discretion in exceptional so shareholders can circumstances to change the performance fully assess the basis measures and targets and their respective for any payouts under weightings part way through a performance year the annual bonus.
if there is a significant and material event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised incases where the Committee believes that thebonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Dividend equivalents may be provided on deferred shares.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 65 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Elements of executive director remuneration package Objective and link Maximum Performance conditions Element to the strategy Operation potential value and assessment Performance To incentivise the In accordance with plan rules, PSP awards are Normal awards will be Performance period of three financial Share Plan delivery of sustained granted annually and vesting is dependent on 150% of base salary for years.
PSP award long-term the achievement of performance conditions.
executive directors The performance conditions will be: performance and with absolute Awards are subject to a two-year Holding Period.
30% based on cumulative earnings align with share price maximum of 200% pershare: and dividend growth Malus provisions may be applied during the ofbase salary in 50% based on cumulative cash over the long-term.
Performance Period and Clawback provisions exceptional conversion: and may be applied during the Holding Period in circumstances.
20% based on total shareholder return caseof: Maximum and relative to the comparator group with Material misstatement resulting in an threshold vesting vesting subject to satisfactory financial adjustment to the audited accounts: levels for performance performance over the period, as Incorrect assessment of any performance conditions are 100% determined by the Committee.
conditions or award calculations due to an and 25% respectively.
erroror misleading information: and The Company operates in a rapidly Fraud and Gross misconduct.
changing sector and therefore the Committee may change the balance of Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, the measures, or use different measures performance criteria and other features remain for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
appropriate to the Companys current No material change will be made to the circumstances, and to ensure that there are no type of performance condition without features of the plan that could inadvertently prior shareholder consultation.
Details of the performance conditions for Dividend equivalents may be provided on grants made in the year will be set out in released shares.
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension To provide a Company pension contribution or salary Maximum 30% of base N A allowance competitive supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
salary for current retirement benefit.
As outlined Salary supplements will not be included in in the recruitment calculating any benefit based on salary including section, new directors the levels under the Companys incentive will receive up to 15% arrangements.
Other To provide Benefits will generally include: The maximum will N A benefits competitive be set at the cost of Car benefit or equivalent: employment benefits.
providing the listed Private medical insurance: benefits.
For example, Permanent health insurance: and current car allowance Life assurance.
The level of benefits provided is reviewed every year to ensure it remains market competitive.
Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate e. g. in case of relocation.
Shareholding To ensure that The Committee requires the Chief Executive and N A N A policy executive directors Chief Financial Officer to build and maintain a interests are aligned material shareholding in the Company of at least with those of two-times base salary over a reasonable time shareholders over a frame, which would normally be five years.
Only shares which are beneficially owned by the executives or subject to a holding period count towards this requirement.
The Committee has discretion to increase the shareholding requirement.
Sharesave To encourage wide The Company operates Sharesave Schemes UK scheme in line There are no performance conditions, in Schemes employee share in which the executive directors are eligible to with HMRC limits as line with HMRC requirements, other than ownership and participate which in the UK is HMRC approved amended from time the inherent share price growth required thereby align and is open to all eligible staff in the UK.
employees interests The Company retains the discretion to introduce Overseas schemes with shareholders.
additional plans, and to make directors eligible broadly in line with for these as appropriate.
66 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Non-executive director remuneration Objective and link Maximum Performance conditions Element to the strategy Operation potential value and assessment NonCompetitive fees The remuneration of the non-executive The fees are set normally around the None executive forChairman and directors is determined by the Board annually.
median compared to the Companys director fees non-executive comparator groups and will be within The responsibility of the role and international directors with the theArticles of Association limits.
nature of the Group are fully considered when necessary skills and setting the fee levels, along with external Additional fees are paid to individuals experience to advise benchmarking market data on the chairmanship chairing a committee and to the Senior and assist with of, and participation in, Board committees.
establishing and The comparator groups used are consistent monitoring the Groups The non-executive directors fees are with those used for the executive directors.
non-pensionable and non-executive The non-executive directors fees are nondirectors are not eligible to participate pensionable and non-executive directors are inany incentive plans.
not eligible to participate in any incentive plans.
The Chairman and non-executive directors will be reimbursed by the Company for allreasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties.
This may include costs associated with travel where required and any tax liabilities payable.
Notes to the policy table: The current constituents of the Companys The Committee believes that incentive metrics TSRcomparator group are shown below: should be simple and aligned with the delivery Adecco SA ofthe annual business plan and with long-term Kelly Services Inc sustainable growth.
Manpower Inc Page Group plc previously Michael Page The three main measures currently used are EPS, International plc Cash Conversion and relative TSR, with a clear Randstad Holdings NV focus on annual profit growth in the Annual Bonus Robert Half International Inc Plan and main emphasis on long-term cash Robert Walters plc generation in the PSP.
SThree plc 1 EPS metric is a key performance measure The peer group has been chosen to reflect most aligned with shareholder interests.
closely the mix of the Companys business.
2 Cash Conversion promotes sustained free cashflow and is a key indicator of ongoing Awards under any of the Companys share plans operational cash efficiency.
referred to in this report may: 3 The Annual Bonus includes an element of a Be granted as conditional share awards or Personal Objectives linked to the delivery of nil-cost options or in such other form that key projects designed to enhance the Groups theCommittee determines has the same operational strength and competitiveness in economic effect: line with future strategy.
b Have any performance condition applicable 4 Relative TSR is a measure favoured by a tothem amended by the Committee if the number of shareholders and provides for Committee determines that it has ceased to reward for outperformance of a number beafair measure of performance provided ofcomparators.
thatthe amended condition is not, in the Committees reasonable opinion, materially lessdifficult to satisfy: c Incorporate the right to receive an amount incash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid onthe shares under an award that vest until theaward is satisfied.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on acumulative basis: d Be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and e Be adjusted in the event of any variation of theCompanys share capital or any demerger, capital distribution or other event that may materially impact the Companys share price.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 67 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Service contracts The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a maximum 12-month period will apply for executive directors.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
In the event of early termination of a directors service contract, the Company would be required to pay compensation reflecting the salary, pension allowance and benefits to which the director would have become entitled under the contract during the notice period.
Alternatively, the Company may, at its discretion, pay a predetermined sum in lieu of notice.
In the event of early termination, the Committee will give careful consideration to what compensation should be paid, taking into account the circumstances and the responsibility of the individual to mitigate loss.
The contract of the Chief Executive was agreed prior to 27 June 2012 and includes in his sum in lieu of notice an amount equal to his on-target bonus pro-rated for time.
All future contracts will contain a PILON clause based purely on salary, pension allowance and benefits with payments staged over the notice period and an obligation to mitigate loss.
Current contract start date Unexpired term Notice period from Company Notice period from executive Alistair Cox September 2007 Indefinite One-year One-year Paul Venables May 2006 Indefinite One-year Six months The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but are appointed to the Board under letters of appointment for an initial three-year period.
They have agreed to annual retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting and, with the exception of the Chairman, appointments can be terminated immediately by the Company.
Letters of appointment are available for review from the Company Secretary and a pro forma letter of appointment can be viewed on the Companys website haysplc.
Susan Murray and Andrew Martin were appointed to the Board and Remuneration Committee on 12 July 2017.
Non-executive director Date appointed to the Board Date of current letter of appointment Notice period Alan Thomson 1 October 2010 14 July 2010 Renewed Three months Peter Williams 24 February 2015 24 February 2015 None Paul Harrison 8 May 2007 31 August 2011 None Victoria Jarman 1 October 2011 31 August 2011 None Torsten Kreindl 1 June 2013 30 May 2013 None MT Rainey 14 December 2015 14 December 2015 None Pippa Wicks 1 January 2012 30 November 2011 None Payments to departing directors The Committee will honour executive directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a directors cessation of office or employment where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an executive directors office oremployment or for any fees or outplacement assistance and or the directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
When determining any payment for a departing individual the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company while seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
The table below shows the approach the Committee will apply in respect of base salary, benefits and pension in respect of departing directors.
Application of Remuneration Component Approach Committee Discretion Base salary, benefits and In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for departure None pension due to misconduct.
In other circumstances, executive directors may be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu of notice will be equivalent to the salary payments, benefit value and pension contributions that they would have received if still employed by the Company for a maximum of 12 months.
Other contractual obligations There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior N A to 27 June 2012.
68 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The rules of the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus DAB set out the treatment of specific categories of leavers as set outin the table below.
In other cases where an executive leaves employment during the DAB period or during the PSP Performance Period, the Committee will consider the specific details of each case before determining whether to award Good Leaver status.
The Committee will provide a full explanation to shareholders when it is determined that an executive director is a Good Leaver.
The Committee is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
Category Cash Annual Bonus DAB Deferred Bonus Shares PSP Injury Ill-health Bonus paid at normal time, subject to Awards vest in full at normal vesting date.
To the extent that performance conditions Disability performance with pro-rating for time.
are met, awards are pro-rated for service during the performance period and released at the vesting date.
Death, or sale of Bonus paid immediately based on Awards vest in full on cessation of To the extent that performance conditions employing entity estimated performance with pro-rating employment.
are met, awards are pro-rated for service outof the Group fortime.
during the performance period but released early.
Change of control Bonus payment subject to pro-rating Immediate vesting of awards in full in In accordance with the plan rules, where for time and performance.
noreplacement award, there will be early vesting of awards pro-rated for service during the performance period and performance.
Notes: 1 It should be noted that shares vesting under 3 T he Committee has discretion under the rules 5 I n the event that the Committee determines the DAB rules are shares related to previously of the PSP to bring forward the date of vesting Good Leaver status to be applicable, it may earned bonus and therefore the performance for a good leaver to the date of the cessation impose certain conditions for an executive conditions for the relevant annual bonus had of employment subject to the award being receiving shares under DAB or PSP on tobe met before the shares were awarded.
pro-rated for time during the performance cessation of employment.
2 Under the DAB rules the Committee has the period and to the extent that performance is 6 Executives would be treated in accordance discretion to allow the award to vest early in met.
It is not the current intention of the with the scheme rules in respect of the HMRC exceptional circumstances following Committee to use this discretion.
cessationof employment as a good leaver.
4 A ny shares in the PSP Holding Period would be Itisanticipated that this would only apply released upon an executive leaving Hays for inthecase of death in service.
reason other than Gross Misconduct and wouldbe subject to any Clawback provisions prior to release.
Clawback provisions would continue to apply after release until the end of the normal Holding Period timeframe.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 69 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Chairman and non-executive directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment.
On termination, theyare only entitled to accrued fees to the date of termination.
Setting payments for new appointments The Companys principle is the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles for the executive directors, asset out in the remuneration policy table above.
The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessaryto attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the international market in which the Companycompetes.
The Remuneration Committee will not pay more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment  of any performance measures associated with an award.
The table below summarises the Companys key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration for executive directors: Component Policy Base salary, benefits The salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individuals experience and pension and responsibilities and other pay structures within the Company and will be consistent with the salary policy for executive directors.
The executive director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with the Companys benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension A pension allowance of up to 15% of base salary.
The Company may choose to give part or all as a cash allowance rather than pay into a Group pension fund.
Normal payroll deductions for example income tax and National Insurance social security willbe deducted from the gross cash allowance.
Annual Bonus and An executive director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus arrangements as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Deferred Bonus For the first year only, the Committee retains the discretion to set performance conditions in the context of the business priorities on joining and the time frame available to year end.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the Committees discretion.
Performance Share Plan An executive director will be eligible to participate in the PSP as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under plan rules at the Committees discretion.
Share buy-outs The Committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
replacement awards However, should the Committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buy-out, the value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the directors cessation of employment: The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and Any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy-out within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation policies In instances where the new executive director is expected to relocate, the Company will provide one-off ongoing payment s as part of the relocation benefits compensation.
The level of relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any differences in the cost of living housing schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The annual fees payable to newly recruited non-executive directors will be in line with the fees payable to existing non-executive directors.
70 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration scenario graphs for executive directors Value of package 000 The charts opposite illustrate the remuneration that would be paid 3,500 3,500 to each of the executive directors, based on salaries at the start 3,221 offinancial year 2018, under three different performance scenarios: 3,000 3,000 34.4% i Minimum: ii On-target: and iii Maximum.
The elements ofremuneration have been categorised into three components: 2,500 2,500 2,322 2,363 i Fixed: ii Annual Bonus: and iii PSP.
34.4% 29.3% 2,000 2,000 34.4% 1,703 PSP 29.3% 1,500 1,500 28.1% 34.4% Annual Bonus Fixed 1,000 28.1% 1,000 1,007 100% 42.6% 31.2% 726 500 100% 42.6% 31.2% 500 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Group Finance Director Chief Executive Each element of remuneration is defined in the table below: Element Description Fixed Total amount of salary and pension in respect of the 2018 financial year and benefits as disclosed under the FY17 singlefigure.
Annual Bonus Money or other assets received or receivable where performance measures relate to one financial year, i. e. annual bonus payments.
PSP Money or other assets received or receivable where performance measures relate to more than one financial year, i. e. PSP payments.
Assumptions used in determining the level of payout under given scenarios are as follows: Minimum performance scenario assumes fixed pay only and no variable payments under the annual bonus and PSP: On-target performance scenario assumes performance in line with the Companys expectations, resulting in 93.8% base salary payout inrespect of the PSP 62.5% of maximum award of 150% of base salary and 90% base salary payout in respect of the annual bonus 60% of maximum bonus of 150%.
There is no formal on-target figure for the PSP, 62.5% is midway between the 25% threshold and the maximum, based on an award of 150% of basic salary: and Maximum performance scenario assumes outstanding level of performance, resulting in 150% base salary payout in respect of the PSP and 150% base salary payout in respect of the annual bonus.
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to deferred share bonus and PSP share awards.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the group Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors and the members of the Management Board, the Committee considers a report prepared by the Group Head of Reward detailing remuneration practice across the Group.
The report provides a regional overview of how employee pay compares to the market, any material changes during the year and includes detailed analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within the UK where all of the executive directors and most of the Management Board are based.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the remuneration policy set out inthis report, the Company does receive an update and feedback from the broader employee population on an annual basis using an engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping and reviewing remuneration policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its remuneration policy.
In line with this commitment the Committee consulted this year with shareholders on the rebalancing of the Annual Bonus and PSP and the reweighting of the performance measures in the PSP.
The Committee is grateful for the comments and feedback.
At the end of this process the Remuneration Committee is pleased that a strong majority of shareholders consulted have indicated they are supportive of the changes to the Plans.
The reweighting of the financial measures more clearly differentiates the role of these measures in the annual bonus and PSP with now a clearer focus on profit in the bonus and sustainable cash generation in the PSP which mitigates some comments we had received in previous years regarding the use of the same measures in both plans.
Our shareholders have mixed views on relative TSR.
We have retained this measure although acknowledge the reduction in the peer group over time given consolidation in the industry and the challenge in determining a relevant peer group even in the same industry given the differences in business model and the countries that recruitment companies operate in.
Asaresult, the Committee determined to reduce its weighting.
The reduction in pension provision for future directors was notably a result of us monitoring emerging views of shareholders on specific aspects of the Policy.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 71 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Section 1 Total reward for FY17 ANNUAL REPORT In this section: 1.1.
4 Other benefits 1.1 FY17 Single Figure for 1.1.
5 Annual bonus ON REMUNERATION executive directors 1.1.
3 Pension NEDs Section 1 Total Reward for FY17 Remuneration for FY17 reflects the Policy approved by Shareholders at the 2014 AGM 1.1 FY17 Single Figure for executive directors Single Figure of remuneration audited The following table shows the total single figure of remuneration for each executive director in respect of qualifying services for the 2017 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2016 financial year have also been provided.
Details of non-executive directors NEDs fees are set out in 1.2 on page 78.
Annual Total 1 000s Salary Benefits Pension Other Bonus remuneration PSP Total 1 Executive director Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 excluding PSP Note 6 remuneration 2017 Alistair Cox 723 48 217 3 837 1,828 1,038 2,866 Chief Executive Paul Venables 522 34 156 2 603 1,317 749 2,066 Group Finance Director 2016 Alistair Cox 709 44 213 0 583 1,549 1,247 2,796 Paul Venables 511 34 153 2 420 1,120 899 2,019 1 2016 PSP figures now reflect the actual vesting price on 12 September 2016 of 1.316259.
The column Total Remuneration excluding PSP includes Salary, Benefits, Pension, Other and Annual Bonus.
Components of the Single Figure and how the calculations are worked The following tables explain how the Single Figure has been derived.
1 Salary note 1 audited Policy summary What has happened Set annually from 1 July.
Salaries were increased by 2.0% with effect from 1 July 2016.
Broadly aligned with salary increases for relevant UK employees.
This increase was the same as the wider budget set for relevant UK employees.
2 Benefits note 2 audited Policy summary What has happened Core benefits align with those for other UK employees.
There were no changes in FY17.
000s Private Medical Life Income Travel and Car Executive director Insurance PMI assurance protection mileage allowance Total 2017 Alistair Cox 3 9 12 4 20 48 Paul Venables 3 4 9 18 34 2016 Alistair Cox 3 8 9 4 20 44 Paul Venables 3 4 9 18 34 PMI, life assurance and income protection figures represent the annual premiums.
72 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 1.1.
3 Pension note 3 audited Policy summary What has happened Other than a cash payment in lieu of pension at the rate of There were no changes in FY17.
30%ofbase salary, there are no other pension arrangements forthe directors.
For the sake of clarity, neither executive director has any defined benefit pension provision.
000s Executive director Pension 2017 Alistair Cox 217 Paul Venables 156 2016 Alistair Cox 213 Paul Venables 153 1.1.
4 Other benefits note 4 audited Policy summary What has happened Alistair Cox and Paul Venables had a theoretical gain on date of The executive directors are able to participate in the Hays UK exercise which is shown below.
However, they did not sell the shares.
Sharesave Scheme in the same way as other eligible employees.
Alistair Cox and Paul Venables participated in the March 2017 Hays Sharesave Scheme and have options which are due for exercise from 1 May 2020 to 31 October 2020.
Details are shown on page 79.
000s Other Executive director 000 2017 Alistair Cox 3 Paul Venables 2 2016 Alistair Cox 0 Paul Venables 2 1.1.
5 Annual Bonus note 5 audited Policy summary What has happened Maximum bonus potential is 125% of base salary, of which 60% The figure shown is the total bonus awarded in relation to ispaid in cash and 40% of any award is deferred into shares.
performance in the year, including the portion that is deferred.
Bonus is based on financial KPIs and personal objectives.
For bonus awarded in relation to 2017 and 2016 performance, 40%ofthe figure shown is deferred into shares for three years.
Thereare no further performance conditions but leaver terms apply.
The cash element of the bonus award in relation to performance in 2017 is subject to Clawback for three years from award.
The deferred element is subject to Malus for the three year holding period.
See pages 74 and 75 for detailed information on performance against targets.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 73 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1.1.
5 Annual Bonus note 5 audited continued Summary Of which Of which % of 000s Annual cash deferred salary Executive director Bonus 60% 40% achievement 2017 Alistair Cox 837 502 335 115.67% Paul Venables 603 362 241 115.67% 2016 Alistair Cox 583 350 233 82.20% Paul Venables 420 252 168 82.20% Details of the FY17 Annual Bonus The performance metrics and objectives Assessment Achievement and what happens now 60% on earnings per share EPS : focuses The Committee reviews both the Alistair Cox on shareholder returns: Companys results and executive Achieved 115.67% of salary directors performance against their out of 125% maximum potential, 20% on cash conversion: ensures ongoing personal objectives.
business efficiency: and The basic EPS targets and actual This equates to a bonus of 836,813 20% on personal objectives: safeguard and performance were measured at budget asstated in the Single Figure of which: plan for the Companys future.
60% or 502,088 will be paid as cash: Personal objectives for FY17 included: and Cash conversion is the operating cash Alistair Cox: 40% or 334,725 will be deferred flow of the Company after deducting net Further expansion of our Construction intoshares for three years.
There are capital expenditure items for the financial &Property and Life Sciences businesses nofurther performance conditions.
year, stated as a percentage of operating in the US: profit before exceptional items.
Paul Venables Continue to develop the business in Achieved 115.67% of salary certain Digital Marketing and innovation In addition to assessment of the individual out of 125% maximum potential, projects: executives overall performance against i. e. 92.53% of maximum.
Satisfactorily complete a number of key key objectives, the Committee also takes operational people changes in certain into account its view of the directors This equates to a bonus of 603,341 named countries regions: and regulatory compliance and approach to asstated in the Single Figure of which: Work closely with the business to best risk including environmental, social or 60% or 362,005 will be paid as cash: and mitigate any impact from the Brexit vote governance ESG risks.
40% or 241,336 will be deferred into on our UK business.
The Committee has not exercised any shares for three years.
There are no Paul Venables: discretion in relation to bonus outcomes.
Completion of phase one of the German Clawback and malus back-office transformation project: The cash element of the bonus is subject Further embedding strong risk to clawback for three years from the date management processes and mitigation of award.
The deferred element is subject into a number of additional countries in to malus for the three-year deferral period.
the group: Satisfactorily complete a number of key finance people changes in certain named countries regions: and Work closely with the business to best mitigate any impact from the Brexit vote on our UK business.
Overall both executives achieved very high performance against these objectives.
Due to the strategic nature of the personal objectives for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, the Company feels that disclosing any more detail would be commercially sensitive.
74 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Calculation of actual results audited Annual Bonus 2017 outcome Alistair Cox Paul Venables Annual bonus value for meeting threshold and Threshold Maximum maximum Bonus Bonus Performance performance performance Actual performance Achievement value Achievement value condition Weighting required required performance % Salary % salary 000s % salary 000s EPS 60% 5.74p 8.51p 9.275p 15 75 75% 543 75% 391 Cash Conversion 20% 71% 101% 92.62% 5 25 19.42% 140 19.42% 101 Personal 20% 100% 85% 0 25 21.25% 154 21.25% 111 These totals are in the 2017 Total 2017 100% Single Figure 115.67% 837 115.67% 603 Both the target and actual performance were based on budget exchange rates.
Of which cash 502 Of which cash 362 Therefore actual performance is higher than the reported performance due to Of which Of which movements in exchange rates during the year.
deferred 40% 335 deferred 40% 241 Both Alistair Cox and Paul Venables achieved 85% of their personal objectives.
Total bonus achieved in 2016 82.20% 583 82.20% 420 Of which cash 350 Of which cash 252 Of which Of which deferred 40% 233 deferred 40% 168 Both Alistair Cox and Paul Venables achieved 85% of their personal objectives which are outlined on page 74.
6 PSP note 6 Policy summary What has happened Maximum potential for executive directors is 175% of base salary.
59.76% of the 2014 award vested in 2017, i. e. 104.57% of base salary Normally granted annually.
KPIs are focused on long-term sustainability and shareholder returns.
Performance period is three years.
Threshold performance equates to 25% of the award, i. e. 43.75% of salary.
Award is subject to malus provisions prior to vesting.
Awards made from FY16 are subject to clawback provisions forupto two-years post vesting.
PSP 2014 granted in FY15 vesting in 2017 The value of the 2014 PSP vesting in November 2017 is based on a share price of 1.6735, which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting will occur after the date of this Report.
The share price on award was 124.6 pence.
The award vested at 59.76% of the maximum i. e. 104.57% of base salary.
See pages 76 and 77 for detailed information on performance against targets.
Value 000s in Single Figure Executive director based on share price of 1.6735 Restatement 2017 Value will be restated in Alistair Cox 1,038 FY18 report when vesting share price is known.
Paul Venables 749 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 75 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Details of PSP 2014 granted in FY15 vesting in 2017 This PSP was granted under the Policy approved by shareholders in 2014.
The performance metrics and objectives Assessment Achievement and what happens now Three-year plan Cumulative Earnings Per Share is the Alistair Cox Performance period: 1 July 2014 consolidated basic earnings per share of Awarded 976,666 shares in 2014. to 30 June 2017. theCompany calculated in accordance with 59.76% of the award has vested.
IAS33 for each financial year cumulative Granted: 14 November 2014 and will vest 620,457 shares will be released in overthe performance period.
November 2017 which includes accrued impairments arising from acquisitions prior dividend equivalent shares, with the Performance Metrics to30 June 2006 are excluded from the exception of those relating to the dividends One-third on cumulative earnings per earnings per share calculation.
to be approved at this years AGM.
share EPS : focuses on longer-term The Committee may make adjustments to This equates to a value of 1,038,335 using shareholder returns.
the calculations of cumulative earnings per apreliminary share price of 1.6735 see One-third on Cumulative Cash Conversion: share, including taking into account unusual page75.
focuses on ongoing business cash or non-recurring items that do not reflect This value will be restated in 2018s Report efficiency, whatever the trading underlying performance.
once the final share price and number of circumstances of the company.
Cumulative Cash Conversion three-year dividends are known.
One-third on relative total shareholder Cash Conversion is the cumulative operating Paul Venables return TSR : cash flow of the Company after deducting Awarded 704,175 shares in 2014. netcapital expenditure items stated as a Ranks the performance of Hays against 59.76% of the award has vested.
percentage of cumulative operating profit asector group of comparator companies: 447,348 shares will be released in before exceptional items.
Adecco SA November 2017 which includes accrued TSR for each company is the difference CDI Corporation dividend equivalent shares, with the between the average market values in Kelly Services Inc exception of those relating to the dividends sterling terms of a notional shareholding Manpower Group Inc to be approved at this years AGM.
including dividends in that company on all Page Group plc previously Michael Page This equates to a value of 748,637 using dealing days for the three-month period prior International plc apreliminary share price of 1.6735 see to the start and end of the performance Randstad Holdings nv page75.
period, divided by the average market values Robert Half International Inc This value will be restated in 2018s Report in sterling terms of a notional shareholding Robert Walters plc once the final share price and number of in that company on all dealing days for the SThree plc dividends are known.
1 three-month period to the start of the USG People nv performance period.
The TSR for Hays shares is ranked against the respective TSR performance of the comparator group.
1 During FY16 USG People nv was purchased by Recruit Holdings Co. Ltd and its shares delisted.
The Vesting will be subject to satisfactory TSR calculation was conducted in line with the Plan rules under these circumstances.
financial performance over the performance period as determined by the Committee.
The Committee has not exercised any discretion in relation to PSP outcomes.
Actual results PSP 2014 granted in FY15 vesting in 2017 audited The share price used to calculate the award was 124.6 pence, being the closing price on the day preceding the grant date.
Performance period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2017 Grant date 14 November 2014 Release date 14 November 2017 76 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information PSP value as % of salary for: Threshold Maximum PSP Value Below performance performance Actual achieved as % threshold Threshold Maximum Performance condition Weighting required required Performance of base salary Relative TSR 1 3 Median of the Upper quartile 0 14.583 58.33 19.61% 6th 0% comparator of the group comparator group 1 EPS 1 3 21.51p 25.17p 0 14.583 58.33 25.70p 58.33% Cash conversion 1 3 71% 101% 0 14.583 58.33 93.23% 46.24% Total 100% 0 43.75 175 104.57% 25% of 100% of award award 1 The Committee took into account the following factors when setting the EPS targets: Budget the setting of which is a robust and transparent process : Company budget for FY15 and the expectations for performance: Strategic direction of the business over the period covered by the PSP award: Market conditions and visibility of future trading: Analysts forecasts: Real growth around an assumed RPI of 3% per annum.
The final Threshold and Maximum figures have been adjusted to reflect the actual RPI now known.
Number of shares that Maximum vested number of including shares dividend including equivalent dividend shares, equivalent with the shares, exception with the of those exception relating to Value figure 2013 award 2013 award Maximum of those the dividends shown in that vested in value restated Face Share number of relating to the to be Single 2016 as stated using share % of FY15 value at price at shares dividends to be approved at Figure of in the 2016 price at release salary award award excluding approved at this years Remuneration Single Figure date 1 2 Name awarded 000s dividends this years AGM AGM Release date 000s 000s 000s 14 November Alistair Cox 175 1,217 1.246 976,666 1,038,249 620,457 2017 1,038 1,194 1,247 14 November Paul Venables 175 877 1.246 704,175 748,576 447,348 2017 749 861 899 1 The value of the 2014 PSP is based on a share price of 1.6735 which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2017 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting will occur after the date of this report.
2 T he value of the 2013 PSP disclosed in the 2016 Single Figure was based on a share price of 1.261 which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2016 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting occurred after the date of the Report.
The share price on award was 1.139.
The actual share price on the date of vesting on 12 September 2016 was 1.316259.
This price has been used to restate the value of the 2013 PSP awards in the Single Figure for 2016 inthe table above and the Single Figure table on page 72.
Performance Conditions The Committee believes that the performance conditions for all incentives are: Suitably demanding: Have regard to business strategy: Incorporate an understanding of business risk: Consider shareholder expectations: and Take into account, to the extent possible, the cyclicality of the recruitment markets in which the Group operates.
To the extent that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award will lapse.
There is no re-testing of performance.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 77 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PSP 2013 granted in FY14 vesting in 2016 The value of the 2013 PSP which vested in 2016 and was disclosed in the 2016 Single Figure was based on a share price of 1.261 which was calculated using an average for the final quarter of the 2016 financial year in accordance with the Regulations as the vesting occurred after thedate of the Report.
Thisprice has been used to restate the value of the 2013 PSP awards in the Single Figure for 2016 in the table above and the Single Figure table on page 72.
Value restated based on actual 000s Value in 2016 Single Figure share price at vesting Executive director based on share price of 1.261 of 1.316259 2016 Alistair Cox 1,194 1,247 Paul Venables 861 899 1.2 Non-executive directors FY17 fees audited The table below shows the current fee structure and actual fees paid in 2017.
There were no taxable benefits paid in 2017 or 2016.
000s Alan Paul MT Victoria Torsten Pippa Peter Non-executive director Thomson Harrison Rainey Jarman Kreindl Wicks Williams Chairman SID R R R R R R N N N N N N N A A A A A A Base 250 55 55 55 55 55 55 Committee fee 1 Committee Chairman 12 12 SID 10 Total fee 2017 250 77 55 67 55 55 55 Total fee 2016 245 76 27 66 54 54 54 Key R Remuneration Committee member A Audit Committee member N Nomination Committee member SID Senior Independent Director RNA Chairman of relevant Committee 1 There is no additional Committee Chair fee for the Nomination Committee.
78 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 2 Long-term value creation In this section: 2.4 S tatement of directors 2.1 Outstanding deferred shareholdings annual bonus 2.
2 Share options 2.6 Payments to past 2.3 Outstanding PSP awards directors payment for loss of office during FY17 2.1 Outstanding deferred annual bonus awards DAB audited The table below shows the shares held under the DAB and those that were awarded or vested during the FY17.
The shares that vested related to deferred annual bonus from previous years.
The shares awarded in the financial year 2017 relate to deferred annual bonus in relation to performance in the financial year 2016. Dividend equivalent shares which accrue under the DAB have been ignored in the table below.
There are no further performance conditions.
Grant price Face value of Market price award granted Awards Awards Awards at date in FY17 Awards outstanding outstanding at granted in of award at grant price vesting in as at Name 1 July 2016 FY17 FY17 30 June 2017 Alistair Cox 756,386 168,747 1.382 233,209 312,881 651,591 Paul Venables 543,802 121,666 1.382 168,143 225,586 468,210 2.2 Share options Both executive directors participate in the UK Sharesave Scheme approved by HMRC on the same terms as other eligible employees.
The following table shows outstanding options over Ordinary shares held by the executive directors during the year ended 30 June 2017.
The value of the options at date of grant was therefore: Alistair Cox 9,880: and Paul Venables 5,928.
The option price of 1.43 included a 10% discount.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 79 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2.3 Outstanding PSP awards The tables below show the outstanding PSP awards where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditionsthat will be tested in future reporting periods.
The awards were made in line with the PSP in the Remuneration Policy approved byshareholders at the 2014 AGM.
2015 PSP granted in FY16 vesting 2018 The share price used to calculate the award is 1.622, being the closing price on the day preceding the grant date.
Performance period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018 Grant date 10 September 2015 Release date 10 September 2018 PSP value as % of salary for: Threshold Maximum performance performance Below Performance condition Weighting required required threshold Threshold Maximum 1 Relative TSR 1 3 Median of the Upper quartile of the 0 14.583 58.33 comparator group comparator group 2 EPS 1 3 25.06p 29.32p 0 14.583 58.33 Cash Conversion 1 3 71% 101% 0 14.583 58.33 Total 100% 0 43.75 175 25% of 100% of award award Face % of FY16 value at Share price Maximum Threshold salary award at award number of number Name awarded 000s shares of shares Alistair Cox 175 1,241 1.622 765,268 191,317 Paul Venables 175 895 1.622 551,757 137,939 1 TSR is measured against a bespoke comparator group, with vesting subject to satisfactory financial performance as determined by the Committee.
The comparator group is Adecco SA, CDI Corporation, Kelly Services Inc, Manpower Inc, Michael Page International Plc now Page Group, Randstad Holdings nv, Robert Half International Inc, Robert Walters Plc, SThree Plc and USG People nv delisted during 2016 following purchase by Recruit Holdings Co. Ltd.
The TSR calculation willtakethisinto account in line with the plan rules.
2 The Committee took into account the following factors when setting the EPS targets: Budget the setting of which is a robust and transparent process : Company budget for FY16 and the expectations for performance: Strategic direction of the business over the period covered by the PSP award: Market conditions and visibility of future trading: Analysts forecasts: Real growth around an assumed RPI of 3% per annum.
The final Threshold and Maximum figures will be adjusted once the actual RPI is known.
80 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2016 PSP granted in FY17 vesting 2019 The share price used to calculate the award is 1.373, being the closing price on the day preceding the grant date.
Performance period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2019 Grant date 12 September 2016 Release date 12 September 2019 PSP value as % of salary for: Threshold Maximum performance performance Below Performance condition Weighting required required threshold Threshold Maximum 1 Relative TSR 1 3 Median of the Upper quartile of the 0 14.583 58.33 comparator group comparator group 2 EPS 1 3 22.01p 25.75p 0 14.583 58.33 Cash Conversion 1 3 71% 101% 0 14.583 58.33 Total 100% 0 43.75 175 25% of 100% of award award Face % of FY17 value at Share price Maximum Threshold salary award at award number of number Name awarded 000s shares of shares Alistair Cox 175 1,266 1.373 922,134 230,533 Paul Venables 175 913 1.373 664,857 166,214 1 TSR is measured against a bespoke comparator group, with vesting subject to satisfactory financial performance as determined by the Committee.
The comparator group is Adecco SA, CDI Corporation, Kelly Services Inc, Manpower Inc, Michael Page International plc now Page Group, Randstad Holdings nv, Robert Half International Inc, Robert Walters Plc and SThree Plc.
2 The Committee took into account the following factors when setting the EPS targets for the award: Budget the setting of which is a robust and transparent process : Company budget for FY17 and the expectations for performance: Strategic direction of the business over the period covered by the PSP award: Market conditions and visibility of future trading: Analysts forecasts: An assumed RPI of 3% per annum.
3 The award is subject to malus for the three-year performance period and clawback for two-years post vesting.
The Committee notes that the EPS target range is lower in absolute terms than the targets applied to the awards made in FY16.
However, the Committee is entirely comfortable that these targets are no less challenging in relative terms than the targets applied to the FY16 award and reflect external forecasts.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 81 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2.4 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited Policy summary What has happened Shareholding requirements in operation at Hays are currently The number of shares of the Company in which current directors 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of base hada beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests salary for the Group Finance Director.
Both are required to build asat 30 June 2017 are set out in the table below.
up their shareholdings over a reasonable amount of time which would normally be five years.
Number of Actual share Shareholding shares owned Share price as Base salary as ownership requirement outright at 30 June at 1 July as % of Guidelines Name % of salary vested shares 2017 2016 base salary met Alistair Cox 200% 4,170,235 1.66 723,480 957% Yes Paul Venables 100% 2,100,035 1.66 521,628 668% Yes Shares used for the above calculation exclude those with performance conditions, i. e. those awarded under the PSP which are still within their performance period, any unexercised options, those shares subject to a period of deferral and any shares held in a private Trust where the executive director is not a Trustee.
They include vested shares where the executive directors have beneficial ownership, shares independently acquired in the market and those held by a spouse or civil partner or dependent child under the age of 18 years.
The executive directors total shareholdings, including shares subject to deferral but excluding Sharesave Options, are shown below.
Number of Value of total total vested and Value of vested and unvested Share PSP share Value of Number shares unvested shares ownership Interests owned of shares subject to shares excludes any as % of base excluding Number of outright subject to deferral excludes any shares with salary using dividends owned vested deferral holding shares with performance vested and subject to 2 2 2 outright shares holding period performance conditions unvested performance 1 Name vested shares period conditions shares conditions Alistair Cox 4,170,235 6,922,590 651,591 1,081,641 4,821,826 8,004,231 1,106% 2,760,438 Paul Venables 2,100,035 3,486,058 468,210 777,229 2,568,245 4,263,287 817% 1,990,272 1 Unvested shares will be subject to payroll deductions for tax and social security on vesting.
Number excludes dividend equivalent shares.
2 Share price as at 30 June 2017 and used in the above table was 1.66 There have been no changes to the above holdings as at the date of this Report.
The table below shows the NEDs shareholdings as at 30 June 2017 this table has been audited.
Shares held Shares held at 30 June at 30 June Non-executive director 2017 2016 Alan Thomson 250,000 250,000 Paul Harrison 8,678 8,678 Victoria Jarman 14,000 14,000 Torsten Kreindl Pippa Wicks Peter Williams 15,000 6,946 MT Rainey Note: There have been no changes to the above holdings as at the date of this Report.
Andrew Martin and Susan Murray were appointed to the Board on 12 July 2017.
They hold no shares as at the date of this Report.
82 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.5 Total Shareholder Return TSR TSR chart The graph shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares compared to the 300 FTSE 350 index.
The graph shows the total shareholder return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of 250 dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 350 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member 200 ofthis index throughout the period.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Note that following the UK Referendum to 150 leave the EU, Hays share price fell from 136.9 pence on 23 June 2016 to 97.65 pence on 30 June 2016.
100 50 0 Jun-09 Jun-10 Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16 Jun-17 FTSE 350 Hays plc Chief Executive historical remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the ChiefExecutive over the last eight years, valued using the methodology applied to the total single figure of remuneration.
The 2016 figure has been restated to take into consideration the actual share price on date of PSP vesting, as previously explained on page 78.
Chief Executive 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total Single Figure 000s 1,634 2,157 1,328 2,012 2,826 3,996 2,796 2,866 Annual bonus payment level achieved 89% 80% 37% 95% 98% 98% 65.76% 92.53% % of maximum opportunity PSP vesting level achieved 0% 50% 0% 22% 50% 100% 85.59% 59.76% % of maximum opportunity DAB match vesting level achieved N A 59% 60% N A N A N A N A N A % of maximum opportunity 2.6 Payments to past directors payment for loss of office during FY17 There were no payments made in relation to either of the above in the financial year 2017.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 83 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Section 3 Remuneration in the broader context In this section: 3.3 External appointments 3.1 Remuneration for 3.4 Relative importance employees below Board ofspend on pay 3.2 Change in Chief Executives remuneration compared to other employees 3.1 Remuneration for employees below Board Our remuneration philosophy is cascaded throughout the organisation.
Our Management Board has an annual bonus scheme that is measured against Group and Regional financial targets and personal and strategic objectives.
40% of any award is deferred into shares forthree years and subject to malus provisions.
Members of the Management Board also participate in the Performance Share Plan PSP withthe same performance conditions as the executive directors.
Employees below the Management Board receive salary and benefits which are benchmarked to the local markets and countries in which they work.
There is a strong tie of performance to reward which is recognised through annual bonuses, commission or other non-financial recognition.
Employees who hold key strategic positions or are deemed critical to the business through their performance are also offered the opportunity to participate in the Performance Share Plan with performance conditions based on Group EPS results measured over one-year.
Any shares that crystallise at the end of the performance period have a further two-year holding period prior to vesting.
During this time there is also a personal performance underpin.
In addition nine countries offer a Sharesave plan to employees.
AResolution was passed at the 2016 AGM to enable the future introduction of a US Stock Purchase Plan for employees in the USA.
As stated in our Remuneration Policy, each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the executive directors and the members of the Management Board, the Committee considers a report prepared by the Group Head of Reward detailing remuneration practice across the Group.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the remuneration policy, the Company takes account of feedback from the broader employee population on an annual basis using the engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration.
84 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The table below summarises the above.
Principles Components Operate a consistent reward Base Salary Annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP andperformance philosophy Based on skill and experience Employees who hold positions and Sharesave throughout the business.
andbenchmarked to local that influence the business Members of the Management market.
strategy and direction, or hold Board participate in the same Provide a balanced package with key roles that have a direct PSPPlan as executive directors a strong link between reward and effect on business results, have subject to Remuneration individual and Group performance.
annual bonuses based on a Committee approval.
The PSP Encourage a material, personal combination of Group, Regional issubject to Malus provisions.
stake in the business to give a and or local business targets Management Board members long-term focus on sustained and personal or strategic are encouraged to retain shares.
Below the Management Board, For members of the broadly 350 key employees each Management Board, 40% of year participate in a PSP which anybonus earned is deferred has a one-year performance into shares for three years and period and two-year holding issubject to Malus.
Financial targets are based on Group EPS results.
Nominations are reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Employees in nine countries can participate in a Sharesave scheme with the option to purchase shares after three years.
Benefits Commission Talkback Survey Benchmarked to local market Client-facing employees have An annual global employee andcan include pension, life annual bonuses based on engagement survey is assurance, health cover and personal objectives and or conducted across all Hays discounted voluntary benefits.
commission directly related to employees in all countries to personal business performance.
ascertain overall engagement, In the UK the executive directors This includes a number participate in the same plans as ofquestions relating to other UK employees.
Timeline Fixed Variable Long-term Ongoing Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 85 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 3.2 Change in Chief Executives remuneration compared to other employees The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive from 2016 to 2017 compared with the average percentage change for UK employees.
The Chief Executives remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits, excluding his allowance in lieu of pension, and annual bonus including any amount deferred.
The UK employee pay on which the average percentage change is based is calculated using the increase in the earnings of UK-based, full-time employees who are eligible for increases insalary benefits and who participate in the standard discretionary i. e. not commission based annual bonus plans employees who receive bonuses on a monthly or other time-scale basis are excluded.
It uses P11d data from tax years 2016 and 2017.
Part-time employees have been excluded from the analysis as many will have experienced material changes in pay during the period due to their change of hours.
The comparison figures are based on relevant UK employees as described above as both executive directors and most of the Management Board are UK based and this is considered to be an appropriate comparison.
% change % change % change in salary in taxable benefits in variable pay FY17 vs FY16 FY17 vs FY16 FY17 vs FY16 Chief Executive 2% 9% 44% Other relevant employees 4% 4% 21% 3.3 External appointments The Company considers that certain external appointments can help to broaden the experience and contribution to the Board of the executive directors.
Any such appointments are subject to prior agreement by the Company and must not be with competing companies.
Subject to the Companys agreement, any fees may be retained by the individual.
For the 12 months ended 30 June 2017, the fees earned and retained by the executive directors were as follows: Alistair Cox: Alistair was appointed as a non-executive director at Just Eat plc on 2 May 2017.
His annual fee is 60,000 and was pro-rated in line with service during the period.
Paul Venables: Paul holds no external appointments.
3.4 Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of the spend on pay in the 2017 financial year and the 2016 financial year compared with other disbursements.
All figures are taken from the relevant Hays Annual Report.
Disbursements Disbursements from profit in 2017 from profit in 2016 financial year financial year m m % change Profit distributed by way of dividend 108.3 41.7 160% 1 Overall spend on pay including directors 563.0 476.3 18% 1 60% of the overall increase in pay is due to the impact of movement in foreign exchange rates.
The rest of the increase is primarily due to the increase in consultant headcount and rise in commission payments in line with increase in fees.
86 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 4 Statement of implementation ofRemuneration Policy in the following financialyear In this section: 4.1 Executive directors 4.3 Voting outcome 4.2 Non-executive directors Below are the Remuneration Policy decisions for the financial year 2018.
The change to the Annual Bonus and PSP structures for FY18 are subject to shareholder approval of the proposed Remuneration Policy at the November 2017 AGM.
There have been no changes to our Remuneration Policy during FY17.
4.1 Executive directors Summary Base salary Maximum bonus potential Maximum PSP award Benefits and Position Name from 1 July 2017 as % of salary as % of salary pension CEO Alistair Cox 737,950 150% 150% No change previously 125% previously 175% CFO Paul Venables 532,061 150% 150% No change previously 125% previously 175% The salaries for the CEO and Subject to shareholder Subject to shareholder CFO were increased by 2.0%, approval at the approval at the in line with the pay review November 2017 AGM.
budget for other employees See below for See grant summary below in the UK.
Bonus performance conditions The weighting of the performance conditions remain as follows for FY18: Performance condition Weighting EPS 60% The operation of the Bonus Plan is as set out in the proposed Remuneration Policy on pages 64 to 71.
Itshould be noted that the Committee views the disclosure of the actual performance targets as Cash conversion 20% commercially sensitive.
The Committee will provide retrospective disclosure of the performance Personal 20% targetsfor the financial measures to allow shareholders to judge the bonus earned in the context Total 100% ofthe performance delivered.
The Committee believes that some of the personal objectives may continue to be commercially sensitive.
50% of any award will be deferred into shares and held for three years from the date of award and will subject to Malus conditions for the three-year holding period.
Any cash award is subject to Clawback conditions for three years from the date of award.
The Malus and Clawback provisions are: Material misstatement resulting in an adjustment to the audited accounts: Incorrect assessment of any performance conditions or award calculations due to an error or misleading information: and Fraud and Gross misconduct.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 87 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2017 PSP to be granted in FY18 vesting in 2020 Performance period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2020 Grant date 21 November 2017 Release date 21 November 2020 PSP value as % of salary for: Threshold Maximum performance performance Below Performance condition Weighting required required threshold Threshold Maximum 1 Relative TSR 20% Median of the Upper quartile of the 0 7.5% 30% comparator group comparator group 2 EPS 30% 32.21p 37.73p 0 11.25% 45% Cash conversion 50% 71% 101% 0 18.75% 75% Total 100% 0 37.50% 150% 25% of 100% of award award 1 TSR is measured against a bespoke comparator group, with vesting subject to satisfactory financial performance as determined by the Committee.
The comparator group for FY18 is: Adecco SA, Kelly Services Inc, Manpower Inc, Page Group previously Michael Page International plc, Randstad Holdings nv, Robert Half International Inc, Robert Walters plc and SThree plc.
During FY16 USG People nv was purchased by Recruit Holdings Co. Ltd and its shares delisted.
CDI Corporation has also been removed because it is no longer considered a relevant comparator.
2 The Committee took into account the following factors when setting the EPS targets for the award: Budget the setting of which is a robust and transparent process : Company budget for FY18 and the expectations for performance: Strategic direction of the business over the period covered by the PSP award: Market conditions and visibility of future trading: Analysts forecasts: Threshold and maximum ongoing growth expectations for years two and three are set around a fixed range.
3 There is a two-year holding period post vesting for any shares that vest as a result of performance conditions being met.
4 The award is subject to malus for the three-year performance period and clawback during the two-year holding period.
Shareholding requirements For FY18 and going forwards, the shareholding requirement for the CFO will increase from 100% of base salary to 200% of base salary.
Thisbrings him in line with the shareholding requirement for the CEO.
The CFO already holds above this level of shares see page 82.
4.2 Non-executive directors The Committee reviewed the Group Chairmans fee during FY17 and determined that it should increase by 2.0% for FY18.
This is in line with other increases across the Company.
The Board reviewed the fees for the other non-executive directors NEDs during FY17.
They determined that their base fee should increase by 2.0% for FY18 in line with other increases across the Company.
In addition, it was determined that the SID fee and Committee Chairman fees should increase to reflect the increasing responsibilities and time commitment of these roles.
All increases were effective from 1 July 2017.
The table below shows the changes.
Fee for Fee for FY18 FY17 Position 000s 000s Chairman 255 250 Base fee 56 55 Committee Chairman 13 12 SID 11 10 4.3 Voting outcome for the Annual Report on Remuneration FY16 at the 2016 AGM Votes Number of Votes % 96.72% Votes for 1,121,184,706 3.28% Votes against 38,040,863 Votes withheld 81,710 88 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 5 Governance In this section: 5.4 Advisers to the 5.1 Remuneration Remuneration Committee members and Committee attendees 5.5 Engagement with 5.2 Terms of reference shareholders 5.3 Meetings in FY17 5.6 Considering risk 5.7 General governance 5.1 Remuneration Committee members and attendees The table below shows the members and attendees of the Remuneration Committee during FY17.
Remuneration Committee members Position Comments Paul Harrison Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Independent Victoria Jarman Member from 1 October 2011 Independent Torsten Kreindl Member from 1 June 2013 Independent Pippa Wicks Member from 1 January 2012 Independent Peter Williams Member from 24 February 2015 Independent MT Rainey Member from 14 December 2015 Independent Susan Murray and Andrew Martin were appointed to the Board on 12 July 2017.
They will be members of the Remuneration Committee in FY18.
Remuneration Committee attendees Position Comments Alan Thomson Group Chairman and standing attendee Independent upon appointment on byinvitation 1 October 2010.
Alistair Cox Chief Executive Attends by invitation but does not participate in any discussion about his own reward.
Other executives The Group Head of Reward Attends by invitation as the executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy.
The Company Secretary Acts as Secretary to the Committee.
FIT Remuneration Consultants Committees independent advisers during FY17 Attended by invitation.
and Deloitte No person is present during any discussion relating to his or her own remuneration.
5.2 Terms of reference The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed Terms of Reference, responsibility for the remuneration policy and for determining specific packages for the executive directors, the Chairman and other senior executives.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of remuneration policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
5.3 Meetings in FY17 The Committee normally meets at least four times per year.
During FY17, it formally met five times as well as having ongoing dialogue viaemail or telephone discussion.
The meetings principally discussed the following key issues and activities: A review of the basic pay, bonus and PSP awards of the executive directors and other senior executives: Consideration of the appropriateness of the existing arrangements for the 2017 financial year: A review of the reward strategy in the context of Group risk: Consideration of the relationship between executive reward and the reward structures in place for other Group employees: A review of the Committees Terms of Reference: The selection of a new Independent Adviser: and Review of the future structure and appropriateness of the remuneration for executive directors in the light of being a cyclical business and inconsideration of the new binding vote in 2017.
This included consideration of any feedback received as a result of shareholder consultation.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 89 Governance REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 5.4 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Following the successful tender by PwC to become the Companys new Audit partner, from 1 July 2016 PwC no longer acted as the independent adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
FIT Remuneration Consultants were appointed as interim advisers for the period July 2016 to November 2016 while a formal tender was conducted.
During this period they principally assisted the Committee with compliance of the Directors Remuneration Report.
FIT adheres tothe Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
FIT provided no other advice or work to Hays during this period.
Following the results of the tender, Deloitte was appointed as the independent adviser to the Committee with effect from November 2016.
Since their appointment, Deloitte has advised the Committee on all aspects of the current remuneration policy for executive directors and members of the Management Board.
They have also assisted the Committee in its review of the Policy and the proposed changes being put forward to the binding vote at the November 2017 AGM.
Deloitte also provided advice to the Company in relation to taxation compliance work and tax advice including transfer pricing work.
This work is carried out by entirely different areas and employees within Deloitte and is not felt to be in conflict with the independence and objectivity of the work carried out for the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to Remuneration Committees.
The total fee for 2017 in relation to Committee work was 17,967 excluding VAT for FIT Remuneration Consultants and 91,450 excluding VAT for Deloitte.
While fee estimates are generally required for each piece of work and set fees have been agreed for certain regular work, fees are generally calculated based on time, with hourly rates in line with the level of expertise and seniority of the adviser concerned.
5.5 Engagement with shareholders The Committee seeks to maintain an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
During 2017 the Committee engaged with and sought feedback on its proposed Remuneration Policy from 27 of its shareholders as well as other investor bodies.
The Committee would like to thank shareholders and the institutions for their time, engagement and constructive dialogue and feedback.
The Committee is cognisant that views can differ between shareholders and in the market generally.
It has sought to put forward a Policy that recognises the increased importance being placed on executives having a long-term personal stake in the business and has introduced a two-year holding period post vesting for the PSP and increased the shareholding requirement for the CFO to align with that of the CEO.
In addition, it has sought to make modest adjustments to the structure of the incentive plans and rebalanced them while ensuring that overall quantum remains the same.
Overall, feedback received from shareholders has indicated positive support for the proposed Policy changes.
Subject to the results of the binding vote, it is the Committees expectation to operate the Policy for the next three years.
5.6 Considering risk Each year, the Committee considers the executive remuneration structure in the light of its key areas of risk.
The Committee takes into consideration whether the achievement of objectives and any payment from plans have taken into account the overall risk profile of the Company when it evaluates the executives performance.
5.7 General governance The Directors Report on Remuneration has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, the revised provisions of the Code and the Listing Rules.
By order of the Board Paul Harrison Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 30 August 2017 90 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017
