Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee The new remuneration policy is aligned to Kiers Vision2020 and will continue to incentivise management to drive the performance of the Group for the long-term benefit of shareholders.
Constance Baroudel Chair Remuneration Committee members Allocation of time New remuneration policy and Constance Baroudel Chair 2018 remuneration Justin Atkinson Adam Walker Bonuses 2016, 2017 and 2018 Kirsty Bashforth Nick Winser LTIPs vesting and performance conditions Philip Cox Governance 2016 Directors Remuneration Report, terms of Amanda Mellor retired as the Chair of the Committee on 18 November 2016.
Phil White retired as a member of the reference, appointment of Mercer Committee on 31 August 2017. and market updates short-term element: an annual bonus, which incentivises and Dear shareholder rewards the delivery of a balanced selection of financial and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors non-financial targets in a financial year, with payments being Remuneration Report for 2017. satisfied in cash 2 3, which will now be subject to clawback, This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three and shares 1 3, which are deferred for three years: and principalsections: long-term element: the LTIP incentivises financial performance over a three-year period, promoting long-term sustainable value this annual statement, which provides the context for the Committees decisionsduring the year and summarises the creation for shareholders.
Vested shares will now be subject to a two-year holding period.
keypoints from the remainder of the report: the new remuneration policy: and New remuneration policy the annual report on remuneration, which provides details of The Committee consulted with major shareholders in relation to remuneration paid to the Board during the 2017 financial year.
the proposed new remuneration policy, which is set out on pages 86 to 93 inclusive.
The policy is subject to shareholder approval Approach to remuneration at Kier every three years and, therefore, will be voted on at the Annual Our remuneration policy aims to: General Meeting on 17 November 2017.
The Committee considers that the current remuneration policy has served Kier incentivise and reward the delivery of strategy and performance: well over the last three years: shareholders will, therefore, note over two-thirdsof the Executive Directors maximum that thechanges to the existing policy are generally of an remuneration opportunity is variable and relates to the Groups evolutionary nature, with the Committee having taken into account performance against its strategic objectives as set out on recent developments in corporate governance and best practice.
pages 22 to 29 inclusive : The changes to the 2014 policy are set out in the future policy align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders: table on pages86 to 89 inclusive.
approximately half of the Executive Directors maximum remuneration opportunity is satisfied in shares and the Executive Implementation of the new remuneration policy in 2018 Directors are encouraged to build up shareholdings in the Details of the implementation of the new policy in 2018 are set out Company of at least two years base salary over a period of up in Remuneration at a glance on page84.
The Committee tofive years, promoting a culture of long-term stewardship: and consulted with shareholders with respect to both the new policy and attract and retain talent: the Committee considers practices its implementation in 2018.
Asummary of the Executive Directors incomparable businesses so as to ensure that remuneration remuneration in 2018 is: atKier remains competitive, enabling it to attract and retain Base salaries talented individuals, but without paying more than is necessary.
The Executive Directors other than the Chief Executive received a Remuneration framework 3% increase in base salary with effect from 1 July 2017, in line There are three elements to the framework for the Executive with the average increases awarded to employees.
The Chief Directors remuneration: Executive received a 5% increase in base salary, in line with the increases awarded to high performers and reflecting his fixed element: comprises base salary, taxable benefits progression in the role, leading a business of increasing scale and privatehealth insurance and a company car or car allowance complexity, and the Groups good performance in challenging and a pension: market conditions.
The Committee is satisfied that the Executive Directors base salaries are in line with the median of those paid at peer group companies.
82 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements When setting salaries, the Committee takes into account a Remuneration outcomes in 2017 number of factors, including the nature of the role and its Annual bonus evolution, an individuals performance, the external environment The 2017 bonus targets related to: profit before tax 50%, the Groups including shareholder feedback, an individuals total year-endnet debt position 40% and health and safety targets 10%.
remuneration and the average salary increases awarded to the Although the Groups profit before tax 126.1m exceeded the Groups employees and how these are distributed.
threshold for a bonus payment, the Committee took into account the level of non-underlying items incurred during the year and Annual bonus decided that there would be no payment with respect to this The maximum bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive will be element of the bonus.
125%, with 115% for the other Executive Directors an increase from 100% in 2017.
The Committee considers these The Groups year-end net debt of 110m represented a strong opportunities to be in line with those at peer group companies.
So as to ensure that the year-end net debt figure was representative of the Groups overall net debt position, the So that the increased bonus opportunities further incentivise Committee took into account the Groups average month-end net thedelivery of Vision 2020, on-target bonus payments as a debt positionrelative to the average month-end aggregate capital percentage of salary for the Executive Directors other than the invested in the Property and Residential divisions and, having Chief Executive will remain unchanged from those which applied done so, was satisfied that a 40% payment for this element of the in the 2017 financial year.
Reflecting his higher bonus opportunity, bonus was appropriate.
the on target payment for the Chief Executive as a percentage of salary will increase by 6%.
During the year, the Groups UK AAIR reduced by 16%, resulting in a 4% to 8% payment for the Executive Directors depending on the The bonus targets will relate to: profit before tax 50%, the number of site visits undertaken.
Groups year-end net debt position 30%, safety targets 10% andpersonal objectives 10%.
LTIPs The performance period for the 2015 LTIP awards ended on When assessing the profit before tax element of the bonus, 30 June 2017.
These awards will vest as to 29%.
Please see theCommittee will take into account any non-underlying items page 95 for further information.
When assessing the net debt element, theCommittee will take into account its key target of average Remuneration across the Group month-end net debt being less than the average month-end capital In determining the Executive Directors remuneration, the invested in the Property and Residential divisions.
Committee takes into account general trends in remuneration across the Group as a whole.
The Committee seeks to ensure The safety element of the bonus will require a reduction in the that the underlying principles which support its decisions on the Groups AAIR during the year.
The Committee will also take into Executive Directors remuneration are consistent with those account any material incidents which mayoccur during the year.
whichrelate to decisions on the pay of the wider workforce.
Thepersonal objectives element of the bonuswill relate to Inpractice, the Executive Directors remuneration is more heavily matters including customer satisfaction, operational efficiency, risk weighted towards variable pay and, therefore, is linked to the management, innovation and employee engagement.
Groups performance than the pay of other employees which is principally driven by market comparators and individual experience Further details of the specific targets, together with performance and performance.
against them, will be included in the 2018 Annual Report.
Conclusion LTIP awards The Committee recognises that executive remuneration in general The Executive Directors will continue to receive an award of continues to be an area of focus for shareholders and other 150%of their base salary in 2018 the same level as in 2017. stakeholders.
When setting the Executive Directors 2018 The performance conditions will again relate to EPS 50%, TSR remuneration, the Committee took into account shareholders 25% and netdebt : EBITDA 25%, over the three-year period feedback and is satisfied that, overall, the link between pay and ending 30 June 2020. performance remains strong, the interests of the Executive There will be three changes to the performance conditions for the Directors and shareholders have been further aligned for 2017 awards, as follows: example, via the new holding period for vested LTIP shares and the Executive Directors remuneration remains competitive.
the use of a bespoke group of listed companies against which to compare the Groups TSR performance, as set out on page The Committee will continue to monitor developments in executive 100.
These companies were selected because they compete remuneration and engage with shareholders to ensure that Kiers with the Group across the range of services that it provides: leadership team is appropriately incentivised to continue to deliver growth and the Groups long-term strategy.
as a result ofan increased correlation with the new comparator group, areduction in the full-vesting requirement for the TSR I will be available to answer any questions you may have about the element from a 12% to a 10% per annum outperformance.
The Committee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on Committee considers that the revised requirement is of 17 November 2017. equivalent difficulty to the existing performance condition, requiring upper quartile performance: and a reduction in the full-vesting requirement for the EPS performance condition from 15% to 13% per annum growth, which remains in line with the median  Constance Baroudel within the FTSE 250.
The Committee considers that the revised Chair of the Remuneration Committee EPS target remainsstretching, when assessed against a 20 September 2017 number of internal and external reference points.
Other changes In 2018, the Committee will introduce: a two-year holding period for vested LTIP shares: and recovery provisions in both the holding period and the cash element of the annual bonus alongside existing malus provisions.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 83
