Directors remuneration report This has also been a strong year of delivery on our growth strategy, Annual statement from the Chairman 2017 with continued good progress against our priorities, expansion into new markets with the successful launch of Sky Mobile in the UK, and the roll out across our European businesses of our NOW TV, Sky AdSmart and Sky Store platforms.
We strengthened our content offering with new Sky Originals, entered a major co-production agreement with HBO, launched key channels including Sky 1 in Germany, and secured renewals with partner channels and exclusive rights to UEFA Champions League matches in Germany and Italy.
We also launched Sky Pro in Germany, voice search and UHD for Sky Q in the UK, and introduced a new Digital Service for customers, centred on the My Sky App, also in the UK.
Dear Shareholder Finally we have successfully completed the integration of the three Sky On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration businesses and achieved our 200 million synergy run-rate target six Report for the year ended 30 June 2017.
The Committee paused its ongoing months early.
review of the Remuneration Policy following the announcement of the Offer Taken together it has been a period of significant progress and from 21st Century Fox in December 2016, and will present the current policy achievement.
As the Offer process is continuing longer than anticipated we will be re-engaging with our shareholders and should the Pay for performance outcomes Offer not proceed we will present a new policy for approval at the 2018 The fundamentals of our existing remuneration policy remain sound AGM.
I set out the rationale for this decision below.
and continue to serve our executive directors, senior managers and shareholders well during this period, as they have done over the past Context and Business Performance eight years.
There is a clear focus on linking pay outcomes directly to The Committee believes that the current remuneration structure has the achievement of the stretching performance targets which are served the business well and has contributed to sustained long-term the key drivers of our performance.
Over the past five years revenue has increased The existing policy has helped to deliver strong returns for our shareholders.
by 29% and our shareholders have seen Earnings Per Share and dividends Over the past eight years cumulative Total Shareholder Return TSR growth growth of 25% and 32% respectively.
was 185% compared to 127% for the FTSE 100.
This is a vesting year for This has been a year of robust performance against our key drivers our Long Term Incentive Plan and the Co-Investment Plan, and over the of performance: performance period 20142017 we have seen TSR of 20.2% versus the FTSE Revenue grew by 1 billion, the highest level in the Companys history, 100 at 19.4%.
EPS growth of 6.2% per annum over this period is just slightly 1 to 12,916 million, up 10% or 5% excluding the benefit of currency.
below the stretch target set for both the LTIP and Co-Investment Plan.
This is sector-leading and the fifth consecutive year of growth at Taking account of this strong performance overall the Committee agreed or above 5%.
Achievement was slightly below stretch target due the following pay outcomes: to headwinds in the UK advertising market and post-Brexit pressure Base salaries for the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO were increased on the consumer environment by 2.5% on 1 July 2017, which is in line with increases for our employees.
Added almost 700,000 new customers, increasing total customer In total, the business achieved 95% of its operational stretch targets.
base to 22.5 million However the Committee used its discretion to pay the Executive 2.7 million new paid-for products, taking our total base to almost Directors and other senior leaders no more than 93% of the maximum 60 million for their annual bonus for 2017.
1 Operating profit of 1,483 million, ahead of stretch target and including Matching shares under the 2014 Co-Investment Plan vested at 1.3 times the uplift in Premier League rights costs, biennial Ryder Cup costs and out of a maximum opportunity of 1.5, or 87%.
the costs of launching Sky Mobile in the UK The Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted in 2014 and 2015 for the 1 Operating cash flow of 1,221 million, ahead of stretch target due performance period 20142017 vested at 100% due to outperformance 1 to working capital improvements across the Group on revenue growth and operating cash flow over the period.
Awards 1 EPS of 62.1p with a growth rate of 6.2% per annum over the past only vest every two years, with the previous vesting in 2015.
Total three years remuneration should therefore be considered as a two-year cycle, rather than comparing year on year.
1 This is an adjusted measure and a reconciliation between statutory and adjusted measures can be found on page 141.
Performance is measured on an adjusted basis, using methodology agreed by the Remuneration Committee, which may differ from the adjusted measures presented elsewhere in this report.
This is consistent with the relevant metrics throughout the Remuneration report.
