Governance Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy Due to the 21st Century Fox Offer the proposed Remuneration Policy is presented with no material changes from the version that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
This section describes the Directors Remuneration Policy which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee intends that this policy will take effect from that date.
Should the 21st Century Fox Offer be withdrawn or lapse in sufficient time prior to the 2018 AGM the Committee intends that the Policy will be effective until the 2018 AGM, at which point a new Policy will be proposed for shareholder approval.
Remuneration Principles Five key principles underpin the remuneration policy for our Executive Directors: Our approach to executive pay is aligned to the interests of our shareholders.
We reward our people fairly and competitively to attract, motivate and retain the skills we need to deliver significant growth.
The level of base pay is decided in the same way as for all employees, based on individual performance and experience, the size and scope of the role and taking account of total remuneration.
The majority of executive pay is tied to the achievement of stretching performance goals linked to the strategic priorities for the business.
Executive Directors will be well rewarded only if they meet or exceed the maximum performance standards set and achieve stretching levels of performance.
We take care to ensure that remuneration does not inadvertently encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Our principles set the foundation for our remuneration policy and ensure that decisions made by the Committee are consistent and appropriate in the context of business priorities, shareholder interests and employee pay.
Summary of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy The table below shows how our remuneration policy links to our business strategy and its terms of operation.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Any increase will be in line with Individual and business Base salary Attracts and retains Reviewed annually, typically with effect those provided to employees performance is taken into Executive Directors taking from 1 July.
account when reviewing account of personal Salary is set relatively low versus the salaries.
contribution and size Higher increases may be made peer group of companies of similar of role.
as a result of a change in role market capitalisation to the Company.
or responsibility or other The Committee looks at pay practices performance-based in selected international media circumstance.
This is in line with our policy Decisions on salary also take into for all employees.
account the performance and experience of the individual, changes in the size and scope of the role, and the level of salary awards across the business.
Pension Provides opportunity for Executive Directors may receive Employer contributions to the N A longer-term saving and or employer contributions into the Sky pension scheme or an equivalent retirement provision.
Pension Scheme, a cash supplement cash supplement are capped at in lieu of pension, or a combination around 16% of base salary.
All payments are made as a percentage of base salary.
Annual Report 2017 53 Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Other Provides Executive Executive Directors are entitled to a Benefits provided to Executive N A benefits Directors with a range of range of benefits including, but not Directors are broadly in line with core and fringe benefits as limited to, private medical insurance, those offered to all employees.
part of a competitive total life assurance, ill health income Where exceptions are made, the remuneration package.
protection, paid holiday, sick pay, Sky Committee ensures that subscription package, company car benefits offered are in line with allowance and use of a company car market practice for similar roles generally for business travel purposes.
The Committee may make minor changes to benefits, or include other benefits that are deemed appropriate from time to time.
Relocation allowances and benefits may be provided where needed to assist with the relocation or international transfer of an Executive Director and their dependents.
Annual Drives and rewards the Performance measures and weightings The maximum bonus Performance is assessed bonus delivery of stretching are reviewed at the start of each year opportunity is 200% of base against a combination of annual performance to take account of current business salary, and is payable for operational and financial goals aligned with the plans.
Stretching performance targets the achievement of stretch objectives which are Companys overall are set annually.
determined at the start business strategy.
Performance against targets is The minimum payment is zero.
monitored quarterly and determined The weighting of the The Committee believes the annually based on assessment of measures is determined concept of threshold, target and performance versus each target.
maximum compromises our drive Each measure will have a Payment is made only once annual for growth so we set one clear maximum weighting of 40%.
and ambitious stretch target for each performance measure Further details are disclosed In exceptional circumstances the every year.
The achievement in the notes to the policy Committee will use its judgement to of stretch goals will result in table and the Annual adjust bonus outcomes up or down a payout at maximum or Remuneration to ensure alignment of pay with near-maximum.
The Committee Implementation Report performance and with shareholder exercises its judgement on on page 60. interests, within the policy maximum.
the level of bonus payable for Awards are subject to clawback for outcomes short of maximum.
a period of two years after payment in cases of gross misconduct and misstatement of results.
CoEncourages personal Executive Directors may invest up The maximum annual award is The performance measure to Investment investment and to half of their earned annual bonus 150% of base salary.
determine the vesting of the Plan CIP shareholder alignment: in the Companys shares.
shares is chosen each year No matching awards are capable rewards long-term focus and is typically a financial These investment shares are matched of vesting if performance is and performance measure such as EPS growth.
on a gross basis and vest based on below threshold: a 1 for 1 match achievement.
may vest when the minimum of Further details on the Shares are matched by up to 1.5 shares the range is met and all the performance criteria for for every 1 share invested in line with shares vest or 1.5 shares for threshold and maximum performance.
every share invested when the vesting are disclosed in maximum of the range is met.
the Annual Remuneration Once vested, participants may exercise Implementation Report the awards during a five-year period.
Matching share awards are subject to clawback for a period of two years after vesting in cases of gross misconduct and misstatement of results.
Participation in the plan is voluntary.
54 Sky plc Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Long Term Rewards longer-term Awards are made annually, under the The Committee reviews the Performance measures are Incentive value creation and aligns terms of the scheme rules, based on number of shares to be granted typically a mix of operational Plan LTIP Executive Directors number of shares.
A typical award for the measures and relative TSR.
interests with those award from increasing automatically Group CEO is 600,000 shares Operational measures used of shareholders.
in the past have included EPS, Vesting of awards is based on The maximum award level is operating cash flow and stretching performance over a 900,000 shares in any 12-month revenue growth.
Such awards will only The weighting of the measures in Year 1 and Year 2 with vesting be made in exceptional may vary but is typically 70% of both awards at the end of Year 3. circumstances.
operational measures and This means that vesting of awards 100% of the shares vest when 30% relative TSR.
occurs every other year, with zero the performance criteria are vesting in between.
Following the announcement met in full.
If the minimum of of the 21st Century Fox Offer, Once vested, participants may exercise the range is met each year the Committee removed relative the awards during a five-year period.
for all measures, 26% of the TSR as a performance measure shares vest.
In instances of gross misconduct for awards due to vest on all unvested LTIP awards lapse 27 July 2017. immediately.
Awards are also subject to clawback for a period of two years after vesting in cases of gross misconduct and misstatement of results.
The Committee may use its discretion after having taken independent advice to withhold or vary downwards any unvested awards typically in the event of: the material restatement of the Companys audited results: or actions attributable to participants resulting in material reputational damage to the business The Committee will determine how to apply this sanction on a case-bycase basis.
Around 690 employees are eligible for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
A smaller number of employees around 130 are also invited to participate in the Co-Investment Plan.
All employees are eligible to receive a comprehensive benefits package and the majority are eligible to receive either a monthly or quarterly cash incentive or an annual bonus.
Annual Report 2017 55 Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy continued Shareholder alignment focus on the longer term.
The performance ranges for each measure are The Committee considers shareholders views as they are received during reviewed annually in the light of the Companys three-year plan, brokers the year, at the AGM, through shareholder meetings and through forecasts and historical performance.
Performance at the top end of the correspondence.
We engaged with our major shareholders to solicit their range is stretching.
views as part of the review of our current remuneration policy.
Following the Pay scenario analysis announcement of the 21st Century Fox Offer we informed shareholders of The charts below provide an estimate of the awards that could be received our intention to put the review on hold until the outcome of the Offer was by our Executive Directors under the remuneration policy for 2017 18 known.
If the Offer does not complete prior to the 2017 AGM we will put showing: forward the current policy for renewal, with a firm commitment to complete Minimum: base salary as at 1 July 2017, plus pension and benefits the review process should the Offer fail to complete.
A new policy would as per the table on page 64 fixed pay be put forward for approval at the 2018 AGM should the Offer be withdrawn or lapse in sufficient time prior to the 2018 AGM.
Maximum: fixed pay plus maximum awards for annual bonus 200% of base salary for the Group CEO and 150% for the Group COO & CFO, We continue to welcome feedback from our shareholders at any time.
Co-Investment Plan maximum deferral of 50% of the annual bonus into The context for setting executive remuneration policy investment shares and full vesting of 1.5x matching shares and Long The principles underlying our existing executive remuneration policy are Term Incentive Plan 600,000 shares for the Group CEO and 350,000 aligned to those that underpin reward for our employees as a whole which shares for the Group COO & CFO aim to attract, motivate and retain people by offering a market-competitive The Committee sets one clear and ambitious stretch target for each total remuneration package.
The Committee takes into consideration the performance measure.
If stretch targets are met then 100% of maximum for pay and conditions of all employees when determining the remuneration for the bonus is paid and the shares awarded under the LTIP and CIP will vest in the Executive Directors.
It does not consult with employees in this process.
There is no additional payment for achievement over the stretch goals.
Our performance measures and how they operate Awards under the LTIP are made annually but vesting occurs only every two Executive pay remains firmly tied to the achievement of stretching years.
The impact of this vesting cycle on actual realised pay is shown in the performance goals linked to business strategy.
The measures we use are eight-year single figure remuneration table for the Group CEO on page 65. based on specific areas that drive growth and returns to shareholders.
We believe the concept of a threshold, target and maximum formula would Jeremy Darroch, Group CEO compromise our drive for growth so we set one clear and ambitious stretch target for each performance measure every year.
Long Term Incentive Plan Co-Investment Plan Annual bonus Annual Bonus Fixed Pay Minimum 100% 1.24m The performance measures for the annual bonus are determined by the committee based on the business priorities for the year.
They are typically a mix of operational and financial performance measures.
The measures are Maximum 11% 20% 15% 54% 10.9m usually a combination of operating profit, operating cash flow, and revenue 0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 11.0 growth.
They are all key indicators of the underlying performance of the business.
Each year stretch objectives are set in the light of the Companys m annual business plan and the operating environment.
Co-Investment Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan Andrew Griffith, Group COO & CFO Performance measures for the LTIP and CIP are reviewed annually to ensure Long Term Incentive Plan alignment with the Companys strategy and shareholders interests.
Co-Investment Plan Annual Bonus The CIP measure is typically compound EPS growth in excess of RPI Fixed Pay 0.8m Minimum 100% over the performance period, which ensures close alignment with our shareholders interests.
Performance required for threshold and maximum vesting are described in the Annual Remuneration Implementation Maximum 13% 17% 13% 57% 6.0m Report on pages 60 to 63.
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 11.0 The LTIP measures are typically a mix of operational measures and relative m TSR performance, with a 70 30 split.
The operational measures are usually EPS growth, operating cash flow and revenue growth.
As the conversion of Scenarios are modelled assuming a share price of 9.83 which is the profit to cash flow is a key indicator of the underlying performance of the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2017 with no business it is used as a measure in both the annual bonus and the LTIP.
allowance for share price appreciation.
Following the announcement of the 21st Century Fox Offer the Committee Other share schemes removed the relative TSR performance metric from awards due to vest in Management Long Term Incentive Plan MLTIP July 2017 on the basis that TSR would no longer be a fair measure of the The Company also operates a MLTIP for selected employees excluding the Companys performance due to the distortive impact of the Offer on the Executive Directors and senior executives who participate in the LTIP.
Further details may be found in the implementation report Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the Group CEO, on page 61. within the parameters agreed by the Committee.
The MLTIP mirrors the LTIP Our LTIP vesting cycle is atypical and has served the business and in design in order to ensure alignment between participants in either plan.
shareholders well since it was introduced in 2005.
Vesting occurs only every other year and as a consequence the amount of remuneration delivered to Executive Directors will spike every other year.
This approach encourages 56 Sky plc Governance Sharesave Scheme Typically base salary on appointment will take into account individual The Sharesave Scheme is open to our employees in UK, Ireland, Austria, experience, the size and scope of the role, total remuneration and relevant Germany and Italy and encourages them to make a long-term investment market pay levels.
Where the initial base salary is set below competitive in the Companys shares in a tax efficient way where possible under local levels, for example to account for someone who may be newly promoted legislation.
The current legislation provides for employees to save up to to the Board, the Committee will realign salary in the years following 500 per month.
Currently the limit for Sky employees in the UK is 250 per appointment, assuming the required level of personal performance month although the Company may decide to adjust this amount in future.
The Committee will disclose its intention to do this at the time Options are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the of appointment.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% Other elements of remuneration will be set in line with our policy unless of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the specific circumstances dictate otherwise.
For example, it may be necessary date of invitation or the average of the three days preceding the date of to use different performance measures initially for the annual bonus taking invitation.
It is the policy of the Company to invite employees to participate into account the time of joining in the financial year and responsibilities in the scheme following the announcement of the year end results.
Currently, approximately 12,200 employees participate in these schemes.
The Committee may offer one-off cash and or share-based elements in Under the terms of the 21st Century Fox Offer all existing schemes would addition to the standard remuneration package.
These will only be offered cease on the date on which the Offer completes and employees would be where it considers these to be imperative to attracting the best external able to exercise their options over the following six months.
Employees candidate in order to compensate for elements of pay such as forfeited would also receive a taxable cash payment equivalent to the loss in the bonus entitlements and or unvested long-term incentive awards from gain they could have made had the scheme run through its normal course.
Any buy-out of unvested share awards would aim to match as far as possible the vesting terms and the expected value Shareholding guidelines and share ownership of the awards being bought out.
This provision may also include payment The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors for any benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances previously provided and shareholders interests through executives building up a significant to the individual.
The shareholding requirements are 3x base salary for the Group CEO and 2x base salary for the Group COO & CFO.
The Committee may also provide appropriate levels of relocation assistance New Executive Directors are required to build up their shareholding to and payments to external or internal appointees who are required to the required levels within five years.
There are no shareholding guidelines relocate either within, or to, the UK on taking up the role.
for Independent Non-Executive Directors but they are able to participate Where an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, any outstanding in a monthly share purchase plan.
See page 67 for further details on variable pay award or benefits provided in relation to the previous role may Directors interests.
be paid or delivered according to the rules of the plan and may be adjusted How the Remuneration Committee exercises discretion to take into account the new role.
The Committee may also make an LTIP The Committee retains discretion relating to annual bonus, LTIP and CIP award on appointment outside the annual cycle, under existing shareholder in line with their rules and according to the remuneration policy.
The value of such an award will not exceed our normal policy maximum.
These include but are not limited to: The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed Executive Timing of a grant of an award payment Director will be disclosed in line with our regulatory obligations.
Size of an award bonus payment up to the maximums indicated Key terms of new and existing service contracts in the policy table The Committees policy for the Executive Directors service contracts Determination of vesting and the application of clawback for the annual is provided below.
bonus, CIP and LTIP, and malus for the bonus and LTIP Notice Up to one years notice for either party and a one year Dealing with a change of control period non-compete provision.
The Company may require the Determination of treatment of leavers based on the rules of the individual to continue to fulfil current duties or may assign plan and the leaver policy garden leave.
Annual review of performance measures and weighting and targets Payment in One years salary plus an amount equal to the benefits of the plan from year to year lieu of and a pro-rata bonus for the period up to the termination notice date.
No bonus is payable for the duration of the notice Any use of discretion within the policy framework will be explained in the period unless that period is worked.
There may be exceptional circumstances under which the Committee may use discretion or Jeremy Darrochs initial service contract on appointment as CFO judgement in the interests of the business and shareholders.
The contract was revised on 7 December exceptional circumstances may be the subject of discussion with the 2007 when he became CEO.
Andrew Griffiths service contract was revised Companys major shareholders.
on 7 April 2008 when he was appointed CFO.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection during normal Remuneration on recruitment or appointment to the Board business hours at the Companys registered office on any business day It is expected that the remuneration package for a new Executive Director and will be available at the place where the AGM is held from 15 minutes will be agreed in line with the approved remuneration policy at the time prior to, and during the meeting.
The Committee would seek approval from its major shareholders if it felt it necessary to pay more to attract the best candidate.
The last time an executive appointment was made, the Committee approved a total remuneration package lower than the previous incumbent.
Annual Report 2017 57 Directors remuneration report Our remuneration policy continued Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment in place and are subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
These letters provide that no compensation is payable on termination other than accrued fees and expenses.
The dates of these letters of appointment are detailed below: Date of Letter of Appointment Chase Carey 30 January 2013 Tracy Clarke 11 June 2012 Martin Gilbert 29 November 2011 Adine Grate 17 July 2013 James Murdoch 7 December 2007 John Nallen 4 November 2015 Matthieu Pigasse 29 November 2011 Andy Sukawaty 1 June 2013 Katrin Wehr-Seiter 13 October 2016 Payments on termination and loss of office The Companys termination policy is shaped by the key principles that: contractual terms will be adhered to: and the circumstances of the termination will be taken into account.
Executive Directors service contracts continue until the agreed retirement date or other date as the Company may agree and are terminable on no more than one years notice.
The Company may terminate an Executive Directors service contract by way of payment in lieu of notice, by continuing employment for the duration of the notice period, and or by assigning a period of garden leave.
The current Executive Directors service contracts also contain a non-compete provision of one year from the date of termination of the agreement.
Termination for cause and without cause: treatment of salary, bonus and benefits In the event of termination for cause, salary and benefits would be payable only up to the date of termination.
No bonus would be payable.
In the event of termination without cause the Executive Director would receive one years salary, an amount equal to the value of the benefits he would have been eligible to receive for one year, and a pro-rated bonus for the period from the start of the financial year up to the date of termination.
No bonus would be payable for the years notice period.
Treatment of share plans on termination Executive Directors entitlements to remuneration under the shareholder-approved share plans upon termination are summarised in the table below: Plan Reasons such as death, redundancy, retirement, ill health, injury and Other leaver reasons such as resignation disability, employing company ceasing to be part of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee LTIP LTIP awards will not normally be exercisable until the normal All unvested shares will usually lapse on the date of leaving.
vesting date, subject to the performance conditions being However, the Committee has the discretion under the plan met.
Award vesting will be pro-rated according to the portion rules to determine whether a proportion of the shares may of the performance period served unless the Committee vest having taken into account any exceptional circumstances.
Awards may be exercised early in certain circumstances for example, in the event of death or a takeover, or change in control.
CIP Any investment shares held on behalf of the participant may Investment shares may be sold.
Any matching award will be forfeited.
Any matching awards held under the CIP will vest However, the Committee has the discretion to determine whether a on the same terms as outlined above in relation to the LTIP.
proportion of the matching award may vest having taken into account any exceptional circumstances.
Sharesave Options may become exercisable within 6 months, alternatively the Options will lapse and the participant may only withdraw savings participant may choose to withdraw savings.
accrued under the savings contract.
The share plan rules do not refer to for cause or without cause.
Termination for cause would normally be dealt with under Other leaver reasons.
Termination without cause would be dealt with as any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
It is the Companys policy to use its judgement when approving payments to departing Executive Directors within the provision of the plan rules.
The Committee will take into account factors such as the circumstances and timing of the exit, the performance of the Executive Director while in office and the interests of shareholders.
External appointments External appointments for Executive Directors are considered by the Companys Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be retained by the individual.
Jeremy Darroch became a Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc in February 2014, and serves as Chairman of their Audit Committee, a member of the Nomination Committee and as Senior Independent Director from 1 July 2017.
For the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017, Jeremy earned 112,084 in this role.
Andrew Griffith became Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc in March 2014 and since April 2017 has been serving as Interim Chairman.
He also Chairs the Audit Committee and is a member of their Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
For the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017, Andrew earned 72,500 in this role.
