Governance Remuneration report We believe that this type of structure is different the application of stretching performance Remuneration Committee from most other major UK listed companies as conditions applied to elements of deferred I am pleased to present the Remuneration there is no complicated LTIP, it is consistent restricted shares in 2010 and 2011 have resulted report for the year ending 30 June 2017.
This throughout the Company which is critical to in 10,500,000 of awards lapsing with no value years report is split into three sections: an at a develop a strong, team-based corporate culture, in 2015 and 2016.
The impact of our approach to glance summary, which includes details of this it is heavily focused on variable compensation variable remuneration for the CEO, who has been years remuneration outcomes for the CEO and which is paid only for genuine performance, in his role for sufficient time to demonstrate GFD and highlights of the proposed policy: the and it is designed to align all employees with variable pay outcomes through market cycles, proposed Directors remuneration policy: and shareholders through equity ownership.
can be seen in the chart on page 58. finally the Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the current policy has been applied Approximately 50% of outstanding shares are Over a number of years, the Group has continued during the year and which will be subject to an owned by 164 employees, 87% of those that to receive support from shareholders for its advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting.
are eligible, and who average six years of service.
Remuneration Policy and it is recognised that the Employee shareholders have voted for and Policy has delivered appropriate outcomes over Ashmore Group plcs Directors remuneration continue to support, the Remuneration Policy a long period of time.
The core features of the policy the Remuneration Policy, the Policy will be since establishment in 1992.
This emphasises Policy, such as long-dated equity deferral, were subject to a triennial binding vote by shareholders the strong equity-ownership culture that prevails established prior to Ashmores listing in 2006, at this years Annual General Meeting in October.
at Ashmore, and also ensures effective alignment and have subsequently been reflected in The Groups Remuneration Committee the with external shareholders.
established market practices or financial services Committee, has been reviewing all aspects of the industry regulation.
The significant deferral of Remuneration Policy over the last few months in Hence, it can be seen that this Policy has worked equity awards under the Groups remuneration the light of regulatory and other developments for the benefit of all shareholders over a long policy meant that it was able to comply easily since the last binding shareholder vote in 2014. period of time in both private and 11 years of with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers I, along with the Board Chairman and other senior public ownership.
Directive and it is already consistent with the Ashmore employees, have spent time meeting publicly-stated position on the subject of a number There are some features of the Remuneration with our larger shareholders to understand their of institutional investors.
Interestingly, emerging Policy, however, that are now less common in the views on our existing Remuneration Policy and governance guidance is recommending that all UK market, such as the opportunity for employees practices.
In particular, the Committee and the major companies move away from the use of to receive matching shares, and the fact that the Board have been focused on whether Ashmores LTIPs towards a model similar to that which cap on pay is at the Group level and not at the remuneration approach is still aligned with the Ashmore has always had in place, as LTIPs have individual employee level, but these should be long-term strategy of the business.
not tended to work in the best long-term interest regarded in the context of the Groups distinctive Remuneration Policy structure of the business.
business model and the Boards desire to foster We believe the current Remuneration Policy an equity ownership culture with all of the positive The Remuneration Committee and Board believe has served clients, employees and shareholders outcomes that this can deliver for clients that the Policy to be put to a binding vote at this extremely well and therefore we are not and shareholders.
years AGM will continue to serve the Company, proposing any significant changes.
The its clients and its shareholders well and would Reflecting performance in Remuneration Policy is deliberately simple and welcome your support for the 2017 Directors remuneration the principles supporting it are applied across Remuneration Policy, highlights of which can all of the Groups employees in order to instil Most importantly, though, the remuneration be found in the at a glance section overleaf.
a common equity ownership culture based on structure is designed to support and fit with the pay for performance.
The key principles are: long-term strategy of the business.
The Group Simon Fraser operates in a growth sector which experiences Remuneration Committee Chairman A consistent remuneration structure for all market cycles and the remuneration policy plays employees, not just Executive Directors.
a key role in minimising fixed costs, providing Activities A low cap on fixed salaries, currently 100,000 flexibility in variable costs, enabling key staff The members of the Remuneration Committee for Executive Directors, and variable awards retention, and thereby aligning the interests of have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, that genuinely reflect performance.
clients, shareholders and employees through independence and knowledge of the Company to Simplicity, with a single profit-derived bonus market cycles.
This is the key driver of the enable them to discharge their respective duties pool for all employees and no separate LTIP structure of our remuneration policy rather than and responsibilities effectively, and met six times for Executive Directors.
a sector benchmarking exercise or short-term during the year.
A cap on the aggregate variable compensation During the year under review, the Remuneration pool for all employees, including executives, During the period of recent under performance Committee comprised the following Noncurrently at 25% of earnings before variable of emerging market assets, our approach resulted executive Directors and was fully compliant compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
in Executive Director variable compensation at with the Code: Long-term deferral with a five-year cliff vest award value falling from 12 million in 2011 to of a substantial proportion of variable awards.
2.9 million in 2016, reflecting the 30% fall in our Simon Fraser Chairman Additional performance conditions for Executive revenues and 32% decline in diluted earnings David Bennett Directors that put a significant proportion of per share.
Over the same period, dividends to Peter Gibbs shareholders actually grew by 15%.
This is their total pay at risk.
Dame Anne Pringle demonstrated in the chart on page 58, which Strong alignment of interests with shareholders shows that as revenues have fluctuated through All members of the Remuneration Committee and clients through significant employee the market cycle, the remuneration policy has have served on the Committee throughout equity ownership.
provided significant cost flexibility and therefore the year.
has protected returns to shareholders.
In addition AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 5 5 5 5 Remuneration report continued At a glance For ease of reference, the main features of the proposed Remuneration Policy, which is provided in full on pages 59 to 63, and The Group Finance Directors remuneration outcomes which will be put to a binding vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM are The Group Finance Directors total annual bonus comprising cash and share shown on the following pages.
Below is a summary of this years awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he may choose remuneration outcomes, which have been delivered under the current to make, increased from 750,000 FY 2015 16 to 950,000.
Should the Group Policy, approved in 2014.
Finance Director voluntarily elect to commute the maximum of 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result receive a matching share award, his maximum annual Performance for the year ending 30 June 2017 bonus will be 1,235,000, as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately Performance in relation to the Groups KPIs and the short term to be received by the Group Finance Director will be dependent on achievement performance measures by which the Executive Directors are relative to the performance conditions, which means that 332,500 of this sum assessed, has been positive through the period.
Particular may not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2022. highlights include: 12% increase in AuM to Continued strong investment US$58.7bn: performance over 1, 3 and 5 years: Annual cash bonus 21% Improved adjusted EBITDA 31% increase in diluted EPS to Annual bonus deferred margin of 65%: 23.7p per share: into equity 52% 23% increase in profit Continued focus on cost control Annual bonus deferred into equity, with additional before tax performance conditions 27% Further detail can be found in Figure 5 of the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 65.
Details of any elections made to commute cash bonus and related The Chief Executives remuneration outcomes awards of matching shares will be provided in the Remuneration The Chief Executives total annual bonus comprising cash and share report for the year in which the awards are made, as will the vesting awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he outcome of the awards made in 2012 due to vest on 18 September may choose to make, increased from 1,500,000 FY 2015 16 to 2017.
As has been the case in previous years, base salaries for 4,000,000.
Should the Chief Executive voluntarily elect to commute Executive Directors have remained unchanged at 100,000, a level the maximum 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result receive a significantly below fixed pay levels for equivalent positions at peer matching share award, his maximum annual bonus will be 5,200,000 organisations, consistent with the Companys management of its as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately to be received fixed cost base and strong belief in pay for performance.
by the Chief Executive will be dependent on achievement relative to Regulatory considerations for the year ending the performance conditions, which means that up to 1,400,000 of 30 June 2017 this sum may not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2022.
For remuneration relating to the year ending 30 June 2017, the Restricted and restricted matching shares awarded to the Chief Remuneration Committee has again ensured that pay will be delivered Executive in 2010, vesting in 2015 and 2011, vesting in 2016 with to Executive Directors and other employees categorised by the FCA respective grant values of 4,900,000 and 5,600,000 lapsed in full as as identified staff, consistent with the requirements of the Alternative a result of the application of the stretching performance conditions.
This has meant that Executive Directors and other relevant employees will receive a proportion of their upfront or cash bonus delivered as a further award of restricted Annual cash bonus 14% shares which are retained and restricted from sale for a six-month Annual bonus deferred into equity 48% period, rather than as cash.
Further details of this can be found in Annual bonus deferred into the Annual Report on Remuneration.
equity, with additional performance conditions 25% Annual bonus waived to Consideration of malus and clawback for the year charity or for the general ending 30 June 2017 benefit of employees 13% A clawback principle applies to variable remuneration, enabling the Committee to recoup variable remuneration under certain circumstances.
Clawback can be applied to both the cash and share-based elements of variable remuneration, via the reduction or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred share awards regardless of the year to which they relate.
The Committee considered there were no events or circumstances that would have made it appropriate to recoup remuneration during the year ending 30 June 2017.
5 56 6 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Remuneration report continued Main features of the proposed At a glance Remuneration Policy For ease of reference, the main features of the proposed Base salary other employees do not have additional Variable remuneration cap Remuneration Policy, which is provided in full on pages 59 to 63, and performance conditions attached to In a business where the majority of costs are Whilst there is a fide facto cap provided by The Group Finance Directors remuneration outcomes which will be put to a binding vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM are their restricted matching shares.
employee-related, a low cap on base salaries, the limit on the proportion of profits that can The Group Finance Directors total annual bonus comprising cash and share shown on the following pages.
Below is a summary of this years currently set at 120,000, seeks to ensure be awarded to employees in any given year, awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he may choose The current Policy therefore ensures that remuneration outcomes, which have been delivered under the current that fixed costs are minimised, and it delivers and in practice this can serve as an effective to make, increased from 750,000 FY 2015 16 to 950,000.
Should the Group between 40% and 77% of an Executive Policy, approved in 2014.
Finance Director voluntarily elect to commute the maximum of 50% of his cash a ratio of CEO to median employee pay cap on the pay awards to Executive Directors, Directors variable pay is deferred for five bonus, and as a result receive a matching share award, his maximum annual that is very low relative to the UK market.
the current Remuneration Policy does not Performance for the year ending 30 June 2017 years.
With a low basic salary, this also bonus will be 1,235,000, as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately Therefore it is not proposed to change explicitly cap any individual employees results in a very high proportion of total Performance in relation to the Groups KPIs and the short term to be received by the Group Finance Director will be dependent on achievement the existing Policy.
The Committee believes remuneration being deferred.
performance measures by which the Executive Directors are relative to the performance conditions, which means that 332,500 of this sum it is appropriate to retain discretion and assessed, has been positive through the period.
Particular may not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2022.
Variable remuneration, including This variable remuneration structure allows flexibility to reward performance, and does highlights include: matching shares the Remuneration Committee to flex the not want to risk creating an incentive to The Group operates a simple variable awards in order to reflect the performance 12% increase in AuM to Continued strong investment manage towards a particular financial remuneration structure for all employees of both the business and the individual in US$58.7bn: performance over 1, 3 and 5 years: threshold.
The Committee has a demonstrable including Executive Directors, based on a any given period.
The current Remuneration record of paying Executive Directors only Improved adjusted EBITDA 31% increase in diluted EPS to single annual profit-derived bonus pool that Policy plays a key role in providing flexibility for performance, with zero awards in margin of 65%: 23.7p per share: is capped at 25% of earnings before variable in variable costs, enabling key staff retention, some years.
23% increase in profit Continued focus on cost control remuneration, interest and tax.
There is a bias and thereby aligning the interests of clients, before tax The structure of Ashmores variable pay towards long-dated equity through the use of shareholders and employees through market awards should be seen in the context of the restricted shares and the voluntary option to cycles.
The Groups history demonstrates Further detail can be found in Figure 5 of the Annual Report on Policy which applies a low cap on base defer cash in favour of equity.
Ashmores pay that there is significant variability, in terms Remuneration on page 65. salaries, and which delivers a significant structure has always been straightforward, of both the proportion of profits made proportion of variable remuneration in comprised of an annual cash bonus and an available for variable remuneration and also Details of any elections made to commute cash bonus and related deferred restricted shares.
This supports the annual award of equity, which has vesting the awards made to Executive Directors, The Chief Executives remuneration outcomes awards of matching shares will be provided in the Remuneration Groups strategy and provides significant cost deferred for five years.
The Group does not including several cases when no award was The Chief Executives total annual bonus comprising cash and share report for the year in which the awards are made, as will the vesting flexibility in a cyclical business, thus aligning operate, and never has operated, a separate made, and the application of the stretching awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he outcome of the awards made in 2012 due to vest on 18 September the interests of clients, shareholders and long-term incentive programme.
performance conditions results in a significant may choose to make, increased from 1,500,000 FY 2015 16 to 2017.
As has been the case in previous years, base salaries for employees through market cycles.
proportion of remuneration being at risk.
Should the Chief Executive voluntarily elect to commute Executive Directors have remained unchanged at 100,000, a level The process of determining the annual The Committee believes this is an appropriate the maximum 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result receive a significantly below fixed pay levels for equivalent positions at peer cash bonus and share awards for Executive In addition, the Committee has never Policy for a business whose main assets are matching share award, his maximum annual bonus will be 5,200,000 organisations, consistent with the Companys management of its Directors is one to which the Remuneration utilised fully the capped 25% bonus pool: its employees, as it builds a strong equity as shown in the below chart.
Whilst the historical range of outcomes as a listed ownership culture which in turn delivers high by the Chief Executive will be dependent on achievement relative to the Committee retains discretion over the company is between 14% and 21% of profits levels of staff retention, whereas a formulaic Regulatory considerations for the year ending the performance conditions, which means that up to 1,400,000 of amounts awarded, the outcomes are based allocated to the employee bonus pool.
approach to determining pay can often drive 30 June 2017 this sum may not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2022. on detailed analysis of achievements relative The use of equity with significant deferral the wrong behaviours and thus long-term For remuneration relating to the year ending 30 June 2017, the to financial and non-financial KPIs.
Restricted and restricted matching shares awarded to the Chief ensures a strong alignment of interests outcomes for clients, shareholders and Remuneration Committee has again ensured that pay will be delivered Executive in 2010, vesting in 2015 and 2011, vesting in 2016 with For Executive Directors, in addition to between clients, shareholders and employees.
Therefore it is not proposed to Executive Directors and other employees categorised by the FCA respective grant values of 4,900,000 and 5,600,000 lapsed in full as the requirement to remain in service until employees and, in combination with ongoing to change the existing Policy.
as identified staff, consistent with the requirements of the Alternative a result of the application of the stretching performance conditions.
vesting, half of the restricted shares are performance conditions, seeks to support Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This has meant that Executive Shareholding requirement subject to four equally-weighted performance long-term decision-making.
The potentially Directors and other relevant employees will receive a proportion of The Committee recognises that a formal post conditions over the five-year period, relating dilutive effect of the equity awards has been their upfront or cash bonus delivered as a further award of restricted vesting shareholding requirement could be to: total shareholder return relative to a broad mitigated historically through the efficient shares which are retained and restricted from sale for a six-month useful in the case of new Executive Directors industry peer group: delivery of investment purchase of ordinary shares in the market period, rather than as cash.
Further details of this can be found in and therefore proposes introducing a new outperformance: growth in assets under by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust, and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
requirement for Executive Directors to build up management: and profitability.
it is intended that this approach continues.
a shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary Therefore it is not proposed to change the Consideration of malus and clawback for the year The individual may elect to defer up to half over a three-year period.
This period will existing Policy.
ending 30 June 2017 of his cash bonus into restricted shares that commence from the conclusion of the AGM in A clawback principle applies to variable remuneration, enabling also vest after five years, and which will be 2017 for existing Executive Directors and from the Committee to recoup variable remuneration under certain matched in the form of an additional award the first five-year vesting date for new circumstances.
Clawback can be applied to both the cash and of restricted shares.
For Executive Directors, Executive Directors, if the 2017 Remuneration share-based elements of variable remuneration, via the reduction half of the additional restricted shares are Policy is approved by shareholders.
or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred share awards subject to the performance conditions regardless of the year to which they relate.
The Committee believes it considered there were no events or circumstances that would have is important to ensure a consistent treatment made it appropriate to recoup remuneration during the year ending of deferred remuneration across the firm, 30 June 2017. and so matching restricted shares can be awarded to Executive Directors in the same way as any other employee, albeit that 56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 5 5 7 7 Remuneration report continued Main features of the proposed Remuneration Policy continued Chief Executive Officer variable remuneration Impact of Remuneration Policy on shareholder 2 outcomes over time returns across market cycles The chart below shows variable remuneration awarded to the The chart below shows the share of annual revenues CEO each year between 2009 and 2016.
As can be seen, the between shareholders, in the form of ordinary dividends and Committee exercises its discretion in setting the annual level of retained earnings, employees and taxation.
As revenues have award at an appropriate level based on the CEOs performance fluctuated through the market cycle, the remuneration policy and the performance of the business each year: and as such, has provided significant cost flexibility and therefore protected the variation in award level is reflective of the range of annual returns to shareholders.
In addition, as a result of the stretching performance conditions measured over the 5 year deferral period of restricted awards, the amount eventua Chief Executive officer v lly receive ariable r d by the CE emuner O when a ation wards Impact of Remuneration policy on shareholder 1 2 five outcomes o st can vary sig vn er time ificantly from the original award amount.
returns across market cycles m 12 100% 90% 10 80% 70% 8 60% 6 50% 40% 4 30% 20% 2 10% 0 0% Bonus awarded Bonus accepted Bonus received Retained earnings Dividends Taxation Bonus awarded includes cash paid in the year and restricted, bonus and matching Bonus pre tax Salary pre tax shares granted in the year at the grant price Bonus received includes cash paid in the year and the vesting value of any shares actually received five years later Bonus accepted shows the final amount accepted by the CEO after any waivers to charity or for the general benefit of staff 1.
This chart includes data on shares awarded in 2010 which vested in 2015 and shares awarded in 2011 which vested in 2016.
The chart will be updated in future years to show the vesting outcomes for shares awarded in 2012 onwards.
Dividends includes the estimated cost of the proposed final dividend for FY2016 17.
Terms of reference ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive Directors remuneration The terms of reference for the Remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to Committee include: corporate and individual performance and reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and that performance conditions are stretching relevance of the Remuneration Policy: and designed to promote the long-term reviewing the design of all share success of the Company: and incentive plans for approval by the ensuring that contractual terms on Board and shareholders: termination, and any payments made, ensuring that members of the are fair to the individual and the Company, executive management of the Company that failure is not rewarded and that the are provided with appropriate incentives duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
to encourage enhanced performance The number of Remuneration Committee and that remuneration incentives are meetings and their attendance by the compatible with the Companys risk Directors are set out in the table on page 49. policies and systems: making recommendations to the Board as to the Companys framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and to determine their total individual remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: 5 58 8 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Governance Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy Main features of the proposed Remuneration Policy continued This section of the Remuneration report How the views of shareholders The Company does not operate formal has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 are taken into account employee consultation on remuneration.
Chief Executive Officer variable remuneration Impact of Remuneration Policy on shareholder 2 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies However, employees are able to provide The Remuneration Committee regularly outcomes over time returns across market cycles and Groups Accounts and Reports direct feedback on the Companys compares the Companys Remuneration The chart below shows variable remuneration awarded to the The chart below shows the share of annual revenues Amendment Regulations 2013.
It sets out Remuneration Policy to their line managers Policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes CEO each year between 2009 and 2016.
As can be seen, the between shareholders, in the form of ordinary dividends and the Remuneration Policy for the Company.
or the Human Resources department.
account of the results of shareholder votes Committee exercises its discretion in setting the annual level of retained earnings, employees and taxation.
As revenues have The Policy has been developed taking into on remuneration.
award at an appropriate level based on the CEOs performance fluctuated through the market cycle, the remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee monitors account the principles of the UK Corporate and the performance of the business each year: and as such, has provided significant cost flexibility and therefore protected the effectiveness of the Companys If material changes to the Remuneration Governance Code 2014 and shareholders the variation in award level is reflective of the range of annual returns to shareholders.
Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining, Policy are contemplated, the Remuneration executive remuneration guidelines.
In addition, as a result of the stretching performance engaging and motivating employees, and Committee Chairman consults with major current Policy was approved by a binding conditions measured over the 5 year deferral period of restricted receives reports from the Chief Executive shareholders about these in advance.
shareholder vote in 2014, and can be found awards, the amount eventually received by the CEO when awards Officer on how the Companys remuneration on pages 56 to 59 of the 2016 Annual Report Details of votes cast to approve the Directors 1 vest can vary significantly from the original award amount.
policies are viewed by employees and and Accounts.
This policy was approved for Remuneration Policy and last years Annual whether they are meeting business needs.
three years and therefore will expire this Report on Remuneration are provided in the year.
The new Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee does not Annual Report on Remuneration section of proposed by the Committee is set out on seek to apply fixed ratios between the total this report.
Shareholders will be asked to remuneration levels of different roles in During the period, the Chairman of the approve the new policy at the 2017 AGM on the Company, as this would prevent it from Board, the Chairman of the Remuneration 20 October 2017.
This policy will take effect recruiting and retaining the necessary talent Committee and other senior Company for Directors from the date it is approved and in a highly competitive employment market.
representatives engaged with shareholders is expected to apply for three years.
However, the base salary multiple between and proxy voting agencies, both in writing and the highest and lowest paid UK-based Policy overview through formal meetings, in order to provide employees in the Company is less than 4.5x.
The Remuneration Committee determines, information and solicit comments and and agrees with the Board, the Companys feedback on the Companys remuneration policy on the remuneration of the Board practices and outcomes, and have considered Chairman, Executive Directors and other these discussions as part of their decisionmembers of executive management making process.
including employees designated as Consistent company-wide Code or Identified Staff under the FCAs approach Remuneration Codes.
The Remuneration The Company applies a consistent Committees terms of reference are 1.
The chart will be updated in future years to remuneration philosophy for employees available on the Companys website.
show the vesting outcomes for shares awarded in 2012 onwards.
In determining the Remuneration Policy, the The cap on base salary means that Remuneration Committee takes into account Executive Directors base salaries are set at the following: Terms of reference ensuring that a significant proportion a similar level to other senior investment and of Executive Directors remuneration the need to encourage and promote the The terms of reference for the Remuneration professional employees in the Company, and is structured so as to link rewards to long-term success of the Company: Committee include: the base salary range from lowest to highest corporate and individual performance and the need to attract, retain and motivate in the Company is considerably narrower than reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and that performance conditions are stretching talented Executive Directors and the market norm.
All employees are eligible relevance of the Remuneration Policy: and designed to promote the long-term senior management: for a performance-related annual bonus, and reviewing the design of all share success of the Company: and consistency with the remuneration the principle of bonus deferral into Company incentive plans for approval by the ensuring that contractual terms on principles applied to Ashmore employees shares or equivalent applies to annual Board and shareholders: termination, and any payments made, as a whole: bonuses for all employees who have at least ensuring that members of the are fair to the individual and the Company, one full years service.
Employees other than external comparisons to examine current executive management of the Company that failure is not rewarded and that the Executive Directors may elect to receive market trends and practices and equivalent are provided with appropriate incentives duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
up to the first 50,000 or local currency roles in similar companies taking into to encourage enhanced performance equivalent of their annual bonus delivered account their size, business complexity, The number of Remuneration Committee and that remuneration incentives are as 90% cash and 10% as restricted shares, international scope and relative meetings and their attendance by the compatible with the Companys risk rather than in the Companys usual performance: and Directors are set out in the table on page 49. policies and systems: proportions of 60% cash and 40% restricted the requirements of the Remuneration making recommendations to the Board shares.
Rates of pension contribution and Codes of the UK financial services as to the Companys framework or fringe benefit provisions are consistent regulator.
broad policy for the remuneration of the between executives and other employees Chairman, the Executive Directors and within each country where the the Company Secretary and to determine Company operates.
their total individual remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: 58 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc oo u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 5 5 9 9 Directors remuneration policy continued Policy table The table below summarises the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM, will be effective from 20 October 2017.
Figure 1 Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors BASE SALARY FIXED PAY PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero Base salaries are capped.
bonus payment, should that be appropriate.
The cap on base salary MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY helps to contain fixed costs.
The cap is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the cap to be changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
FRINGE BENEFITS FIXED PAY PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provide cost-effective benefits, to support the wellbeing The Company currently provides benefits such as medical insurance of employees.
In the event of relocation of an executive, the Company could consider appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within the Policy.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
PENSION FIXED PAY PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which employees Company contributions are made, normally on a defined can supplement with their contributions.
contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an equivalent cash allowance.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY The current level of Company contribution is 9% of base salary, with a further matching contribution of up to 1% of base salary, should the Executive Director make a personal contribution of an equivalent amount.
The contribution level is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if necessary to reflect trends in market practice and changes to pensions legislation.
6 60 0 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Directors remuneration policy continued Policy table VARIABLE COMPENSATION DISCRETIONARY The table below summarises the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM, will be effective from 20 October 2017.
PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONGequivalents on deferred restricted bonus share or phantom TERM STRATEGY equivalent awards and on the portion of restricted share and Figure 1 restricted matching share awards that are not subject to a Rewards performance and ensures interests of executives are Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors performance condition vesting after five years will be paid out in closely aligned with other shareholders.
BASE SALARY FIXED PAY line with the Companys dividend payment schedule.
Dividends or dividend equivalents on the portion of restricted and restricted OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES matching share or phantom equivalent awards which are subject PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK to a performance condition will be accrued and paid out at the time STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary the award vests and to the extent of vesting.
For any awards made Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero Base salaries are capped.
variable pay award depending on personal and Company to a Director prior to his or her appointment as a Director, the bonus payment, should that be appropriate.
The cap on base salary performance, by applying a range of performance indicators such MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY dividend or dividend equivalent payments are made on share helps to contain fixed costs.
as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and strategic The current cap is 120,000. awards in full, under previous commitments made to participants.
The variable pay award comprises The cap is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the cap to be a cash bonus part of which may be voluntarily deferred into The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative restricted shares and a long-term incentive in the form of both a remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, although or regulatory requirements.
restricted share award and a restricted matching share award on none have been granted in recent years, and to vary the percentage any voluntarily deferred cash bonus.
split of award between cash and share awards to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
Cash bonus 60% of total award FRINGE BENEFITS FIXED PAY The executive may voluntarily commute up to half of the cash bonus MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY in return for the same value in a restricted bonus share award or The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees, phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred shares are including executives, is capped, currently at 25% of earnings before PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND eligible for restricted matching shares or phantom equivalent vesting variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The Policy STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK after five years subject to conditions see 3 below.
permits the Remuneration Committee to vary this cap if necessary Provide cost-effective benefits, to support the wellbeing The Company currently provides benefits such as medical insurance to meet business needs.
In the event of relocation of an executive, the Long-term incentives under the Company Executive Company could consider appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific The policy is to cap the aggregate sum available for variable Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to compensation rather than to cap individual variable 2.
Restricted shares award 40% of total award time, within the Policy.
There is no separate long-term incentive plan, rather 40% of the executives annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into Company MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY The high proportion of variable compensation deferral, with shares or phantom equivalent for a period of five years and does Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only vesting after five years and subject in part to ongoing performance not qualify for matching.
Half of this deferred portion is subject to a small percentage of total remuneration.
conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk management, additional performance conditions on vesting.
The Policy permits in support of the Companys risk and compliance controls.
Most the Committee to set suitable performance conditions each year importantly, though, the remuneration structure is designed to for each award type.
The performance condition for the most support and fit with the long-term strategy of the business.
The PENSION FIXED PAY recent awards was a combination of: Group operates in a growth sector which experiences market cycles and this aspect of the Remuneration Policy plays a key role 25% relative total shareholder return TSR PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND in providing flexibility in variable costs, enabling key staff retention, Measured against an asset management peer group STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK and thereby aligning the interests of clients, shareholders and over five years.
employees including Directors through such cycles.
Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which employees Company contributions are made, normally on a defined 25% investment outperformance can supplement with their contributions.
contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an MALUS AND CLAWBACK Relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years.
In addition to the performance condition described above, malus 25% growth in AuM MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY and clawback can be applied to all elements of variable A compound increase in AuM over the five-year remuneration at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, The current level of Company contribution is 9% of base salary, performance period.
including to unvested share awards made in prior periods.
with a further matching contribution of up to 1% of base salary, 25% profitability Circumstances that may trigger the application of the Committees should the Executive Director make a personal contribution of an Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance discretion include a material misstatement of the Companys equivalent amount.
The contribution level is reviewed periodically: relative to a comparator index over the five-year results, a material failure in risk management, serious reputational the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if performance period.
damage, or the executives misconduct.
necessary to reflect trends in market practice and changes 3.
Restricted matching shares awarded on the voluntarily to pensions legislation.
PERSONAL SHAREHOLDING commuted cash bonus from 1 above Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, equivalent to 200% of salary over a three-year period.
This period subject to the same performance conditions on half of the matching will commence from the conclusion of the AGM in 2017 for award as that described in 2 above.
The maximum match used to existing Executive Directors and from the first five-year vesting date on any award made under the current policy was one-for-one date for newly appointed Executive Directors.
the Policy permits the matching level to be changed for future awards but not to exceed three-for-one.
Dividends or dividend 60 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 66 1 1 Directors remuneration policy continued Differences in Remuneration Policy In addition, the Remuneration Committee In summary, the contractual provisions are for Executive Directors compared may offer additional cash and or share-based as follows: with other employees elements to take account of any Provision Detailed terms remuneration relinquished when leaving the The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Notice period 12 months former employer, when it considers these to Directors is generally consistent with that for Termination payment Base salary plus value be in the best interests of the Company and employees across the Company as a whole.
in the event of of benefits including therefore shareholders.
In considering any However, there are some differences which termination by the pension paid monthly such payments, the Committee would take the Remuneration Committee believes are Company without and subject to account of the nature, vesting dates and any necessary to reflect the different due notice mitigation performance requirements attached to the responsibilities of employees across the Change of control Same terms as above relinquished remuneration.
Below Executive Director level, on termination may determine to make any such recruitment while the same five-year deferral policy related awards outside the variable pay pool applies, share awards are not subject Any outstanding share-based entitlements cap.
For an internal appointment, any variable to additional performance conditions.
granted to an Executive Director under the pay element awarded in respect of the prior Employees other than Executive Directors Companys share plans will be determined role may be allowed to be paid out according may elect to receive up to the first 50,000 based on the relevant plan rules.
to its terms, adjusted if necessary, to take or local currency equivalent of their annual An Executive Directors service contract may into account the appointment.
bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10% as be terminated without notice and without any restricted shares, rather than in the For external and internal appointments, further payment or compensation, except for Companys usual proportions of 60% the Company may meet certain relocation sums accrued up to the date of termination, cash and 40% restricted shares.
expenses as appropriate including but not on the occurrence of certain events such as limited to assistance with housing, gross misconduct.
External Non-executive immigration, taxes and travel.
Director positions The Committee may enter into settlement Executive Directors are permitted to agreements with departing Directors, should Service contracts and loss of serve as Non-executive Directors of other the circumstances warrant it, and limited legal office payment policy companies where there is no competition fees, outplacement fees and retirement gifts Service contracts normally continue until the with the Companys business activities and may be provided.
Executive Directors agreed retirement date where these duties do not interfere with the or such other date as the parties agree.
Incentive plan discretions individuals ability to perform his or her duties The service contracts contain provisions for the Company.
Tom Shippey holds one The Remuneration Committee will operate for early termination.
unpaid external appointment with a charitable the current share plans in accordance with organisation unconnected to the asset their respective rules and the policy set out Notice periods are limited to 12 months by management industry.
Other than as noted above, and in accordance with the Listing either party.
Service agreements contain no above, Executive Directors do not presently Rules and relevant legislation or regulation.
contractual entitlement to receive variable hold any external appointments with any As is consistent with market practice, the pay: participation in these arrangements is non-Ashmore-related companies.
Remuneration Committee retains discretion at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
over a number of areas relating to operating The Executive Directors service contracts and administrating these plans.
These include are available for inspection at the Companys Where an outside appointment is but are not limited to the following: registered office during normal accepted in furtherance of the business hours.
Companys business, any fees received Who participates in the plans: are remitted to the Company.
The timing of the grant of an award If the employment of an Executive Director is and or payment: If the appointment is not connected terminated without giving the period of notice to the Companys business, the required under the contract, the Executive The size of an award and or a payment Executive Director is entitled to retain Director would be entitled to claim within the plan limits approved by any fees received.
recompense for up to one years shareholders: remuneration subject to consideration of The choice of and adjustment of the obligation to mitigate the loss.
Such performance measures and targets in Approach to remuneration for new recompense is expected to be limited to base accordance with the policy set out above Executive Director appointments salary due for any unexpired notice period, and the rules of each plan including the The remuneration package for an externally and any amount assessed by the treatment of delisted companies for the recruited new Executive Director would be Remuneration Committee as representing purpose of the TSR comparator group : set in accordance with the terms and the value of other contractual benefits and Discretion relating to the measurement maximum levels of the Companys approved pension which would have been received of performance in the event of a change Remuneration Policy in force at the time during the period.
In the event of a change of control or reconstruction: of appointment.
of control of the Company, there is no Determination of a good leaver in addition enhancement to these terms.
to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes, based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: 6 62 2 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Directors remuneration policy continued Differences in Remuneration Policy In addition, the Remuneration Committee In summary, the contractual provisions are Adjustments required in order to comply Reward scenarios contracts of service.
They are appointed for for Executive Directors compared may offer additional cash and or share-based as follows: with any new regulatory requirements an initial three-year period, subject to annual The Companys Policy results in the with other employees elements to take account of any which the Company is compelled to shareholder re-election.
Their continued majority of the remuneration received by Provision Detailed terms remuneration relinquished when leaving the adhere to: and engagement is subject to the requirements The Remuneration Policy for the Executive the Executive Directors being dependent Notice period 12 months former employer, when it considers these to of the Companys Articles relating to the Directors is generally consistent with that for on performance, and being deferred for Adjustments required in certain Termination payment Base salary plus value be in the best interests of the Company and retirement of Directors by rotation.
The employees across the Company as a whole.
five years into restricted shares.
circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate in the event of of benefits including therefore shareholders.
In considering any letters of appointment are available for However, there are some differences which restructuring, special dividends and on a termination by the pension paid monthly As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap such payments, the Committee would take inspection at the Companys registered the Remuneration Committee believes are change of control.
Company without and subject to individual awards, but rather the aggregate account of the nature, vesting dates and any office during normal business hours.
necessary to reflect the different due notice mitigation pool.
As such, it is not possible to Any use of the above discretions would, performance requirements attached to the responsibilities of employees across the Change of control Same terms as above demonstrate maximum remuneration where relevant, be explained in the Annual Compliance with the relinquished remuneration.
Below Executive Director level, on termination levels.
In lieu of this, the minimum fixed Report on Remuneration.
As appropriate, it Remuneration Code may determine to make any such recruitment while the same five-year deferral policy remuneration is illustrated in Figure 2, which might also be the subject of consultation with The Remuneration Committee regularly related awards outside the variable pay pool applies, share awards are not subject Any outstanding share-based entitlements provides an indication of the potential range the Companys major shareholders.
reviews its Remuneration Policys cap.
granted to an Executive Director under the of total remuneration using the highest and compliance with the principles of the pay element awarded in respect of the prior Employees other than Executive Directors Companys share plans will be determined Legacy arrangements lowest variable pay awards in a rolling fiveRemuneration Codes of the UK financial role may be allowed to be paid out according may elect to receive up to the first 50,000 based on the relevant plan rules.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy year period and assuming full vesting, five services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.
to its terms, adjusted if necessary, to take or local currency equivalent of their annual An Executive Directors service contract may includes authority for the Company to honour years later at the grant price, of the long-term into account the appointment.
bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10% as The Remuneration Policy is designed to be be terminated without notice and without any any commitments entered into with current incentive components based on upper restricted shares, rather than in the For external and internal appointments, consistent with the prudent management further payment or compensation, except for or former Directors that have been disclosed quartile TSR or equivalent achievement Companys usual proportions of 60% the Company may meet certain relocation of risk, and the sustained, long-term sums accrued up to the date of termination, to shareholders in previous Remuneration relative to other performance conditions.
expenses as appropriate including but not performance of the Company.
on the occurrence of certain events such as reports.
Details of any payments to former Non-executive Directors are engaged limited to assistance with housing, gross misconduct.
Directors will be set out in the Annual Report External Non-executive under letters of appointment and do not have immigration, taxes and travel.
on Remuneration as they arise.
Director positions The Committee may enter into settlement Executive Directors are permitted to agreements with departing Directors, should Service contracts and loss of Figure 2 serve as Non-executive Directors of other the circumstances warrant it, and limited legal office payment policy Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 companies where there is no competition fees, outplacement fees and retirement gifts Service contracts normally continue until the CEO with the Companys business activities and may be provided.
Executive Directors agreed retirement date Fixed Minimum where these duties do not interfere with the or such other date as the parties agree.
Lowest pay received in Incentive plan discretions individuals ability to perform his or her duties five year rolling period The service contracts contain provisions for the Company.
Tom Shippey holds one The Remuneration Committee will operate Highest pay received in for early termination.
unpaid external appointment with a charitable the current share plans in accordance with five year rolling period organisation unconnected to the asset their respective rules and the policy set out Notice periods are limited to 12 months by GFD management industry.
Other than as noted above, and in accordance with the Listing Fixed Minimum either party.
contractual entitlement to receive variable Lowest pay received in hold any external appointments with any As is consistent with market practice, the pay: participation in these arrangements is five year rolling period non-Ashmore-related companies.
Highest pay received in over a number of areas relating to operating five year rolling period The Executive Directors service contracts and administrating these plans.
These include are available for inspection at the Companys Where an outside appointment is 000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 but are not limited to the following: registered office during normal accepted in furtherance of the Base salary Pension Share bonus face value using share price at grant business hours.
Companys business, any fees received Who participates in the plans: Benets Cash bonus LTI: restricted shares and matching awards face value using share price at grant are remitted to the Company.
The timing of the grant of an award If the employment of an Executive Director is and or payment: If the appointment is not connected terminated without giving the period of notice Figure 3 to the Companys business, the required under the contract, the Executive The size of an award and or a payment Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors Executive Director is entitled to retain Director would be entitled to claim within the plan limits approved by Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum any fees received.
recompense for up to one years shareholders: Board Chairman To pay an all-inclusive basic The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for The overall fees payable to Non-executive remuneration subject to consideration of The choice of and adjustment of fee fee that takes account of all his responsibilities.
The level of the fee is Directors will remain within the limit stated the obligation to mitigate the loss.
Such performance measures and targets in Approach to remuneration for new the role and responsibilities reviewed periodically by the Committee, with in the Articles of Association, currently recompense is expected to be limited to base accordance with the policy set out above Executive Director appointments reference to market levels in comparably sized 750,000 salary due for any unexpired notice period, and the rules of each plan including the FTSE companies, and a recommendation is The current level of fees is disclosed in the The remuneration package for an externally and any amount assessed by the treatment of delisted companies for the then made to the Board without the Chairman Annual Report on Remuneration recruited new Executive Director would be Remuneration Committee as representing purpose of the TSR comparator group : being present set in accordance with the terms and the value of other contractual benefits and Discretion relating to the measurement maximum levels of the Companys approved pension which would have been received Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive basic The Non-executive Directors are paid a The overall fees payable to Non-executive of performance in the event of a change Remuneration Policy in force at the time during the period.
In the event of a change Director fees fee that takes account of the single inclusive basic fee.
There are no Directors will remain within the limit stated of control or reconstruction: of appointment.
of control of the Company, there is no role and responsibilities supplements for Committee Chairmanships in the Articles of Association, currently Determination of a good leaver in addition enhancement to these terms.
or memberships: the fee levels are reviewed 750,000 to any specified categories for incentive periodically by the Chairman and Executive The current level of fees is disclosed in plan purposes, based on the rules of each Directors the Annual Report on Remuneration plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: 62 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 6 6 3 3 Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
Figure 4 Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2017 audited information The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2017.
Benefits for both Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme, and for Mark Coombs includes the Companys contribution towards transportation costs in relation to his role.
Benefits for David Bennett relate to transportation costs and the associated income tax and national insurance costs in relation to his role.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments of dividends or dividend equivalents on such awards prior to their vesting date.
In respect of the year ending 30 June 2017, Mark Coombs waived any eligibility for, and any right or expectation to receive, a cash bonus of up to 283,391 2016 190,991, to be used by the Company for the general benefit of employees.
In addition to this, in both the years ending 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself: the numbers in the table above exclude any waived variable remuneration.
Had he not waived these amounts, Mark Coombs total bonus in respect of the year ending 30 June 2017 would have been 3,200,000.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey may commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of bonus share or phantom bonus share awards and an equivalent value in matching share or phantom matching share awards.
All share or phantom share awards will be reported in the Directors share and phantom share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey both chose to commute 50% of their cash bonuses pre-waiver in 2016 for an equivalent amount of bonus share awards.
From the year ending 30 June 2015 onward, additional performance conditions are applied to 50% of any restricted or matching share award.
The amounts shown in the column labelled mandatorily deferred share bonus represent the 50% of restricted and matching share awards that do not have additional performance conditions attached.
These amounts represent the cash value of shares awarded at grant, which will vest after five years subject to continued employment.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive both Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey received a proportion of their bonus which would have otherwise been delivered in cash, as an additional award of restricted shares which will vest after a retention period.
In 2017, prior to any elections made to commute cash bonus for bonus shares and an equivalent value in matching shares, the value of this award for Mark Coombs was 108,000 2016 29,252 and for Tom Shippey was 25,650 2016 14,628.
In respect of prior year deferred share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly to the nominated charities.
The figures shown exclude the amounts waived.
Dividends or dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily and mandatorily deferred share or phantom share awards in the period.
Nick Land retired from the Board on 21 October 2016.
Mark Coombs receives cash in lieu of a pension contribution.
Tom Shippeys pension contribution includes an employee contribution via salary sacrifice: in 2017 this was 500 2016 5,375.
6 64 4 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Annual report on remuneration Total bonus award for the year ending 30 June 2017 Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director GFD performance measures This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
As described in detail in other sections of the Annual Report the Group, led by the CEO and GFD, has performed well this year.
The CEOs performance has been measured relative to financial 75% and non-financial 25% KPIs.
All financial KPIs assessed by the Figure 4 Committee have demonstrated a marked improvement over the prior period, as very strong investment performance and improved sentiment Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2017 audited information towards Emerging Markets combined with continued tight control of operating costs has delivered increased profitability for the Group.
The lag The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2017. between delivering strong investment performance and client allocations being made has meant that despite excellent performance, net Executive Directors Non-executive Directors subscriptions only turned positive in the second half.
Tom Dame Anne The GFDs performance has been assessed in relation to a range of operational objectives.
During the period all departments under his Mark Coombs Shippey Clive David Simon Peter Pringle 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11 1, 5, 7, 11 2 10 Adamson Bennett Fraser Gibbs Nick Land DCMG supervision performed well.
2017 100,000 100,000 60,000 75,000 85,000 150,000 18,462 60,000 The development of the Groups strategy has also been positive, with continued diversification of distribution channels through the growth of Salary and fees 2016 100,000 100,000 46,615 70,404 77,340 108,993 73,333 60,000 the intermediary business, and the continued growth of local asset management activity in Colombia, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia.
2017 8,404 2,307 887 The Groups personnel have remained highly engaged through another market cycle and with very low unplanned turnover in the period under Taxable benefits 2016 8,400 2,100 1,633 review, in large part underpinned by the Groups distinctive remuneration philosophy, which places an emphasis on pay for performance and 2017 9,000 10,000 long dated equity incentives, thus aligning all employees with clients and external shareholders through market cycles.
Pensions 2016 9,000 15,250 Figure 5 2017 1,818,548 544,350 CEO and GFD performance measures Cash bonus 2016 209,708 210,375 Executive Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Committee assessment 2017 Voluntarily deferred share bonus 2016 CEO Business financial To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT, 75% Investment performance has been very strong through the period 410,850 225,000 performance to achieve higher than budgeted growth with 91%, 86% and 87% of AuM outperforming over one, three 2017 762,400 215,650 Mandatorily deferred in AuM and to effectively manage and five years respectively, adding US$4.2 billion in AuM 6 share bonus 2016 462,900 277,125 investment performance to deliver Operating costs have remained tightly controlled and under budget 2017 2,580,948 760,000 consistent growth relative to each EBIT increased strongly by 22% relative to the prior period Total bonus unblended investment theme 2016 AuM development was good, increasing by 12% to US$58.7 billion 1,083,458 712,500 2017 95,574 Long-term incentives CEO Non-financial Strategy development and 25% Group strategy developing as planned 3 vesting 2016 management implementation, recruitment, staff Personnel matters have been effectively managed, with strong, 284,932 performance turnover and succession planning and stable investment and management teams in place Total for year ending 2017 2,793,926 872,307 60,000 75,877 85,000 150,000 18,462 60,000 30 June 2017 regulatory and compliance adherence Strong risk management, governance and compliance culture Total for year ending embedded and maintained in all aspects of the business 2016 1,485,790 829,850 46,615 72,037 77,340 108,993 73,333 60,000 30 June 2016 Ashmores distinctive culture continues to support the business 1.
Benefits for both Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme, and for Mark Coombs includes the Companys contribution towards through market cycles, demonstrated by strong staff retention transportation costs in relation to his role.
GFD Management Department performance assessed for 35% Departments have remained stable with low turnover, and strong, 2.
of departments Finance, Corporate Development, developing teams 3.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments Investor Relations, Company Secretarial Operational improvements in financial management delivered of dividends or dividend equivalents on such awards prior to their vesting date.
In addition to this, in both the years ending 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 Mark Active cost control delivered savings in the year Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself: the numbers in the table above exclude any waived variable remuneration.
Had he not waived these amounts, GFD Management of Local asset management business 25% Local asset management businesses developing as planned, with Mark Coombs total bonus in respect of the year ending 30 June 2017 would have been 3,200,000.
2016 1,425,000 subsidiary business growth and development of profitability AuM increasing as the businesses mature and develop track 5.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey may commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of bonus share or phantom bonus share awards and records activities outside and scale, integration an equivalent value in matching share or phantom matching share awards.
All share or phantom share awards will be reported in the Directors share and phantom the UK, including of offices and effectiveness of joint Turkish business successfully sold share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey both chose to commute 50% of their cash bonuses pre-waiver in 2016 for an equivalent joint ventures venture relationships amount of bonus share awards.
Major distribution partner introduced to Chinese joint venture 6.
The amounts shown in Indian investment platform established the column labelled mandatorily deferred share bonus represent the 50% of restricted and matching share awards that do not have additional performance conditions US operations consolidated into New York operating hub attached.
GFD Corporate Contribution to the development and 30% Instrumental in management of operating costs 7.
In 2017, prior to any elections made to development and implementation of strategic goals and Continued support to development of business strategy, commute cash bonus for bonus shares and an equivalent value in matching shares, the value of this award for Mark Coombs was 108,000 2016 29,252 and for contribution to increasing value for shareholders with specific focus on subsidiary business management and Tom Shippey was 25,650 2016 14,628. business strategy development 8.
GFD Investor relations Broadening the shareholder base 10% Internal and external relationships and communication remain 9.
and communication and communicating effectively with effectively managed 10.
Nick Land retired from the Board on 21 October 2016. external parties, the Board and all other relevant stakeholders 11.
The Remuneration Committee takes the results of this detailed individual appraisal process and uses its discretion to determine a final bonus award.
Alongside the results of the individual appraisal the Committee takes into consideration affordability, given that the bonus pool is capped at the Group level.
64 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 6 6 5 5 Annual report on remuneration continued For additional information, Figure 6 shows the history of financial results for the last five years.
Figure 6 Five-year summary of financial results 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 AuM US$bn at period end 58.7 52.6 58.9 75.0 77.4 Operating profit m 166.8 137.9 181.0 171.3 232.0 Figure 7 Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2017 audited information Share price on Performance period No.
of Date date of award Face value Face value Name Type of award shares of awards % of salary end date 1, 2 Mark Coombs Restricted shares 161,330 16 September 2016 3.3955 547,796 548% 15 September 2021 1, 2 Mark Coombs Matching shares 120,999 16 September 2016 3.3955 410,852 411% 15 September 2021 2 Tom Shippey Restricted shares 88,353 16 September 2016 3.3955 300,003 300% 15 September 2021 2 Tom Shippey Matching shares 66,265 16 September 2016 3.3955 225,003 225% 15 September 2021 1.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2016, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself, the numbers in the table above exclude any waived variable remuneration.
In addition Executives voluntarily defer their bonus into shares in order to receive an equivalent level of matching shares and are also required under the AIFMD rules to defer a portion of their cash bonus for six months.
These awards are not subject to any performance conditions and full details can be found in Figure 10.
Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2017 performance conditions Figure 7 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during the year.
These represent the Restricted and Matching Share awards, 50% of which are subject to additional performance conditions, and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
The remaining 50% are subject to continued employment.
The performance conditions for the most recent awards were a combination of: 25% relative total shareholder return TSR, measured against an asset management peer group over five years.
25% investment outperformance, relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years.
25% growth in assets under management, demonstrated through a compound increase in AuM over the five-year performance period.
25% profitability, demonstrated through Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance relative to a comparator index over the five-year performance period.
The performance conditions vesting scale and TSR peer group are shown in Figures 8 and 9 respectively.
Performance and vesting outcome for the Chief Executives 2011 long-term incentive awards which vested during the year ended 30 June 2017 During the period, shares awarded to Mark Coombs in 2011 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date, all bonus shares vested, and the TSR performance condition was applied to the vesting restricted and matching shares.
The Companys TSR was 10.4%, which ranked Ashmore at 15.73 relative to the TSR peer group of 18 companies: the median rank which would have resulted in 25% vesting was 9.5 or a TSR of 90.7%.
Therefore no restricted or matching share awards vested.
Performance and vesting outcome for the Group Financial Directors 2011 long-term incentive awards which vested during the year ended 30 June 2017 During the period, shares awarded to Tom Shippey in 2011 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all bonus, restricted and matching shares vested.
These awards were not subject to the TSR performance condition as they were awarded prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
6 66 6 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued For additional information, Figure 6 shows the history of financial results for the last five years.
Figure 8 Performance conditions vesting scale Figure 6 Performance condition Performance % of award vesting Five-year summary of financial results Below median of peer group Zero 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Median 25% AuM US$bn at period end 58.7 52.6 58.9 75.0 77.4 TSR Between median and upper quartile Straight-line proportionate vesting Operating profit m 166.8 137.9 181.0 171.3 232.0 Upper quartile 100% Below 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks Zero Figure 7 over three and five years Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2017 audited information Share price on 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks over 25% Performance period No.
of Date date of award Face value Face value three and five years Name Type of award shares of awards % of salary end date Investment outperformance Between 50% and 75% of assets outperforming the Straight-line proportionate vesting 1, 2 Mark Coombs Restricted shares 161,330 16 September 2016 3.3955 547,796 548% 15 September 2021 benchmarks over three and five years 1, 2 Mark Coombs Matching shares 120,999 16 September 2016 3.3955 410,852 411% 15 September 2021 75% or above of assets outperforming the benchmarks 100% 2 Tom Shippey Restricted shares 88,353 16 September 2016 3.3955 300,003 300% 15 September 2021 over three and five-years 2 Tom Shippey Matching shares 66,265 16 September 2016 3.3955 225,003 225% 15 September 2021 Below 5% compound increase in AuM over the fiveZero 1.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2016, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration year performance period Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself, the numbers in the table above exclude any waived variable remuneration.
5% compound increase in AuM over the five-year 25% 2.
In addition Executives voluntarily defer their bonus into shares in order to receive an equivalent level of matching shares and are also required under the AIFMD rules to defer performance period a portion of their cash bonus for six months.
Growth in Assets under Management Between 5% and 10% compound increase in AuM Straight-line proportionate vesting over the five-year performance period Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2017 performance conditions Figure 7 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during the year.
These represent the Restricted and Matching Share 10% or above compound increase in AuM over the 100% awards, 50% of which are subject to additional performance conditions, and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the extent five-year performance period that the performance conditions are met.
Below the benchmark return Zero The performance conditions for the most recent awards were a combination of: At the benchmark return 25% Between the benchmark return and 10% Straight-line proportionate vesting 25% relative total shareholder return TSR, measured against an asset management peer group over five years.
Profitability outperformance 25% investment outperformance, relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years.
At or above 10% outperformance relative to the 100% 25% growth in assets under management, demonstrated through a compound increase in AuM over the five-year performance period.
benchmark return 25% profitability, demonstrated through Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance relative to a comparator index over the five-year performance period.
Figure 9 The performance conditions vesting scale and TSR peer group are shown in Figures 8 and 9 respectively.
TSR peer group Company Country of listing Company Country of listing Performance and vesting outcome for the Chief Executives 2011 long-term incentive awards which vested during the year ended 30 June 2017 Aberdeen Asset Management UK Invesco USA During the period, shares awarded to Mark Coombs in 2011 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date, all bonus shares vested, and the Affiliated Managers USA Janus Henderson Investors USA & Australia TSR performance condition was applied to the vesting restricted and matching shares.
The Companys TSR was 10.4%, which ranked Ashmore Alliance Bernstein USA Jupiter Fund Management UK at 15.73 relative to the TSR peer group of 18 companies: the median rank which would have resulted in 25% vesting was 9.5 or a TSR of BlackRock USA Man Group UK 90.7%.
CI Financial Income Fund Canada Schroders UK Performance and vesting outcome for the Group Financial Directors 2011 long-term incentive awards which Eaton Vance USA SEI Investments USA vested during the year ended 30 June 2017 Federated Investors USA T Rowe Price USA During the period, shares awarded to Tom Shippey in 2011 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all bonus, restricted and matching Franklin Templeton USA Waddell and Reed USA shares vested.
These awards were not subject to the TSR performance condition as they were awarded prior to his appointment as an GAM Holding Switzerland Executive Director.
Note: As a result of the merger of Henderson Group and Janus Capital Group, both companies have been removed from the TSR comparator group for awards made prior to 2017 and the new combined entity, Janus Henderson Investors, will be included in the TSR comparator group for awards made during the year ending 30 June 2018.
TSR is a well-established and recognised performance measure, which aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
A comparator group of 17 companies has been selected from the global investment management sector.
The Committee reviews the peer group periodically to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 6 6 7 7 Annual report on remuneration continued Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2011, 30 June 2012, 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2016, Mark Coombs chose to waive 20%, 10%, 10% and 10% respectively of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Number of shares at 30 June 2016, Granted during year and Number of shares at 30 June 2017 figures are shown excluding the amounts waived.
On the vesting release date, any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive remuneration principles in regard to the delivery of remuneration in retained instruments, a proportion of Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys cash bonuses relating to the year ending 30 June 2016 were delivered in the form of restricted shares, subject to a sixmonth retention period, rather than being delivered in cash.
These shares vested in full on the date shown and were not subject to any additional performance conditions.
KEY RS Restricted shares RBS Restricted bonus shares RMS Restricted matching shares 6 68 8 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2011, 30 June 2012, 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2016, Mark Coombs chose to waive 20%, 10%, 10% and 10% respectively of any Total  1,151,879 element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated 3.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive remuneration principles in regard to the delivery of remuneration in retained instruments, a by himself.
On proportion of Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys cash bonuses relating to the year ending 30 June 2016 were delivered in the form of restricted shares, subject to a sixthe vesting release date, any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
month retention period, rather than being delivered in cash.
KEY RS Restricted shares MS Matching shares NDBS Bonus shares awarded while not a Director KEY BS Bonus shares NDRS Restricted shares awarded while NDMS Matching shares awarded while not a Director RS Restricted shares RBS Restricted bonus shares RMS Restricted matching shares not a Director 68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 6 6 9 9 Annual report on remuneration continued The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in the market by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
As detailed in the Business review, the EBT continues to make market purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any ten-year period following the date of the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share capital.
As at 30 June 2017, the Company had 5.5% of the Companys issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff.
All of the awards made to date have been satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, thus none of the Companys obligations under its employee share plans have been met by newly issued shares.
Defined benefit pension entitlements None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined benefit pension plans.
Directors shareholding and share interests Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Although there is currently no formal shareholding requirement, the Executive Directors have substantial interests in Company shares.
It is the intention to implement a formal requirement for Executive Directors to build an unrestricted, post vesting shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary under the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy, to be voted on at the 2017 AGM.
If the Policy is approved, existing Executive Directors will be required to build up this shareholding over the three-year period following the approval of the Policy by shareholders.
Figure 11 Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2017 audited information Outstanding voluntarily Outstanding restricted and deferred bonus 1 3 Beneficially owned matching share awards share awards Total interest in shares Executive Directors Mark Coombs 281,128,915 2,460,758 1,054,611 284,644,284 2 Tom Shippey 0 806,315 345,564 1,151,879 Non-executive Directors Clive Adamson 0 0 David Bennett 11,255 11,255 Simon Fraser 25,000 25,000 Peter Gibbs 50,000 50,000 Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 3,796 3,796 1.
Outstanding restricted shares and matching shares awarded in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are subject to performance conditions.
Half of the restricted shares and matching shares awarded in 2015 and 2016 are subject to performance conditions.
Restricted and matching share awards made to Tom Shippey prior to his appointment as a Director are not subject to performance conditions.
Save as described above, there have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 6 September 2017.
The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for loans with the express permission of the Board.
7 70 0 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer the market by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
As detailed in the Business review, the EBT continues to make market Figure 12 purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
Comparison of percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus 2016 to 2017 % The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
Under these change agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any ten-year period Chief Executive base salary 0% following the date of the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share capital.
As at 30 June 2017, the Relevant comparator employees base salary 2.3% Company had 5.5% of the Companys issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff.
All of the awards made to date have been satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, thus none of the Companys obligations under its employee share plans have Chief Executive taxable benefits 0% been met by newly issued shares.
Relevant comparator employees taxable benefits 9.9% Chief Executive annual bonus 166.7% Defined benefit pension entitlements Relevant comparator employees annual bonus 12.2% None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined benefit pension plans.
Figure 12 compares the percentage change from 2016 to 2017 in remuneration elements for the Chief Executive with the average Directors shareholding and share interests year-on-year change across relevant comparator employees as a whole.
Relevant employees are full-time employees of Ashmore Group Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Although there is currently no formal shareholding requirement, the who have been employed throughout the full performance year.
Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity or for the Executive Directors have substantial interests in Company shares.
It is the intention to implement a formal requirement for Executive Directors general benefit of employees.
to build an unrestricted, post vesting shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary under the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy, to be voted on at the 2017 AGM.
If the Policy is approved, existing Executive Directors will be required to build up this shareholding over the three-year Performance chart period following the approval of the Policy by shareholders.
Figure 13 shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends reinvested against the performance of the relevant indices for the last eight years.
Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June i. e. 1 June to Figure 11 30 June inclusive.
As the chart indicates, 100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2009 was worth 255 eight years later, compared with 230 Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2017 audited information for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index, and 326 for the same investment in the FTSE 250 index.
Outstanding voluntarily Outstanding restricted and deferred bonus 1 3 Beneficially owned matching share awards share awards Total interest in shares Figure 13 Total return performance chart to 30 June 2017 Executive Directors Mark Coombs 281,128,915 2,460,758 1,054,611 284,644,284 350 2 Tom Shippey 0 806,315 345,564 1,151,879 300 250 Non-executive Directors Clive Adamson 0 0 200 David Bennett 11,255 11,255 150 Simon Fraser 25,000 25,000 100 Peter Gibbs 50,000 50,000 Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 3,796 3,796 50 1.
Half of the restricted shares and matching 0 shares awarded in 2015 and 2016 are subject to performance conditions.
Ashmore Group FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index 3.
Source: Thomson Reuters Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards, which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
No performance-related restricted and matching or phantom share equivalent awards have vested during the periods shown.
The sums shown relate to dividends or dividend equivalents paid on share or phantom share awards.
Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
Figure 15 Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 to 2017 Metric 2017 2016 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group i. e. accounting cost 65.9 58.1 9.5% Average headcount 256 277 7.6% Distributions to shareholders dividends and or share buybacks 116.6 116.1 0.2% Statement on implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the year commencing 1 July 2017 The proposed Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM.
If approved, the Policy will apply to the performance years ending 30 June 2018, 2019 and 2020.
If shareholders do not vote approve the proposed Policy then the current Policy will continue to apply.
Under the proposed new Policy, the Committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration in the year ending 30 June 2018 as have been applied in the current period.
For long-term incentive awards half of any restricted shares, matching shares and their phantom equivalents, the Remuneration Committee intends to continue to apply the four performance conditions as in the prior period, these being relative TSR, subject to any changes to the peer group that may be necessary to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant, investment performance, assets under management and profitability.
7 72 2 AA sh sh m m oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R e e p p o o rr tt a an n d d A Acc cc o o u u n ntts s 2 20 01 17 7 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 14 Membership of the Remuneration Committee Chief Executive audited information The members of the Remuneration Committee are listed in the table below.
All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as defined Performance-related Percentage of restricted under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as 2009 100,000 12,175 7,000 119,175 Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Other executives may be invited to attend as the Remuneration Committee requests.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee received independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS consultants throughout the period from 1 July 2016 Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
NBS abides by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS fees for the year ending 30 June 2016 were 38,778.
The Company participates in the McLagan Partners compensation survey from Figure 15 which relevant data is provided to the Remuneration Committee.
Neither of the above provides other services to the Company.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 to 2017 Metric 2017 2016 % change Statement of shareholder voting At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group i. e. accounting cost 65.9 58.1 9.5% Average headcount 256 277 7.6% Figure 16 Distributions to shareholders dividends and or share buybacks 116.6 116.1 0.2% Shareholder voting Remuneration Report 2016 AGM resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report Statement on implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the year commencing 1 July 2017 for the year ended 30 June 2016 % of votes cast The proposed Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM.
If approved, the Policy will Votes cast in favour 515,559,732 87.21% apply to the performance years ending 30 June 2018, 2019 and 2020.
If shareholders do not vote approve the proposed Policy then the current Votes cast against 75,621,253 12.79% Policy will continue to apply.
Total votes cast 591,180,985 100.00% Under the proposed new Policy, the Committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same metrics and weightings to annual variable Abstentions 1,364,253 N A remuneration in the year ending 30 June 2018 as have been applied in the current period.
For long-term incentive awards half of any restricted shares, matching shares and their phantom equivalents, the Remuneration Committee Approval intends to continue to apply the four performance conditions as in the prior period, these being relative TSR, subject to any changes to the peer This Directors Remuneration Report including both the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration have been group that may be necessary to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant, investment performance, approved by the Board of Directors.
assets under management and profitability.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Simon Fraser Remuneration Committee Chairman 6 September 2017 72 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 AA sh sm hm oo re re G Gro ro uu pp p plc lc | A | Ann nn uu aa l R l R ee pp oo rt r a t a nn dd A Acc cc o o u u n n tt ss 2 20 0 1 17 7 7 7 3 3
