Nomination Committee Report SET Succession Planning and Leadership Needs of the Group We have a coherent Leadership Development strategy which The Group HR Director regularly presents to the Committee on ensures that our SET has the capabilities required to manage the the Companys succession planning and talent development business effectively, and our organisation has a strong breadth of programme.
A regular review of succession planning takes place candidates for key leadership positions.
across the Company, with a particular focus given to the SET In considering the Leadership needs of the Group, we have chosen succession.
The process of documenting the performance potential to focus on two key areas: axis across each functions top tier supports the decisions about the organisation design and structure.
The results of this review are Defining the current talent map of the organisation enabling us to presented to the Committee, who discuss the succession plan for share knowledge about our talent base, identify risks, gaps and the SET at least annually.
to plan development of our future talent.
For Executive Directors and the SET, plans are in place for sudden, Understanding the organisations current capability versus the unforeseen absences, for medium term orderly succession and for needs of the future strategic direction of the Group.
longer term succession as well as supporting significant acquisitions Through acquisitions, recruitment and internal promotion we now that require full time Dechra leadership during the integration phase.
have a stable and experienced SET, with clearly defined roles.
These plans are then used as the basis for personal development Dechra has increasingly focused on the centralisation of support plans for the identified employees and to ensure, looking forward, services, to allow the Business Unit leaders to focus their efforts on that we have the right people to deliver our strategy.
This has identified a gap in the SET and we The Committee has also discussed emergency succession planning, are currently recruiting for a Group Marketing Director to complete and is developing a framework to clearly identify individuals capable the team.
of covering key management roles on an interim basis.
All these Governance individuals will receive, or have received, the necessary coaching to Following an internal evaluation, further details of which are ensure they have the required skills to provide any critical support provided on page 72 of the Corporate Governance Report, the when needed.
Committee has concluded that each of the Directors seeking Over the last three years, one of the elements of our People Plan re-election continues to be an effective member of the Board.
At has focused on the continual development of the SET to provide the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Lawson Macartney and world class leadership to the Group as detailed on page 49.
We Richard Cotton, who were appointed to the Board on 1 December encourage regular contact between members of the SET and the 2016 and 3 January 2017 respectively, will offer themselves for Board, with all SET members presenting to the Board at least once election, and all of the remaining Directors will retire and offer a year, leading site visits of their respective businesses and attending themselves for re-election.
one-to-one sessions with Non-Executive Directors to discuss Tony Rice specific issues when applicable.
Nomination Committee Chairman 4 September 2017 Case Study: Tony Rice Induction Before I was appointed as Chairman of the Board in October My first Board meeting was held at the Sansaw site, where I had 2016, I served as a Non-Executive Director for six months.
the opportunity to meet with key members of the DVP EU sales This period of time gave me an excellent opportunity to get and marketing team and European regulatory team seeing first to know the Company and understand the business.
Michael hand the technical capability required to support the wide range Redmond, as the retiring Chairman, spent invaluable time with of products.
This gave me an opportunity to understand better me sharing his long standing experience of the Companys the market dynamics and marketing approach.
I was also able to history and established strategy, ensuring a smooth handover of learn about the various European regulatory processes and the responsibilities.
significant work required to take our products to market.
In my initial months, I had a series of conversations with Ian I have also visited the manufacturing facility in Skipton, which Page to help me understand his approach, priorities and how he provided me a better understanding of the approach to quality allocates his time, as well as the major milestones that led to the and integrity of batch production processes, and an appreciation success of Dechra and the evolution of the strategic drivers.
of the regulatory systems required to maintain FDA standards.
I have subsequently visited the manufacturing facilities at Bladel In addition, I have had many opportunities to meet with the SET, and Croatia.
both on a one-to-one basis as well as a collective.
This has enabled me to understand their areas of responsibility and the I have enjoyed my first year at Dechra and the induction provided various elements of the business.
This has included: has given me a better understanding of Dechra, its product development, registration and manufacturing process, and its the process of identifying and filtering new product routes to market utilising its experienced sales and marketing opportunities and the overall development of the product teams.
pipeline: and the key financial dynamics and priorities for the Company.
80 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 80 04 09 2017 14:00:26 Governance Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Ishbel Macpherson Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Incentive Outturns in 2017 As a result of the progress in our strategy, we have delivered underlying profit before tax during the year of 77.0 million, an improvement of I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year 38.4% at constant exchange rates 54.9% at actual exchange rates ended 30 June 2017. on the prior year.
Reflecting the performance of the Group in relation The report is divided into two sections: the Directors Remuneration to profit targets and the performance of Executive Directors against Policy, followed by the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Policy personal objectives as described on page 94, bonuses for the year sets out our forward looking policy for Directors remuneration and is equal to 92% of salary have been earned by Ian Page and Richard a replacement for the Policy approved in 2014, which had 98.32% of Cotton, and 90% earned by Tony Griffin.
votes cast in favour of it.
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides LTIP awards were granted to Ian Page and Tony Griffin in September details of the amounts earned in respect of the 2017 financial year and 2014 and are due to vest on 15 September 2017, subject to the how the Policy will be implemented in the 2018 financial year.
achievement of earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return Our existing Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP expires in 2018 and TSR performance conditions each applying to 50% of the awards and shareholders will be asked to approve a new Long Term Incentive Plan an underpin based on return on capital employed ROCE.
The awards at the Annual General Meeting.
Further information in relation to the are scheduled to vest: new LTIP is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: there is as to 100% of the TSR element 50% of the total award no increase in quantum under the new LTIP and we have introduced by reference to TSR performance reflecting upper quartile a two year post vesting holding period.
performance : and Our Directors Remuneration Policy as to 100% of the underlying diluted EPS element 50% of the The new Policy is proposed in the context of a significant change in the total award by reference to EPS performance reflecting that the scale of the business, with Dechras market capitalisation increasing compound annual growth in the underlying diluted EPS at 21.0% from approximately 600.0 million in 2014 to approximately 1.7 billion.
was above the maximum threshold of 13.0%.
This increase has taken place over a period when Dechra has become increasingly international, and a more complex organisation as its scale In aggregate, taking into account the ROCE underpin reflecting that the and geographical spread has significantly increased.
ROCE at 17.7% had not fallen below 15.0%, the LTIP awards vested as to 100%.
The Committee considers that the current remuneration framework continues to support effectively the delivery of our business strategy and the creation of shareholder value, as shown in the table on page 83.
Our new Policy is not a radical overhaul of the Policy approved in 2014.
The changes refine that Policy and take account of developments in best practice.
The changes are summarised in the introduction to the new Policy on page 84 and include the adoption of a post vesting holding period for LTIP awards and enhanced shareholding guidelines.
Our approach to the implementation of the Policy in the 2018 financial year, including our approach to performance measures for LTIP awards is described overleaf.
Stock Code: DPH 81 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 81 04 09 2017 14:00:26 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman continued The targets applying to the performance conditions are set to drive the Executive Director Remuneration Decisions in 2017 right behaviours and, in appropriate circumstances such as following the In accordance with our Policy, our normal approach to Executive Director acquisitions we undertook in the 2016 financial year, we adjust targets salary increases is that they will not exceed the range of increases upwards to ensure that they remain stretching but achievable.
As noted awarded to the wider workforce.
We explained last year that Ian Pages in the Directors Remuneration Report for the 2016 financial year, the salary has not changed since January 2014 and that we would review high level of growth for the three year performance period to June 2019 it during the 2017 financial year in light of the exceptional change in the reflected the impact of earnings from acquisitions that were not included scale and complexity of the Group since that last review, taking into in the 2016 base year, we recognise that for future LTIP awards the EPS account the Groups significant acquisitions and international expansion targets would need to be reduced to reflect a lower level of sustainable in the period.
In the last six years, revenue derived from the UK has fallen growth.
Accordingly, we have decided to decrease the EPS performance from 76% of total revenue in the 2012 financial year to 15.7% in the 2017 requirement for maximum vesting from 20% to 15.5% to reflect the fact financial year, whilst the average number of employees has increased that the acquisitions are now included in the base year and the lower by 31.8% over the same period.
Since 30 June 2014 our international 2020 financial year broker forecasts.
Full details of the performance sales operations excluding our export business have expanded from measures and the targets for the 2018 financial year are set out on page 14 countries 13 EU, 1 North America to 24 19 EU, 3 North America, 100.
This level of growth is higher than the original 13% CAGR required 2 Australasia as at 30 June 2017.
Ian has been instrumental in guiding for maximum vesting for the 2016 financial year LTIP awards.
We the Group through this period, having driven its growth and exceptional consider that 15.5% EPS growth per annum is a stretching target which performance since it listed.
Under Ians leadership, shareholders have should act as an appropriate incentive for executives to deliver sustained been provided with a stable investment that has delivered sustained and business performance without encouraging excessive risk.
Taking into account the fundamental contribution account comments received from shareholders, the underpin continues that Ian has made to this transformation and recognising the increase to operate on the basis of a ROCE floor of 10%.
However, to ensure in the scope and responsibilities of his role since his salary was last that management are not disincentivised from making shareholder value reviewed, we increased Ians salary with effect from September 2016 by enhancing acquisitions even if they have a short term impact on ROCE, 13.6% which is equivalent to the cumulative annual pay increases for a the underpin will now operate solely by reference to this floor: the details higher performer within the Group over the same period to 500,000. of the underpin are set out on page 100.
This increase positions his salary slightly below the mid-point of the market competitive range compared to companies of a similar size and The Link between our Directors Remuneration complexity.
Ian has notified the Committee that he does not wish to be Policy and our Strategy considered for a salary increase in respect of the 2018 financial year.
Dechras Policy is designed to promote the long term success of the During the annual salary review cycle, Tony Griffins salary was increased Group and to reward the creation of long term value for shareholders.
by 3% in respect of the 2017 financial year, broadly in line with the The performance targets for all incentive elements are designed to average range of increases awarded to employees throughout the Group.
reward high performance whilst not encouraging inappropriate business risks.
We granted LTIP awards in September 2016 subject to TSR and EPS performance conditions each applying to 50% of the awards with the The table on the next page describes how certain remuneration EPS target for maximum vesting increased for these awards to 20% elements are linked to our strategy.
A ROCE underpin continues to apply to each element.
Details of the awards are set out on page 98.
Directorate Changes Richard Cotton joined Dechra on 3 January 2017 and his remuneration arrangements were implemented as set out in last years Directors Remuneration Report.
As noted last year, Richard was granted two buyout awards in respect of incentives forfeited as a result of joining Dechra: details of those awards are set out on page 98.
Performance Conditions for LTIP Awards in 2018 Financial Year Current performance conditions are based on relative TSR and EPS.
The use of a relative TSR measure for Dechra presents challenges as it is difficult to determine an appropriate comparator group, and it can reward volatility which does not reflect Dechras track record of consistent growth over the previous five years.
We recognise, however, that some shareholders have a preference for a relative measure.
Therefore, for the 2018 financial year LTIP awards we propose to retain relative TSR but to recalibrate the weightings so that relative TSR will account for one third of each award, and EPS growth will account for two thirds of each award.
This recalibration provides a better line of sight for management and provides the best link to our strategy.
The use of a ROCE underpin ensures that the EPS measure will require the delivery of quality earnings, while the introduction of a two year holding period, along with our shareholding guidelines of 200% of salary, ensures that management are aligned with the long term interests of shareholders and the delivery of sustained performance.
82 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 82 04 09 2017 14:00:26 Governance Strategic Growth Driver and Link to our Key Remuneration Element Enabler Performance Indicators Sales Growth Annual Bonus Strong sales Our annual bonus incentivises the delivery of the long term strategy through the achievement of performance is required short term objectives.
a b c to maximise profit 90% of the opportunity is based on a stretching profit target which requires performance above Cash Conversion budget and market expectations to trigger the payment of a maximum bonus.
Strong cash conversion The balance of the bonus is based on the achievement of personal objectives which reflect the reduces liquidity risk priorities of the business, achievement of which is necessary to deliver the longer term strategy.
Underlying Diluted Long Term Incentive Plan EPS Growth The LTIP is designed to reward the generation of long term value for shareholders.
Performance measures reflect our long term objectives including sustainable profit growth and the enhancement Return on Capital a b c of shareholder value.
Awards are based two thirds on growth in EPS and one third on the delivery Employed of shareholder returns.
New Product Sales The application of a ROCE underpin ensures executives are focused on using capital efficiently This measure and appropriately to allow the business to capitalise on growth opportunities in new territories and encourages innovation, markets whilst maintaining returns.
growth and sustainability The introduction of a post vesting holding period aligns management with the long term interests of shareholders and the delivery of sustained performance.
Generation of Long Term Value for Shareholders Alignment of Interests The Policy is designed to promote long term Group success and to reward the generation of shareholder value.
A significant proportion of the remuneration opportunity is linked to the achievement of stretching performance targets.
The interests of shareholders and executives are aligned by formal shareholding guidelines.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of any shares acquired under the LTIP and, if relevant, any recruitment award after sales to cover tax until such time as their holding has a value equal to 200% of their base salary.
Forward Looking Subject to shareholder approval of the Policy at the Annual General Meeting, we will apply it in the 2018 financial year.
More information is given on page 100, and we have summarised key aspects below.
Salary: Executive Directors salaries for the 2018 financial year will be considered in September at the same time as the salary review for the wider workforce.
In line with our normal policy, any increase to Executive Directors salaries will be in line with the increases awarded to the wider workforce, although as noted above Ian Page has already notified the Committee that he does not wish to receive any increase.
Bonus: The Executive Directors bonus opportunity for the 2018 financial year under the new Policy will remain at 100% of salary, consistent with the existing Policy.
The bonus will be based on a mix of stretching profit before tax targets 90% of the opportunity and personal objectives 10% of the opportunity.
LTIP: Awards for the 2018 financial year will be granted under the new LTIP for which shareholder approval will be sought at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
In line with the new Policy, those awards will be subject to a two year post vesting holding period.
Shareholder Views We consulted with shareholders on the new Policy and LTIP and took account of feedback received before finalising our proposals.
The Committee and I believe that ongoing dialogue with our major shareholders is of key importance.
Should you have any queries in relation to this report, please contact me or the Company Secretary.
Ishbel Macpherson Remuneration Committee Chairman 4 September 2017 Stock Code: DPH 83 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 83 04 09 2017 14:00:27 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out Dechras Directors Remuneration Policy which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, shall take binding effect from the close of that meeting.
The Companys first Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting with 98.32% of votes in favour of it, and took effect following the close of that meeting.
In accordance with the applicable regulations, Dechra is required to seek approval for a new Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
During the course of the 2017 financial year, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Policy approved in 2014 in the context of Dechras strategy, developments in best practice and the forthcoming expiration of the Dechra Long Term Incentive Plan 2008.
A radical overhaul of the Policy is not proposed: however, we are proposing minor changes to the Policy as follows: To reflect typical practice, we have formalised the malus and clawback arrangements which apply to both the annual bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP within the Policy.
The shareholding requirement under our shareholding guidelines is now set at 200% of salary for all Executive Directors consistent with the level which applied previously for the Chief Executive Officer.
We have updated the guidelines and, in order to reflect typical practice, we have formally incorporated them within the Policy, as shown on page 87.
We have introduced a two year holding period after the vesting of LTIP awards for awards granted in respect of the Groups 2018 financial year and future years.
No significant changes are proposed to the Policy as it relates to salary, benefits although an allowance may now be provided in lieu of a company car, retirement benefits or annual bonus.
LTIP awards for the Groups 2018 financial year and future years will be made under the new LTIP for which shareholder approval is sought at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Policy has been updated to reflect the terms of the new LTIP and that the 2008 LTIP is now a legacy arrangement.
Other minor amendments have been made to the Policy to aid its administration, to reflect the changes referred to above and to reflect changes in practice since the Policy was first approved in 2014.
Policy Table for Executive Directors: Element: Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Core element of fixed remuneration reflecting the individuals role and experience.
Operation Performance measure The Committee ordinarily reviews base salaries annually taking into account a While no formal performance conditions apply, an individuals number of factors including but not limited to the value of the individual, their performance in role is taken into account in determining any skills and experience and performance.
The Committee also takes into consideration: pay increases within the Group more generally: and Group organisation, profitability and prevailing market conditions.
Maximum opportunity Whilst there is no maximum salary, increases will normally be within the range of salary increases awarded in percentage of salary terms to other employees in the Group.
However, higher increases may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as: on promotion or in the event of an increase in scope of the role or the individuals responsibilities: where an individual has been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical market salary to allow for growth in the role, in which case larger increases may be awarded to move salary positioning to a typical market level as the individual gains experience: change in size and complexity of the Group: and or significant market movement.
Such increases may be implemented over such time period as the Committee deems appropriate.
84 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 84 04 09 2017 14:00:27 Governance Element: Retirement Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Provide a competitive means of saving to deliver appropriate income in retirement.
Operation Performance measure The Company operates a Group Stakeholder personal pension scheme.
Tony Griffin participates in a defined benefit pension plan which has been established in the Netherlands.
This is a funded career average pay arrangement, where pensionable salary is subject to a 50,000 cap.
Pension contributions over this cap are paid into a defined contribution pension plan.
In appropriate circumstances, an Executive Director may receive a salary supplement in lieu of contributions to a pension scheme.
Maximum opportunity The Company contributes up to 14% of salary to a pension scheme on behalf of the Executive Directors, and or as a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions where appropriate.
Element: Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Provided on a market competitive basis.
Operation Performance measure The Company provides benefits in line with market practice and includes the Not applicable.
use of a fully expensed car or car allowance, medical cover and life assurance scheme.
Other benefits may be provided based on individual circumstances, which may include relocation costs and expatriate allowances.
Maximum opportunity Whilst the Committee has not set an absolute maximum on the level of benefits Executive Directors may receive, the value is set at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately positioned taking into account relevant market levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual circumstances.
Element: Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy The executive bonus scheme rewards Executive Directors for achieving financial and strategic targets in the relevant year by reference to operational targets and individual objectives.
Operation Performance measure Targets are reviewed annually and any pay-out is determined by the Committee Operational targets which may be based on financial or strategic after the year end based on targets set for the financial period.
measures and individual objectives are determined to reflect the Companys strategy.
The Committee has discretion to amend the pay-out should any formulaic output not reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance.
The personal objectives for the Chief Executive Officer are set by the Chairman.
The personal objectives for other Executive Recovery provisions apply, as referred to below.
Directors are set by the Chief Executive Officer.
The personal objectives are reviewed and endorsed by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is 100% of base salary.
At least 75% of the bonus opportunity is based on financial measures which may include profit before tax.
For financial measures, up to 15% of the maximum for the financial element is earned for threshold performance, rising to up to 50% of the maximum for the financial element for target performance and 100% of the maximum for the financial element for maximum performance.
Vesting of the bonus in respect of strategic measures or individual objectives will be between 0% and 100% based on the Committees assessment of the extent to which the relevant metric or objective has been met.
Stock Code: DPH 85 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 85 04 09 2017 14:00:27 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element: Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy The LTIP provides a clear link between the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the creation of value for shareholders by rewarding the Executive Directors for the achievement of longer term objectives aligned to shareholders interests.
Operation Performance measure LTIP awards for the Companys 2018 financial year and future years will be Performance measures under the LTIP will be based on financial made under the new LTIP for which shareholder approval is sought at the 2017 measures which may include, but are not limited to, earnings Annual General Meeting.
per share growth, relative total shareholder return, return on capital employed and free cash flow.
Under the new LTIP, the Committee may grant awards as conditional shares, as nil or nominal cost options, as forfeitable shares, as market value share Awards will vest as to 25% for threshold performance, options with a per share exercise price equal to the market value of a share increasing to 100% for maximum performance.
at the date of grant or as cash settled equivalents or may settle in cash a share award.
Other than in the case of Qualifying LTIP awards as referred to below, market value share options will not be granted to Executive Directors.
Awards will usually vest following the assessment of the applicable performance conditions, but will not be released so that the participant is entitled to acquire shares until the end of a holding period of two years beginning on the vesting date.
Alternatively, awards may be granted on the basis that the participant is entitled to acquire shares following the assessment of the applicable performance conditions but that other than as regards sales to cover tax liabilities the award is not released so that the participant is able to dispose of those shares until the end of the holding period.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect of shares which vest under the LTIP to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the period beginning with the date of grant and ending with the release date this payment may assume that dividends had been reinvested in Dechra shares on a cumulative basis.
Market value options may be granted under the LTIP as tax-advantaged Company Share Option Plan CSOP options, offering tax savings to the Group and the participant.
The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Qualifying LTIP Awards, consisting of a CSOP option and an ordinary nil-cost LTIP award, with the ordinary award scaled back at exercise to take account of any gain made on exercise of the CSOP option.
Recovery provisions apply, as referred to below.
Maximum opportunity The maximum award level under the LTIP in respect of any financial year is 200% of salary.
If a Qualifying LTIP award is granted, the value of shares subject to the CSOP option will not count towards the limits referred to above, reflecting the provisions for the scale back of the ordinary LTIP award.
86 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 86 04 09 2017 14:00:27 Governance Element: All Employee Share Plans Purpose and link to strategy Provision of the Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE to Executive Directors creates staff alignment with the Group and provides a sense of ownership.
Executive Directors may participate in such other all employee share plan as may be introduced from time to time.
Operation Performance measure Tax qualifying monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase of shares at a Not subject to performance conditions in line with typical market discount.
Any other all employee share plan would be operated for Executive Directors in accordance with its rules and on the same basis as for other qualifying employees.
Maximum opportunity The limit on participation and the permitted discount under the SAYE scheme will be those set in accordance with the applicable tax legislation from time to time.
The limit on participation under and other relevant terms of any other all employee share plan would be determined in accordance with the plan rules and, where relevant, applicable legislation and would be the same for the Executive Directors as for other relevant employees.
Recovery Provisions Malus and Clawback The annual bonus and LTIP are subject to recovery provisions as set out below.
Annual Bonus The annual bonus opportunity may be cancelled or reduced before payment malus in the event of material misstatement of Dechras financial statements, serious reputational damage to Dechra or gross misconduct on the part of the Executive Director.
For up to two years following the payment of a bonus, the amount paid may be recovered clawback in the event of material misstatement of Dechras financial statements or gross misconduct on the part of the Executive Director.
LTIP At any time prior to its vesting, an LTIP award may be cancelled or reduced malus in the event of a material misstatement of Dechras financial statements, serious reputational damage to Dechra, if an annual bonus award has paid out at a higher level than would have been the case but for a material misstatement or serious reputational damage, or in the event of gross misconduct.
For up to two years after the vesting of an LTIP award, it may be cancelled or reduced if it has not been exercised or the Executive Director may be required to make a payment to the Company in respect of some or all of the shares acquired clawback.
These clawback provisions may be applied in the event of material misstatement of Dechras financial statements or gross misconduct on the part of the Executive Director.
Malus and clawback may be applied to any CSOP option granted under the LTIP to the extent permitted by the applicable tax legislation.
Operation of Share Plans The Committee may amend the terms of awards and options under its share plans in accordance with the plan rules in the event of a variation of Dechras share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other similar event or otherwise in accordance with the rules of those plans.
Explanation of Performance Metrics Performance measures for the LTIP and annual bonus are selected to reflect the Companys strategy.
Stretching performance targets are set each year by the Committee taking into account a number of different factors.
Annual Bonus The Committee considers that the underlying profit before tax is closely aligned to the Groups key performance metrics: together with annual personal objectives linked to the achievement of strategic milestones, we consider that this encourages sustainable growth year by year.
LTIP The application of EPS and TSR targets to the LTIP aligns managements objectives with those of shareholders for the longer term.
The Committee may vary or substitute any performance measure if an event occurs which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that any such variation or substitution is fair and reasonable and in the opinion of the Committee the change would not make the measure less demanding.
If the Committee were to make such a variation, an explanation would be given in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
Shareholding Guidelines To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, the Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of any shares acquired under the LTIP and, if relevant, any recruitment award after sales to cover tax until such time as their holding has a value equal to 200% of salary.
Shares subject to LTIP awards which have vested but not been released that is which are in a holding period or which have been released but have not been exercised count towards the guidelines on a net of assumed tax basis.
Stock Code: DPH 87 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 87 04 09 2017 14:00:27 Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy Table for Non-Executive Directors: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Fees and benefits To provide fees within a market The fees of the Chairman are Fees are set taking into account competitive range reflecting the determined by the Committee the responsibilities of the role and experience of the individual, and the fees of the Non-Executive expected time commitment.
responsibilities of the role and the Directors are determined by the Non-Executive Directors are paid a expected time commitment.
Board following a recommendation basic fee with additional fees paid from both the Chief Executive for the chairing of Committees.
An Officer and the Chairman.
additional fee is also paid for the Non-Executive Directors are not role of Senior Independent Director.
eligible to participate in any of Where benefits are provided to the Companys share schemes, Non-Executive Directors they will be incentive schemes or pension provided at a level considered to be schemes.
appropriate taking into account the Non-Executive Directors may be individual circumstances.
eligible to receive benefits such as travel and other reasonable expenses.
Policy for the Remuneration of Employees More Generally: The Group aims to provide a remuneration package that is competitive in an employees country of employment and which is appropriate to promote the long term success of the Company.
The Company intends to apply this policy fairly and consistently and does not intend to pay more than is necessary to attract and motivate staff.
In respect of the Executive Directors, a greater proportion of the remuneration package is at risk and determined by reference to performance conditions.
The Companys SAYE scheme encourages share ownership by qualifying employees and enables them to share in value created for shareholders.
Illustrations of Application of Remuneration Policy: The following charts provide an illustration, for each of the Executive Directors, of the application for the 2018 financial year of the Policy.
The charts show the split of remuneration between fixed pay that is base salary, benefits and employer pension contributions salary supplement, annual bonus and long term incentive pay on the basis of minimum remuneration, remuneration receivable for performance in line with Dechras expectations and maximum remuneration not allowing for any share price appreciation.
Ian Page Richard Cotton Tony Griffin 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,124,000 2,000 2,000 2,000 47% 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,284,000 1,124,000 41% 24% 22% 917,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 715,000 31% 22% 560,000 624,000 18% 27% 13% 31% 409,000 500 500 25% 500 100% 56% 29% 345,000 25% 100% 57% 32% 100% 62% 38% 0 0 0 Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum performance in line with performance performance in line with performance performance in line with performance expectations expectations expectations Fixed Pay Fixed Pay Fixed Pay Bonus Bonus Bonus LTIP LTIP LTIP 88 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 88 04 09 2017 14:00:27 Total remuneration 000 Total remuneration 000 Total remuneration 000 Governance In illustrating the potential reward, the following assumptions have been made.
Annual bonus LTIP Fixed pay Minimum performance.
Base salary being the latest known salary as at 1 July 2017, employer Performance in line with Bonus equal to 50% of salary is LTIP vests as to 25% of the pension contributions at an assumed expectations.
maximum award 50% of salary rate of 14% on the latest known for Ian Page, 37.5% of salary for salary, and benefits as disclosed in the Richard Cotton and 25% of salary single figure table on page 92 for the for Tony Griffin.
2017 financial year less, in the case of Maximum performance.
Bonus equal to 100% of salary is LTIP vests in full 200% of salary Richard Cotton, a relocation allowance earned.
for Ian Page, 150% of salary for of 15,000 paid in the 2017 financial Richard Cotton and 100% of year and with the resulting figure then salary for Tony Griffin.
doubled to give an annual equivalent figure.
Recruitment Remuneration Policy When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Policy.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee may include other elements of pay which it considers are appropriate.
However, this discretion is capped and is subject to the limits referred to below.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Executive Director being appointed.
This may include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and or responsibilities, subject to good performance, where it is considered appropriate.
Pension will only be provided in line with the above Policy.
The Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments for example a guaranteed sign-on bonus.
Other elements may be included in the following circumstances: an interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short term basis: if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short term basis: if an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance.
Subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis: if the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Companys policy to allow reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments.
Any such payments will be at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period, vesting period and holding period of the annual bonus or LTIP, subject to the rules of the LTIP, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale will be clearly explained in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buyout awards as referred to below is 300% of salary.
The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards or payments on a comparable basis to the remuneration arrangements forfeited.
Any such payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above.
Buyout awards will ordinarily be granted on the basis that they are subject to forfeiture or clawback in the event of departure within 12 months of joining Dechra, although the Committee will retain discretion not to apply forfeiture or clawback in appropriate circumstances.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under Dechras ordinary share plans.
If necessary and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue in accordance with their terms.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
Stock Code: DPH 89 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 89 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Remuneration Report continued Policy on Service Contracts: Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out on page 101.
Whilst the Committees policy is for the service contract of any newly appointed Executive Director to have a notice period of not more than 12 months, the Committee retains discretion to set an initial notice period of up to 24 months, reducing to 12 months over the initial 12 months of employment.
Policy on Payment for Loss of Office: Individual Directors eligibility for the various elements of compensation is set out below: Provision Treatment upon loss of office Base Salary Fees Base salary fees and benefits including pension contributions or applicable salary supplement based on the duration of the notice period receivable from the Company.
Payments in Lieu of Notice The Company has discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice at any time after notice has been given by either the Company or the Director.
Such a payment would consist of basic salary for the unexpired period of notice and may also include benefits including pension contributions or applicable salary supplement for that period.
Annual Bonus This will be reviewed on an individual basis and the decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors including the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus payment would typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and paid at the usual time although the Committee retains discretion to pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances.
LTIP If an Executive Director ceases employment with the Group before an award under the new LTIP vests as a result of ill-health, injury, death, transfer of his employing entity out of the Group or any other reason, at the discretion of the Committee, the award will usually be released on the normal release date, although the Committee has discretion to permit the award to be released on cessation or at some other time such as following the end of the performance period.
In either case, the award will vest to the extent determined by reference to the relevant performance conditions and as reduced to reflect the period of time from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation as a proportion of the performance period.
If an Executive Director ceases employment for any reason after the vesting date of an award under the new LTIP but before it is released that is if he ceases employment during the holding period, that award will continue to subsist in accordance with the rules of the new LTIP unless the cessation is due to summary dismissal, in which case the award will lapse and will ordinarily be released at the normal release date, although the Remuneration Committee has discretion to release the award at the date of cessation.
The award will be released to the extent it vested by reference to the performance conditions.
If an Executive Director ceases employment for any reason after the release date of an award under the new LTIP, that award will continue to subsist in accordance with the rules of the new LTIP unless the cessation is due to summary dismissal, in which case the award will lapse.
Other Payments In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday pay, and outplacement and legal fees.
Options under the Companys SAYE scheme will vest on cessation in accordance with the plan rules, which do not allow for discretionary treatment.
Change of Control In the event of a change of control, unvested awards under the new LTIP will be released to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the extent of vesting so determined shall be reduced to reflect the proportion of the relevant performance period that has elapsed.
In the event of a change of control during the holding period relating to an award under the new LTIP, that award will be released to the extent it vested by reference to the performance conditions.
Options under the SAYE scheme will vest on a change of control.
Where appropriate the Committee would have regard to the departing Executive Directors duty to mitigate loss, except in the event of dismissal following a change of control of the Company.
Other than as described above, there are no express provisions within the Directors service contracts for the payment of compensation or liquidated damages on termination of employment.
Where a buyout or other award is made, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to compensation on termination of their appointment confined to three months remuneration.
90 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 90 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Governance Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Group The Committee does not formally consult with employees as part of its process when determining Executive Director pay.
However, as noted in the Policy table on page 84, the level of salary increases of employees within the wider Group is considered when setting base salary for Executive Directors.
The Committee is also kept informed of general decisions made in relation to employee pay and related issues.
Consideration of Shareholders Views The Committee believes that ongoing dialogue with major shareholders is of key importance.
During the 2017 financial year, the Committee consulted with shareholders in relation to the new policy and new LTIP, and our proposals have been finalised having regard to feedback received.
Legacy Remuneration Arrangements The Committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of payments were agreed: before the Policy came into effect provided that, in the case of any payments agreed on or after 24 October 2014 they are in line with the Policy approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting : or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the satisfaction of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed no later than the time the award is granted.
Any such payment shall include the satisfaction of any awards granted under the Dechra Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 and of the recruitment awards granted to Richard Cotton on 7 March 2017 as referred to on page 88 of Dechras Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 and as further described on page 98 of Dechras Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017.
The Committee may operate the Dechra Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 in accordance with its terms, including the ability to adjust awards as referred to on page 87.
Ishbel Macpherson Remuneration Committee Chairman 4 September 2017 Stock Code: DPH 91 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 91 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration The following section provides detail of remuneration earned by the Directors during the year in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 24 October 2014, along with details of how the Policy to be proposed to shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting will be applied in the 2018 financial year.
 LLP PwC have audited pages 92 to 101 unless indicated otherwise.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration for each person who has served as a Director in the period ended 30 June 2017.
Salaries & Fees this is the cash paid or received in respect of the relevant period.
Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid or received in respect of the relevant period.
The benefits provided include the use of a fully expensed car, medical cover and life assurance.
The amount for Richard Cotton includes a one-off relocation allowance of 15,000.
Annual Bonus this is the amount of cash bonus paid in respect of the financial year.
Long Term Incentives this is the value of any long term incentives vesting where the performance period ended in the relevant period.
Pension this is the cash value of the employer contribution to the Group stakeholder personal pension scheme or, in the case of Tony Griffin, defined contribution pension plan plus the value of any salary supplement paid.
The 2016 value assigned to the long term incentives for Ian Page, Tony Griffin and Anne-Francoise Nesmes was shown in last years Annual Report as an estimate, with the value determined by reference to a share price of 11.299 being the average market value of a share over the last quarter of the Companys financial period ended on 30 June 2016.
This has been restated to show the actual value determined by reference to a price of 12.92 being the market value of a share on 28 November 2016, the date of vesting.
Richard Cotton was appointed on 3 January 2017.
Tony Griffins remuneration is paid in Euros but reported in Sterling for the purpose of this table.
The exchange rate used for this purpose was 1.3432 for 2016 and 1.1681 for 2017.
His salary was 332,560 for 2017 reflecting two months at a salary of 324,449 and ten months at a salary of 334,182 and 311,949 for 2016 reflecting six months at a salary of 299,449 and six months at a salary of 324,449.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes resigned on 31 July 2016.
Tony Rice was appointed to the Board on 5 May 2016 and to the office of Chairman on 21 October 2016.
Michael Redmond retired on 21 October 2016.
Ishbel Macphersons fee increased to 58,000 from 43,000 on her appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the 2017 figure includes the increase in the base fee.
The fee increase in 2016 was pro-rated.
Lawson Macartney was appointed on 1 December 2016.
92 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 92 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Governance Additional Disclosures in Respect of the Single Figure Table Salaries and Fees As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report in the 2016 Annual Report, the Executive Directors base salaries were reviewed in September 2016 in order that the review is aligned with the performance development review calendar to provide a clearer link between performance and reward.
Following that review, Tony Griffins salary was increased by 3% to 334,182 with effect from 1 September 2016, broadly in line with the average range of increases awarded to employees in the wider Group.
Ian Pages salary was increased to 500,000 with effect from 1 September 2016, as referred to in the statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman on page 82.
Ian Page has notified the Committee that he does not wish to be considered for a salary increase in respect of the 2018 financial year.
The Committees approach to Executive Directors salaries for the year ending 30 June 2018 is summarised on page 100.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are paid a fee for their role.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee receive an additional fee for those roles.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report in the 2016 Annual Report, it had been agreed to increase the base fee from 40,000 to 50,000.
No changes were made to the additional fees and the fee for the Chairman for the year ended 30 June 2017.
The Non-Executive Directors fees for the years ended 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016 were determined on the following basis: 2017 2016 Fee Fee Office 000 000 Chairman 126 126 Non-Executive Director 50 40 Remuneration Committee Chairmanship additional fee 5 5 Audit Committee Chairmanship additional fee 5 5 Senior Independent Director additional fee 3 3 The Committees approach to the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees for the year ending 30 June 2018 is summarised on page 100.
Annual Bonus The Company operates an annual cash incentive scheme for the Executive Directors.
Annual bonuses were awarded by the Committee in respect of the 2017 financial year having regard to the performance of the Group and personal performance objectives for the year.
The amount achieved for the year ended 30 June 2017 against targets for the 2017 financial year is as follows: 2017 Financial Year Targets Amount Achieved for the Year Ended 30 June 2017 Underlying profit before tax performance: 10% of salary payable The underlying profit before tax target was 65.6 million.
Actual upon the achievement of 95% of Group profit target rising to 90% underlying profit before tax was 77.0 million.
This converted into an of salary payable upon the achievement of 110% of Group profit target.
achievement of 108% of the profit target when translated at constant exchange rate resulting in a payment worth 82% of salary.
Personal objectives: up to an additional 10% of salary was payable Actual performance resulted in payment worth 10% of salary for the to Executive Directors upon the achievement of personal objectives.
period for Ian Page and Richard Cotton and 8% of salary for Tony Griffin.
The objectives are based on key aspects of delivering the Groups strategy.
92% of salary for Ian Page and Richard Cotton and 90% for Total Annual Bonus Earned for the Year Ended 30 June 2017 Tony Griffin The Committee considers that the objectives for the forthcoming financial year 2018 are commercially sensitive as they give our competitors insight into our business plans and therefore are not detailed in this report.
Further information regarding the 2017 financial year personal objectives for each Executive Director and the performance achieved is given on the following page.
Stock Code: DPH 93 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 93 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Remuneration Report continued The personal objectives of each Executive Director for the year ended 30 June 2017 are set on an individual basis and are closely linked to the corporate, financial, strategic and other non-financial objectives of the Company.
This enables the Committee to reward the Executive Directors contribution to both the annual financial performance and the achievement of specific objectives.
A summary of the objectives is set out below along with a description of the performance against them.
The Committee reviewed the performance of each Executive Director against their specific objectives based on a report by the Chief Executive Officer and with respect to the Chief Executive Officer, a report by the Chairman.
Director Objective Performance Ian Page Pipeline Delivery Successful launch of Amoxi-Clav Portfolio Focus Development of vaccines strategy Acquisition Acquisition of business and assets of Apex Laboratories Pty Ltd and 33.0% stake in Medial Ethics Pty Ltd Geographical Expansion Establishment of Dechra Veterinary Products International Richard Cotton Onboarding Completed a rigorous induction Leadership of finance team Established as Leader of finance team and developed the treasury strategy Tony Griffin Portfolio Focus Companion Animal Product sales increased by 9.0% Geographical Expansion Key new territories performed in line with expectations Revenue Growth Strong sales growth in Italy and Poland Technology Enabler Implementation of the Oracle DVP EU ERP solution has fallen behind schedule and will now be completed during the 2018 financial year Based on the above assessment against objectives set, the Committee determined that the performance of Ian Page and Richard Cotton warranted maximum payout in relation to the non-financial elements of their respective bonuses.
Tony Griffin warranted a payout of 8% in relation to the non-financial elements of his bonus.
The Committees approach to Executive Directors annual bonus opportunities for the year ending 30 June 2018 is summarised on page 100.
LTIP Awards Vesting in Respect of the Year Ended 30 June 2017 The LTIP awards granted on 15 September 2014 are due to vest on 15 September 2017.
Ian Page and Tony Griffin were granted LTIP Awards on 15 September 2014, the performance targets for which are as follows: 50% of the award is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the performance period relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts over the performance period as follows: TSR performance Vesting percentage Below median 0% Median 25% of the TSR portion will vest Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata vesting between 25% and 100% based on the Companys ranking in the comparator group Upper quartile 100% of the TSR portion will vest 50% of each award is subject to a performance condition based on the growth in the Companys underlying diluted earnings per share EPS over the performance period as follows: EPS compound annual growth rate Vesting Percentage 8% CAGR 0% 8% CAGR 25% of the EPS portion will vest CAGR between 8% and 13% Pro-rata vesting between 25% and 100% 13% CAGR 100% of the EPS portion will vest Both the TSR element and the EPS element are subject to an additional return on capital employed ROCE performance measure.
Unless the Groups ROCE is 10% or more in the final year of the performance period, the awards will lapse in full regardless of TSR and EPS performance.
The percentage vesting will be reduced by 10% for every 1% that ROCE falls below 15%.
The Companys TSR performance was over 168.1% compared with a 64.7% TSR for the upper quartile company in the comparator group FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
Therefore 100% of the TSR element will vest.
In addition, the compound annual growth in the Groups underlying diluted EPS for the performance period was 21.0%.
Accordingly, 100% of the EPS element will vest.
Overall, taking into account that ROCE performance for 2017 was 17.7%, the LTIP awards will vest as to 100% of maximum opportunity.
In the single figure table on page 92, the value attributable to this award is calculated by multiplying the number of shares in respect of which the award is expected to vest by 17.741 being the average market value of a share over the last quarter of the Companys financial period ended on 30 June 2017.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes LTIP award granted on 15 September 2014 lapsed on 31 July 2016.
The details of the LTIP awards granted during the year ended 30 June 2017 are set out below.
The Committees approach to Executive Directors LTIP awards for the year ending 30 June 2018 is summarised on page 100.
94 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 94 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Governance SAYE Exercised During the Year Ended 30 June 2017 Date of Number of Option Exercise grant options price date Ian Page 7 April 2014 1,630 5.52 2 May 2017 The aggregate gain made by the Executive Directors on share options and LTIP awards exercised during 2017 was 2,872,032 2016: 1,803,017.
Pension Ian Page was a member of the Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Group Stakeholder personal pension scheme throughout the year, and Richard Cotton became a member of the scheme following his joining the Group in January 2017.
Tony Griffin is a member of a defined benefit pension plan in the Netherlands.
Contributions made by Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC on behalf of the Executive Directors during the year equated to no more than 14% of pensionable salary for each Executive Director.
The annual allowance for tax relief on pension savings for individuals earning over 150,000 per annum reduced from 40,000 to 10,000 on 6 April 2016.
Richard Cotton elected to receive a salary supplement in lieu of the employer contribution over and above the 10,000 limit for the entire period under review.
From 6 April 2016, Ian Pages pension savings reached the lifetime allowance and from this date he elected to receive his pension contributions as a salary supplement.
Tony Griffin is a member of the Basispensioen, a defined benefit pension plan established in the Netherlands.
The table below sets out the arrangements for Tony Griffin for the period under review.
Accrued benefit at 1 July 2016 10,940 Increase in accrued benefit excluding inflation allowance 11,631 Increase in accrued benefit including inflation allowance 12,086 Transfer value of benefit accrued during the period less member contributions 45,000 Transfer value at 1 July 2016 206,000 Transfer value at 30 June 2017 253,000 Increase in transfer value over the period after member contribution 47,000 The defined benefit pension plan is capped at 50,000.
Pensionable salary over this cap is paid into a defined contribution plan.
Following the implementation by the Dutch government of a reduction in the cap on maximum amount of pensionable income to 100,000, Tony Griffin elected to receive a salary supplement in lieu of the pension premium entitlement for earnings above 100,000.
This was effective from 1 January 2015.
The earliest date that a non-reduced pension is payable is 10 February 2040.
Stock Code: DPH 95 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 95 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Remuneration Report continued Total Shareholder Return TSR Graph The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company over the past eight financial years compared with the TSR over the same period for the FTSE 250 Total Return Index.
Throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2017 the Company has been a constituent member of the FTSE 250: for this reason it is considered that the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index is the appropriate comparator for this report.
indd 96 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Total Shareholder Return Index Governance Percentage Change in Chief Executive Officer Remuneration The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the percentage change in pay for Ian Page and the average percentage change for all UK based employees, comparing pay in respect of the year ended 30 June 2016 and the year ended 30 June 2017.
For these purposes, UK employees were chosen as a comparator group reflecting that Ian Page is UK based and the number of UK employees was sufficiently large to provide a robust comparison.
Employees outside the UK were not included in the comparator group since country specific differences could distort the comparison.
As referred to in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement on page 82, prior to September 2016 Ian Pages salary had not been increased since January 2014, since which date there has been an exceptional change in the scale and complexity of the Group.
The increase in Ian Pages salary between 2016 and 2017 should be viewed in this context.
Ian Page has elected to waive any increase in his salary for 2018.
Excludes SAYE options granted in the financial year.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback and total remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees comparing the year ended 30 June 2016 and the year ended 30 June 2017.
Year ended Year ended 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 000 000 % change Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback 19,973 16,865 18.4 Overall expenditure on pay 76,117 56,504 34.7 Stock Code: DPH 97 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 97 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Remuneration Report continued Long Term Incentive Arrangements and Share Schemes: LTIP Awards Made During the Year Ended 30 June 2017 Awards were granted to the Executive Directors on 19 September 2016, on the following basis: % of award Maximum Number of Face value vesting at Performance 1 Type of award opportunity shares at grant threshold period Nil cost option under the LTIP 200% of salary 73,260 999,999 25% 1 July 2016 Ian Page 30 June 2019 2 Tony Griffin Conditional award under the 100% of salary 20,858 284,712 25% 1 July 2016 LTIP 30 June 2019 1.
For these purposes, the face value of the award is calculated by multiplying the number of shares by 13.65 being the average share price used to determine the number of shares comprised in the awards.
The exchange rate used for this purpose was 1.1737 the exchange rate at grant.
50% of each award is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys TSR performance over the performance period relative to the constituent companies of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts over the performance period as follows: TSR performance Vesting percentage Below median 0% Median 25% of the TSR portion will vest Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata vesting between 25% and 100% based on the Companys ranking in the comparator group Upper quartile 100% of the TSR portion will vest 50% of each award is subject to a performance condition based on the growth in the Groups underlying diluted EPS over the performance period.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report in the 2016 Annual Report, following the acquisitions of Genera and Putney in 2016, we increased the EPS growth target required for maximum vesting, recognising the additional earnings forecasted, to 20% CAGR.
Accordingly, the EPS target is as follows: Original EPS compound annual growth rate Vesting percentage 8% CAGR 0% 8% CAGR 25% of the EPS portion will vest CAGR between 8% and 20% Pro-rata vesting between 25% and 100% 20% CAGR 100% of the EPS portion will vest Both the TSR element and the EPS element are subject to an additional ROCE performance measure.
Recruitment Award for Richard Cotton As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report for the 2016 financial year, as part of his recruitment, the Committee agreed to award Richard two buyout awards in respect of incentives forfeited as a consequence of joining Dechra.
Each award was over shares with a value of 350,000 at the date of grant.
The awards were granted on 7 March 2017 as follows: Number of shares Face value Type of award subject to award of award Performance condition Vesting date 1 2 Nil cost option 21,033 349,998 Performance in role 3 January 2018 1 2 Nil cost option 21,033 349,989 The performance conditions applying to the 15 September 2018 LTIP awards granted on 15 September 2015 1.
Either award may be reduced to take into account of any relevant performance conditions for the forfeited awards not being achieved.
For these purposes, the face value of the awards is calculated by multiplying the number of shares by 16.64 being the average closing mid-market price for the five dealing days preceding to the award date.
SAYE Options Granted in the Year No Directors were granted SAYE options during the year ended 30 June 2017.
Payments to Past Directors There were no payments made to past Directors during the period.
Payments for Loss of Office There were no payments for loss of office made to Directors during the period.
98 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 98 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Governance Shareholding Guidelines and Statement of Directors Shareholdings and Interests: Executive Directors In respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2017, the Companys shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors required that by the third anniversary of their appointment to the Board, Executive Directors are required to have acquired and retained a holding of Dechra shares equivalent to the value of at least 100% of their base salaries.
Thereafter, by the fifth anniversary of appointment, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are required to have acquired and retained a holding equivalent to the value of at least 200% and 150% respectively of their base salary.
The holdings of each person who served as an Executive Director during the period ended 30 June 2017 and their families as at 30 June 2017 or, if earlier, the date of resignation are as follows: Ordinary Ordinary Appointment shares shares % of Name date Number 000 salary Ian Page 13 June 1997 676,808 11,506 2,301.5 Richard Cotton 3 January 2017 12,837 218 62.4 Tony Griffin 1 November 2012 64,320 1,093 382.2 Anne-Francoise Nesmes 2 April 2013 39,502 525 162.7 Calculated using the share price as at 30 June 2017 or, if earlier, the date of resignation.
Non-Executive Directors By the third anniversary of their appointment to the Board, Non-Executive Directors are required to have acquired and retained a holding of Dechra shares equivalent to the value of at least 50% of their annual base fee.
The holdings of the Non-Executive Directors and their families as at 30 June 2017 or, if earlier, the date of retirement are as follows: Ordinary Ordinary Appointment shares shares % of Name date number 000 base fee Tony Rice 5 May 2016 40,000 680 539.7 Ishbel Macpherson 1 February 2013 5,848 99 198.8 Julian Heslop 1 January 2013 10,000 170 340.0 Lawson Macartney 1 December 2016 Michael Redmond 19 April 2001 73,417 1,088 800.0 Calculated using the share price as at 30 June 2017 or, if earlier, the date of retirement.
There have been no changes in the holdings of the Directors between 30 June and 4 September 2017.
Number of shares as at 30 June 2017, or at the date of leaving if earlier.
These awards are Recruitment Awards granted to Richard Cotton as referred to on page 98.
They were granted outside the rules of the LTIP.
These awards lapsed on 31 July 2016.
Stock Code: DPH 99 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 99 04 09 2017 14:00:28 Directors Remuneration Report continued SAYE Scheme Options held under the SAYE Scheme by each person who was served as a Director during the year ended 30 June 2017 are shown below: Number of options at 30 June or, if Date of earlier, date of Option Exercise grant resignation price date Ian Page 13 October 2014 1,465 6.14 December 2017 1 Anne-Francoise Nesmes 13 October 2014 1,465 6.14 December 2017 1.
This options lapsed on 31 July 2016.
Implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy in the Year Ending 30 June 2018 Unaudited : Subject to approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Directors Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 84 to 91 will be implemented in the year ending 30 June 2018, as set out below.
Salary and Fees The next review of Executive Directors salaries will be undertaken in September 2017.
It is planned that the Executive Directors salaries for 2017 will increase in line with the range of increases proposed for the wider workforce, although Ian Page has notified the Committee that he does not wish to be considered for a salary increase in respect of 2018 financial year.
No changes will be made to the fee for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the year ending 30 June 2018.
There will be no changes to the additional fees.
Annual Bonus No changes have been made to the bonus structure.
Consequently Executive Directors will have a bonus opportunity of 100% of salary for the year ending 30 June 2018, on the same basis as for the year ended 30 June 2017.
Details of the bonus structure can be found on pages 93 and 94.
In the opinion of the Board, the performance targets applying to the annual bonus are commercially sensitive, and prospective disclosure could provide competitors with insight into the Groups business plans and expectations.
However, the Company will disclose how any bonus earned relates to performance against targets on a retrospective basis when the targets are no longer considered commercially sensitive, as shown on pages 93 and 94 in respect of bonuses for the Groups 2017 financial year.
LTIP The Committee proposes that LTIP awards for the year ending 30 June 2018 the 2018 Grant will be made at the level of 200% of salary for Ian Page, 150% for Richard Cotton and 100% of salary for Tony Griffin.
The performance measures for the awards will be based on TSR one third and EPS two thirds, with an underpin based on ROCE.
The TSR targets will be the same as for the awards made in the 2017 financial year, details of which can be found on page 94.
As referred to on page 82, the EPS growth target required for maximum vesting for the 2018 Grant has been decreased to 15.5% CAGR to reflect the fact that the acquisitions are now included in the base year and to reflect the lower 2020 financial year broker forecasts.
Accordingly, the EPS targets for the 2018 Grant are: EPS compound annual growth rate Vesting percentage 8% CAGR 0% 8% CAGR 25% of the EPS portion will vest CAGR between 8% and 15.5% Pro-rata vesting between 25% and 100% 15.5% CAGR 100% of the EPS portion will vest Both the TSR element and the EPS element will be subject to an additional ROCE performance measure.
Unless the Companys ROCE is 10% or more in the final year of the performance period, the awards will lapse in full regardless of TSR and EPS performance.
Subject to its approval by shareholders, the Awards in respect of the 2018 Grant will be granted under the new LTIP for which shareholder approval is sought at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The awards will ordinarily be subject to a two year post vesting holding period.
Consideration by Directors of Matters Relating to Directors Remuneration: Governance The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups Remuneration Policy and the setting of the Non-Executive Directors fees, although the task of determining and monitoring the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and agreeing the Chairmans fee level has been delegated to the Committee.
Membership Details of each members attendance at the Committees meetings is detailed on page 68.
The Chief Executive Officer attended all meetings held during the financial year in order to assist on matters concerning remuneration of other senior executives within the Group.
However, he was not present during the part of the meetings where his own remuneration was discussed.
Furthermore, the Group HR Director has attended all meetings held during the financial year.
100 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
