Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee We have also made important progress on a range of strategic initiatives that will drive future growth.
The Committee considers that these results have been the result of a strong performance from our leadership team.
Through a consistent focus on putting the needs of our clients first, our Directors have delivered results to the benefit of the Company and our shareholders and this has been reflected in their remuneration for the year.
Review of Remuneration Policy Over the last year, we have been examining our approach to remuneration.
Our purpose has been to simplify our incentives and ensure that how we pay is more closely aligned with the performance of the Executive Directors and the value we deliver to our clients and shareholders.
Relentless focus on our clients and their needs, combined with an ability to get things done, are two key elements in our success.
The challenge for the Executive Directors is to balance the delivery of our service standards in a fast growing business with our desire to both maintain our scalable operating platform and invest in further long-term growth opportunities.
This balance of short-term performance with longer-term investment and growth has been Dear shareholder, central to the debate within the Remuneration Committee over the I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report for 2017. last year.
Our objectives for the new policy have been to incentivise in a similarly balanced manner across both the short and long-term, During this year, the Committee has continued to evolve our enabling us to reward strong stewardship of the business today and approach to executive remuneration.
In last years report we for the future and to align executives interests with those of described changes in the way we were applying our current shareholders over the longer term.
Remuneration Policy notably the decision not to make further awards under our existing LTIP.
We have further developed our The Committee recognised that the previous Long Term Incentive approach, culminating in the revised Remuneration Policy now Plan was not as effective in achieving this outcome as had been being presented for approval.
The scheme did not result in directors building up a long term shareholding and hence long term alignment with This year has also seen a number of changes to our executive shareholders.
Furthermore, the scheme did not act as an incentive, leadership, with the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer had no retentive draw and did not influence behaviour.
The CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, and so the Committee has Committee concluded that the proposed Sustained Performance sought to determine appropriate packages for these individuals.
Plan would enhance the alignment of directors with shareholders.
Business context in 2017 We have listened to the external debate on the structure of As discussed in the Strategic report, this year has seen a strong executive remuneration, and have noted the conclusions of the performance across our business.
While asset gathering was Investment Association Executive Remuneration Working Group in impacted during a period of weak investor confidence during the June 2016, as well as the recent BEIS Select Committee Report that first half of the year, we still increased our market share in both the alternatives to typical LTIPs may be used where more appropriate.
platform and share dealing markets.
The breadth of our offering This, combined with our own consideration of what is most then allowed us to deliver significant growth during a period of appropriate for this organisation, has led to us wanting to simplify improving confidence in the second half of the year.
Our marketing our approach to long-term incentives.
efforts on the back of the launches of the CF Woodford Income We have delivered this balance through retaining an annual Focus Fund and our HL Select UK Income Shares Fund, the new performance bonus with a strong focus on rewarding short-term higher ISA allowance from April 2016, the launch of our Lifetime ISA performance and through greater deferral of annual bonuses into and further development of our digital marketing presence, all Hargreaves Lansdown shares, a proposed new approach to increased flows into the business, meaning that we have increased long-term incentives and by increasing the minimum shareholdings our client base, the value of assets under administration, and our which our Executive Directors will need to build.
Importantly, client service standards were maintained throughout the period.
This growth has translated into a strong financial performance, with net revenues and profit up year-on-year.
56 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We propose to: Remuneration outcomes for 2017 The Committee considered in detail the Groups performance over Adopt a new five year Sustained Performance Plan to replace our the year in determining the level of bonuses to be awarded to three year LTIP.
Under this plan, executives will receive a executives.
At a Group level, this reflected above-target conditional award of nil cost options with a face value of up to performance for growth measures, on-target performance for client half times base salary each year, subject to underpinning measures and below-target delivery of strategic goals.
Performance performance conditions measured over five years: in comparison, against individual objectives has also been considered.
In light of the previous LTIP had a maximum grant of two and a half times the strong financial performance for the year and reflecting base salary albeit of market priced options: achievements against the targets set, bonuses have been awarded Reduce the maximum annual bonus payable under the policy at an above-target level.
from five times base salary to three and a half times base salary The bonuses paid to each Executive Director have been pro-rated to and increase the level of deferral from 30% to 40% of any bonus reflect their time in role.
For Ian Gorham, his bonus is based on his earned.
This deferral will be wholly in nil cost options: and seven months as CEO.
Chris Hills bonus has been determined to Increase the minimum shareholding guideline for our Executive reflect the periods of the year spent as CFO, Deputy CEO and CEO.
Directors from two times base salary to three times base salary, Philip Johnsons bonus has been pro-rated to reflect the time he has to be built up over six years.
been with the business in the year.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chairman of the Committee Further details as to how bonuses have been determined are set routinely engage with shareholders on matters of remuneration, to out in the annual report on remuneration.
listen to and take into account their views.
This activity was The Committee has reviewed the performance criteria set for the increased in the year given our review and, as a result of this 2014 LTIP grant and has determined that none of the awards will engagement with shareholders on the proposed changes, the vest over the three year period ending 30 June 2017. maximum annual bonus opportunity for Directors was further reduced from an original proposal of four times salary to three and Contents of this report a half times salary and the minimum shareholding requirement was On the following pages we set out: increased from two times to three times base salary.
Our revised Directors Remuneration Policy which we will be Further details of these changes are set out in our revised asking shareholders to approve at our AGM on 11 October 2017: Remuneration policy.
and The Committee continues to be satisfied that the structure of the The annual report on remuneration.
This will be subject to an remuneration package ensures appropriate consideration is given advisory vote at the AGM.
to environmental, social and governance issues, does not incentivise inappropriate risk taking and will continue to ensure that An additional vote will be held to approve the new Sustained there is no reward for inappropriate behaviour demonstrated by any Performance Plan.
I commend this report and our revised Remuneration Policy to you for approval.
Executive Director changes As previously announced, Ian Gorham stepped down as CEO in February 2017.
He will remain with the Group until 30 September Christopher Barling 2017 to ensure a smooth transition, and his existing conditions of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee employment will continue in accordance with his service contract until this date.
Mr Gorhams bonus for this year has been pro-rated 14 August 2017 to reflect the period for which he was in post as CEO.
Full details of this, and his remuneration for the year are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Chris Hill was subsequently appointed as CEO and Philip Johnson as CFO.
Chris Hills base salary on appointment was 600,000 per annum and Philip Johnsons was 425,000 per annum.
Neither base salary will be increased from 1 July 2017.
No awards were granted to Philip Johnson on joining.
57 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy The tables below summarise the main elements of the remuneration The Companys policy is designed to ensure that remuneration package for Directors and will be effective from the date approved supports the Companys strategic objectives, is appropriately by shareholders in 2017 until shareholders next consider and vote positioned against the external market, and provides fair rewards on the policy intended to be three years from the date of approval.
which will attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre required to run a group of the scale and complexity of Hargreaves Lansdown.
The policy is divided into separate sections for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors Component Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity purpose and link tostrategy Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with any increase usually effective from No prescribed maximum Reflects the individuals 1 July.
responsibilities, experience Base salaries are set taking into account a range of factors including external and contribution.
remuneration levels and remuneration levels within the Group, as well as an Supports the recruitment individuals responsibilities, experience and contribution.
and retention of the calibre Base salary will ordinarily increase by no more than the average of relevant staff of individuals required to increases.
Any increase beyond this would only be made in exceptional lead the Company.
circumstances, which would be explained by the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Performance The level of Annual Performance Bonus payable is linked to key financial metrics The maximum bonus Bonus as well as corporate and individual performance against objectives.
opportunity for Directors Rewards achievement ofthe under the policy is three and a The on-target bonus for each Director as a percentage of base salary will be Groups business plan, key half times base salary in disclosed in advance in the Annual Report on Remuneration for each year.
performance indicators and respect of the relevant the personal contribution Performance will be assessed against a combination of financial growth, financial year.
non-financial and individual measures over a one-year period.
There is no The aggregate value of prescribed weighting of particular metrics, but financial performance is central Aligns the interests of bonuses payable to all to the decision-making process.
Directors with those of members of the Executive shareholders.
In assessing the overall performance outcome, the Remuneration Committee Committee including the will use its judgement to consider: Executive Directors is capped at 5% of profit beforetax for The extent to which market movements, investor sentiment, interest rates that year.
and regulation, all of which are beyond the control of the Directors, have impacted the performance.
This may result in either reductions or increases in the rewards that would otherwise have been granted: The extent to which management has operated within the agreed risk parameters: and The extent to which the bonus outcome reflects the overall performance of the business in the context of shareholder experience.
40% of the Annual Performance Bonus is subject to compulsory deferral into nil cost options for a period of three years.
Dividend alternatives will accrue on deferred awards and will be paid at the time of vesting.
At the discretion of the Committee, the immediately payable element ofthe Annual Performance Bonus may be paid as cash or as an additional employer pension contribution.
Any unvested deferred awards are subject to a formal malus mechanism.
The non-deferred element of bonus awards are subject to clawback for threeyears from the date of award.
58 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Component Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity purpose and link tostrategy Sustained Annual awards of nil cost options will vest over a five year period, subject to the The maximum award each PerformancePlan achievement of underpinning performance conditions over the vesting period.
year under the Policy is half Aligns the interests of times base salary.
The grant of awards will be subject to satisfactory personal performance of each Directors with those of Director in the period prior to grant.
The underpinning performance conditions shareholders and rewards applicable for each award will be disclosed upfront in the remuneration report.
long-term stewardship of the Company.
Dividend alternatives will accrue on unvested awards and will be paid at the time of vesting.
Any unvested awards will be subject to a formal malus mechanism.
Shareholding guideline Directors have six years from appointment to the Board to achieve a Not applicable.
Aligns the interests of shareholding with a minimum value of three times base salary.
management and Vested but unexercised nil cost options under the annual performance bonus are shareholders in the success included in the calculation of a Directors shareholding.
Unvested nil cost options of the Group.
under the Sustained Performance Plan and previous LTIP are not included.
Pension Pension provision is provided in line with the pension provision for all staff.
A defined contribution Provides adequate pension pension arrangement is Any changes made to the staff arrangements will be carried across to the saving arrangements for provided for all employees, Directors.
with an employer contribution The Committee may amend the form of any Directors pension arrangements in of 5% of base salary.
response to changing pension legislation or similar developments, so long as Where employees make any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a Directors additional contributions of pension provision by any greater percentage than the increase to the provision over 5% of salary, these will be for all other staff.
double matched by the All staff and Directors may waive an element of their Annual Performance Bonus Company to a maximum value in return for a corresponding employers contribution into their pension.
The Company will pay a cash allowance in place of an employer pension Any contribution paid as a contribution where a Director has reached the Lifetime Allowance or would result of waiver of the cash exceed the annual limit or has opted out where they have elected to protect their element of an Annual Lifetime Allowance.
Performance Bonus will not be counted towards these maxima and will not attract matched funding.
Benefits All eligible staff and Directors may take up a range of benefits.
The maximum value of An across the board benefits will depend on the Where costs are necessarily incurred in the performance of duties on behalf of benefits package is cost of the provision of those the Company, those costs will be reimbursed in full, e. g. travel, accommodation, available both to staff and benefits.
subsistence, relocation, and any tax and social costs arising.
There are a number of Provision of tax efficient benefits such as pension contributions, additional variables and unknowns holiday, childcare vouchers and workplace parking is available through a salary impacting the maximum sacrifice mechanism.
payable in the event of Group life insurance and Group permanent health insurance is provided to all relocation: however, the staff with greater than six months continuous service.
Committee would approve nomore than is necessary All eligible staff as defined by the scheme rules and which includes Executive insuch situations.
Directors may participate in the Save As You Earn scheme or Share Incentive Plan.
Appropriate Director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the Company.
Some Company services are provided at a reduced cost on the same basis as for all other employees.
59 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Changes from previous policy Approach to recruitment remuneration The following changes have been incorporated within the The Committee will set a remuneration package for new Executive Remuneration Policy compared to the previous policy approved by Directors determining the individual elements of the package and shareholders on 24 October 2014: the total package, taking account of the skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for the role, and remuneration levels Base salary we have now stated that this will ordinarily increase across the Group, respecting maximum levels for variable pay by no more than the average of relevant staff increases.
Any referred to in the appropriate policy table.
increase beyond this would only be made in exceptional circumstances, which would be explained by the Remuneration Additional cash and or share-based awards on a one-off basis may Committee.
Previously there was no formal link to the average of be made as deemed appropriate by the Committee if the relevant staff increases: circumstances require taking into account pay or benefits forfeited by a Director on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee has Annual bonus the maximum opportunity has been reduced the discretion to make such awards under the Unapproved Share from five times base salary to three and a half times base salary.
Option Plan 2012 or the Sustained Performance Plan and in excess A commitment has been made to a higher level of disclosure, of the salary limits contained therein, or as permitted under Rule including advance disclosure of on-target bonus opportunities as 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules which allows companies to make one-off a percentage of salary: share awards in exceptional circumstances, including recruitment.
Annual bonus deferral the level of deferral required has Such awards will, as far as possible, maintain consistency with the increased from 30% to 40% of total bonus.
Deferral is now wholly awards forfeited in terms of type of reward shares or cash, into nil cost options whereas previously it could optionally be expected value, time horizons and whether they were subject to deferred entirely into cash: performance criteria.
Other payments may be made for relocation expenses, recruitment from abroad, legal costs, other costs or Sustained Performance Plan under this new plan, annual benefits forfeited by an individual being recruited.
No of payment awards of nil cost options of up to half times base salary will be made on appointment will be deemed to be included within the granted, with a five year vesting period.
This replaces the aggregate Executive bonus cap calculation.
previous LTIP under which market value options of up to two and a half times base salary with a vesting period of three years were Service agreements and loss of office payments granted annually until 2015: All Executive Directors have a service contract which reflects the Shareholding guideline has increased from two times base approved policy in force at the time of appointment.
The service salary under previous policy to three times base salary: contracts for all Directors in post are available for viewing on the giving of reasonable notice at our registered office during normal Pension employer pension contributions will be increased from business hours and both prior to and at the AGMeeting.
Under the 4% to 5% of salary for all employees from 1 October 2017.
A new terms of the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are matching arrangement for employee pension contributions will subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
also apply from this date: and Our policy is that service contracts do not have a specific duration The section of the policy entitled Special arrangements for but may be terminated with 12 months notice from the Company or Founding Executive Directors has been removed from the policy the Executive Director.
as Peter Hargreaves is no longer a member of the Board.
The service contracts contain no provision for liquidated damages Legacy arrangements for compensation on termination, except for those set out in the For the avoidance of doubt, this Directors Remuneration Policy table below.
The service agreements contain provisions for includes authority for the Group to honour any commitments payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary and pension entered into before the Directors Remuneration Policy came contributions, but these are at the Companys sole discretion.
The Committee has a policy framework for payments for loss of office by an Executive Director, both in relation to the service Changes in legislation or regulation contract and incentive pay, which is summarised opposite.
The Authority is given for the Group to comply with all prevailing approach of the Company on any termination is to consider all legislation and statutory regulation both current and future, relevant circumstances, including the recent performance of the makingthe minimum changes to this policy in order to comply.
Executive Director, and to act in accordance with any relevant rules or contractual provisions.
60 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Nature of termination By Executive Director or By Company summarily.
Good leaver: leaving by reason of death, ill health, Company giving notice injury or disability, redundancy, retirement with the excluding special agreement of the Committee, the sale of employing circumstances.
business or company, or other special circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
Base salary, pension Paid until employment Paid until employment Paid until employment ceases or for notice period and benefits ceases.
subject to mitigation depending on the reason forcessation.
Discretion for Company to pay salary, pension and benefits in a single payment or in monthly instalments.
Annual bonus No entitlement to annual No entitlement to annual Cessation during the financial year or after the bonus for that financial bonus for that financial financial year end, but before payment date, may year.
result in bonus being payable subject to performance pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Deferred bonus award Deferred bonus awards Deferred bonus awards Vested unexercised, and unvested deferred bonus lapse when employment lapse when employment awards, may vest and be exercised in accordance ceases.
Committee has discretion to determine awards which vest when employment ceases.
Vested unexercised, and Vested unexercised, and Awards vest in accordance with original terms or LTIP awards unvested long-term unvested long-term Committee may determine awards to vest early incentive awards lapse incentive awards lapse subject to performance at the date when when employment ceases.
In either case, the Committee will pro-rate award to reflect performance period that has been worked, except in the case of serious ill health or death when no pro-rating will apply.
Sustained Within first three years of Vested unexercised, and Within first three years of award, unvested awards Performance Plan award, unvested awards unvested SPP awards lapse will vest in accordance with the original terms, on a SPP awards lapse when employment when employment ceases.
pro-rata basis for the period of time served as a ceases.
proportion of the initial three years, subject to achievement of the performance underpins.
After three years from awards, unvested awards After three years from awards, unvested awards will will continue to vest in full continue to vest in full on the original terms subject on the original terms to achievement of the performance underpins.
subject to achievement of the performance underpins.
Possible disbursements such as legal costs, outplacement services and the cost of a settlement agreement.
Provisions on a takeover and other corporate events Deferred bonus awards and outstanding LTIP and Sustained In the event of a takeover or other corporate event, the Committee Performance Plan awards will vest at that time subject to shall determine the amount if any of any bonus payable taking into satisfaction of the applicable performance conditions and pro-rated account any applicable performance targets that have been to reflect the length of the performance period which has been achieved and any such factors as it considers appropriate given the worked with the Committee having discretion not to pro-rate or to curtailed performance period.
reduce pro-rata if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine with the agreement of the acquiring company that awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
61 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy The mid-point amount is the amount the Executive Director will The Committee discloses each year in the Groups annual report a bar receive if they achieve an on-target bonus level and awards under chart that models the potential remuneration for each of the Executive the Sustained Performance Plan vest in full.
It will include both fixed Directors for the forthcoming year using a range of assumptions.
The and variable components of remuneration: and chart shows the potential value of the current Executive Directors The maximum level is the maximum amount of remuneration each remuneration for the forthcoming year for three scenarios: minimum, Executive Director can be awarded in the year.
The maximum is maximum and mid-point scenario as follows: subject to the remuneration caps that have been established for The minimum amount represents the unconditional components of the each component.
remuneration package: salary, pension and employee benefits: Chris Hill remuneration opportunity for 2017 2018 Philip Johnson remuneration opportunity for 2017 2018 Fixed, , Fixed, , Annual Bonus Annual Bonus % % SPP SPP, , , , , , %, , , , % % %, , , , % %, , , , % % % % % % MinimumMid-point Maximum MinimumMid-point Maximum Non-Executive Directors Component Purpose Operation Basic fee The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors basic fees are reviewed annually by those responsible.
Supports the attraction and retention of Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 July.
high performing individuals, considering both the market value of the position and The fee levels are set taking into account market data for comparable positions, taking account of the individuals skills, experience and the time commitment required for the role.
All Non-Executive Directors fees including those below are paid in cash on a quarterly basis.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension, or to participate in any Group employee share plan.
Committee chairman and Each Non-Executive Director receives an additional fee for each committee for which they are chairman or a member.
committeemember fees Recognises the additional time The committee chairman fees reflect the additional time and responsibility in chairing a committee commitment and responsibility involved of the Board, including time spent in preparation and liaising with management, and the time in chairing or being a member of a spent attending and preparing for a committee of the Board.
The committee member fees reflect committee of the Board.
the additional time and responsibility in holding that role.
The SID receives an additional fee for his or her role.
Senior Independent Director SID fee The fee reflects the additional time and responsibility in fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Recognises the additional time Director.
commitment and responsibility involved in holding the role of the SID.
Benefits and expenses Expenses may be claimed by the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in line with the To appropriately reimburse the Chairman Companys expenses policy.
and Non-Executive Directors for out of Appropriate Director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the Company.
pocket expenses incurred in the fulfilment of their responsibilities and any tax and Some Group services are provided at a reduced cost, on the same basis as for all other employees.
No other benefits are made available to Non-Executive Directors.
62 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The maximum aggregate remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Consideration of shareholder views is set in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee recognises that Director remuneration is an area of particular interest to our shareholders and in setting and On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, considering changes to remuneration it is critical that we listen to the Committee will set the fee level consistent with the approved and take into account their views.
policy at the time of appointment having due regard to remuneration paid for comparable positions, taking account of the The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation time commitment required for the role.
to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are contracted under a other meetings with shareholders, is then considered as part of the letter of appointment.
These letters of appointment cover the terms Companys annual review of the Remuneration Policy.
of their appointment, including the time commitment expected.
Each appointment is for an initial fixed term of three years from the We also regularly engage with our largest shareholders to ensure commencement date subject to election by shareholders at the first we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration AGM following their appointment and annual re-election thereafter.
When any material changes are made to the policy, the Committee will discuss these in advance with our major Either party may terminate the appointment upon three calendar shareholders wherever practical.
The Committee will also consult months written notice and the Company may do so with immediate with professional advisers to ensure we consider current market effect subject to a payment in lieu of notice.
Should termination and industry practices, where appropriate.
arise as a result of a resolution of shareholders in general meeting, or as a result of a failure to be re-appointed by the shareholders, Non-Executive Directors will not be entitled to receive any fees in respect of any period after the termination date.
No compensation is payable on termination, other than for accrued fees and expenses.
The letters of appointment for all Directors in post are available for viewing on the giving of reasonable notice at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
General External Board appointments The Company recognises that external Non-Executive Directorships are beneficial to both the Director and the Company and that its Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit the Company.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept a maximum of two non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided that appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Consultation with employees While the Committee does not consult directly with employees in respect of the Directors remuneration, it does consider the wider salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions across the wider employee population when setting the Remuneration Policy for Directors.
63 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions Activities during the year included: ofthe Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Reviewing the Directors remuneration report in the 2016 Annual Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
It also meets the Report, and considering all of the feedback received from requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the institutional shareholders: Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Remuneration Committee confirms throughout the financial year that the Company has Considering a formal assessment of risk performance in relation complied with these governance rules and best practice provision.
to remuneration: Agreeing the termination arrangements for the departing Chief Role of the Remuneration Committee Executive Officer: The Board remains ultimately accountable for executive Agreeing the remuneration package for the new Chief Executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to the Officer and Chief Financial Officer: Remuneration Committee.
Reviewing and agreeing performance bonuses for the Executive The Remuneration Committee is therefore responsible for Directors: determining the Remuneration Policy for the remuneration of the Overseeing a committee which decided the base salary levels Executive Directors of the Company and of the subsidiary and performance bonuses for Material Risk Takers under the FCA companies, the Chairman, other members of executive management Remuneration Code and Identified Staff under the AIFMD and and all other staff who are deemed to be Material Risk Takers or UCITS Remuneration Codes agreed by the sub-committee under Identified Staff.
The policy is determined with due regard to the delegated authority.
The required Remuneration Code disclosures interests of the Company, the shareholders and the Group, with the were also reviewed and agreed: objective of this being to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to run the Group successfully Reviewing the current Remuneration Policy and developing the without paying more than is necessary.
proposed revised policy brought forward to shareholders for approval: and The performance measurement of the Directors and key members of senior management and the determination of their annual Reviewing the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee.
remuneration packages are also undertaken by the Committee.
Forindividuals below Director level, the Committee has delegated Remuneration Committee allocation of authority for setting individual remuneration packages to a sub committee consisting of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief People time Officer and Group Risk and Compliance Director, which reports to Routine % the Committee on its decisions.
The Committee also ensures that FCA rem policy, including MRT % the remuneration relationship between the Directors and senior Proportionality AIFMD CRD % Shareholder feedback % employees of the Group is appropriate and that the Remuneration LTIP % Policy complies with the FCA Remuneration Code.
Any exceptional DRR % remuneration arrangements for senior employees are advised to Exec leaver % Exec Rem Scheme % the Committee.
New Exec pay % Benchmarking % Other % Meetings during the year Pension % There were six scheduled meetings during the year and additional Company ad hoc meetings where required.
I chair the committee and during performance review % Self assessment % the year its members were Mike Evans, Shirley Garrood and Stephen Robertson.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Advice to the Committee Meetings The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, the Chief eligible Meetings People Officer and the Chief Executive Officer, who are invited to to attend attended attend Committee meetings to provide further background Chairman information and context to assist the Committee in its duties.
No Christopher Barling 6 6 Director was involved in discussions regarding the determination of Members their own remuneration.
Mike Evans 6 6 Shirley Garrood 6 6 Throughout the year, the Committee has appointed and been Stephen Robertson 6 5 advised by Deloitte LLP, which is a signatory to the Code of Conduct 64 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information for the provision of independent remuneration advice of the Financial growth Client service Strategic measures measures measures Remuneration Consultants Group.
Deloitte was invited to continue as advisers following a review of service levels.
The Remuneration Net new business Net promoter Developing Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received was objective score client service Net new clients and independent.
The fees payable to Deloitte for this advice were Client retention Developing 51,700 plus VAT.
Fees are determined at the outset of the year to Profit before tax capabilities cover the range of services it is anticipated the Remuneration Client service Committee will require.
If additional work is necessary, fees are measure Maintaining the agreed for these additional services.
Other services provided to business Hargreaves Lansdown by Deloitte LLP during the year consisted of tax and HR consulting services.
The targets set in relation to these measures are considered to be commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed in next years report.
Following a competitive tender process the Committee also engaged Willis Towers Watson to provide market benchmarking for In making an assessment of performance against the targets set, the Directors and selected senior roles below director level, they the Committee will give due consideration to market movements, also provided an update on executive remuneration market trends.
investor sentiment, interest rates and the impact of regulation, all of The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice it has which are beyond the control of the Executive Directors.
They will received was objective and independent.
The fees payable to Willis also consider the extent to which management has operated within Towers Watson for its services were 32,000 plus VAT.
Other the agreed risk parameters and the extent to which the bonus services provided to Hargreaves Lansdown by Willis Towers Watson outcome reflects the overall performance of the business in the consisted of the provision of remuneration benchmarking data for context of the shareholder experience.
Details of the Committees employees of the Group below Director level.
assessment will be given in the remuneration report next year.
Implementation of the Remuneration Individual performance will be assessed against the following objectives: Policy in 2018 Executive Directors Individual objectives Individual objectives Salary for Chris Hill for Philip Johnson The Executive Directors base salaries were reviewed in June 2017.
Communicate the strategy to Deliver success in Hargreaves Inreviewing base salaries the Committee takes into account salaries stakeholders Lansdowns financial metrics elsewhere across the Group, relevant market data and information on remuneration practice in a comparator group of companies in the Establish operating Design and implement a plan framework to deliver the to make a sustainable financial sector.
As both Executive Directors have been appointed to development to the operations strategy their current roles during the course of the last year, it was not felt function appropriate to increase either of their appointment salaries.
Deliver year 1 of the strategic plan in a risk controlled Develop finance, company Salary on secretarial and investor environment Salary as at appointment to relations capabilities Name of Director 1 July 2017 current role % increase Maintain client satisfaction 1 Chris Hill 600,000 600,000 0% Optimise the balance sheet Support handover to new 2 Philip Johnson 425,000 425,000 0% Chairman and ensure smooth Build effective partnership induction of new Nonwith CEO 1 Chris Hill was appointed as Chief Executive Officer after FCA approval on 13 April Executive Directors within the 2017.
His salary as Chief Financial Officer was 425,000.
This was increased to Become authorised as CF10a 600,000 from 9 February 2017 when he assumed the responsibilities of Chief business the named individual for Executive Officer.
2 Philip Johnson was confirmed as Chief Financial Officer after FCA approval on client assets 7 April2017.
In line with the proposed Remuneration Policy, the following The base salary figures in the above table are the reference base on-target and maximum bonus opportunities will apply: salaries of the Executive Director before any salary sacrifice or exchange into pension or other benefits.
On-target bonus Maximum opportunity bonus opportunity % of base % of base Annual bonus salary salary For 2018, awards are subject to performance against a balanced Chris Hill 225% 350% scorecard.
This includes the following Company metrics: Philip Johnson 156% 350% 65 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration The total value of bonuses paid to members of the Executive In respect of the initial awards under the Sustained Performance Committee will remain capped at 5% of profit before tax.
Plan these underpinning performance conditions will be: 60% of the bonus awarded to each Executive Director will be A requirement for average assets under administration for the payable in cash following the end of the financial year.
40% of the last complete financial year prior to vesting to be above the bonus will be deferred into nil cost options over a period of three average assets under administration for the last complete years, subject to continued employment.
financial year prior to award: Any unvested deferred awards are subject to a formal malus Maintenance of a satisfactory risk, compliance and internal mechanism.
Non-deferred bonus awards are subject to clawback control environment across the plan period: and for three years from the date of award.
Satisfactory personal performance throughout the plan period.
Sustained Performance Plan SPP Subject to shareholder approval The Board will review performance against these underpinning of the proposed Remuneration Policy, we intend to make the first conditions in the round, taking into account market movements, the awards under the Sustained Performance Plan immediately external business environment and any significant changes in following the AGM in October 2017. regulation in assessing the extent to which awards should vest.
Each Executive Director will receive an award of nil-cost options Any unvested awards will be subject to a formal malus mechanism.
with a face value of 50% of base salary, subject to satisfactory personal performance in the period pre grant.
Awards will vest after five years, subject to the achievement of the underpinning performance conditions.
Executive Director remuneration for 2017 Remuneration payable for the 2017 financial year 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 Audited The remuneration received by Executive Directors in relation to performance in 2017 is set out below.
Deferred Gross basic element of Gain on historic 4 salary Cash bonus bonus shares options vesting Pension Totals Name of Director Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 Ian Gorham 2017 348 360 240 220 1,168 2016 500 1,085 465 21 2,071 2 Chris Hill 2017 508 825 550 344 6 2,233 2016 179 263 112 4 558 3 Philip Johnson 2017 103 145 97 345 2016 1 Ian Gorhams remuneration shown is for the period until he stepped down from the Board on 9 February 2017.
During the period he was in post, he waived nil of his salary 2016: 15,000 in favour of making a higher pension contribution.
2 Chris Hills remuneration for 2017 reflects his role as Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Executive until 8 February 2017 and as Chief Executive Officer from 9 February 2017.
The prior year comparatives shown for 2016 reflect the period of the year he was in post from 4 February 2016.
3 Philip Johnsons remuneration for 2017 relates to the period from his appointment to the Board on 7 April 2017.
4 The Directors have taken benefits as a sacrifice to their salary.
Ian Gorham sacrificed 1,800 2016: 44,000 in regards of car parking and unpaid leave.
Chris Hill sacrificed 5,600 2016: 2,000 in order to fund pension contributions and in regards of car parking.
Philip Johnson received 4,250 2016: in lieu of pension contributions as he has previously taken Lifetime Protection.
The amounts shown as gross basic salary are prior to any exchange into pension or salary sacrifice deductions.
Under Gain on historic options vesting, the amounts shown are a Benefits in kind are available to all employees on the same basis.
For 2017, benefits included: local car parking scheme: childcare best estimate of amounts to be paid in respect of performance vouchers: 4% of base salary employer pension contributions: periods concluding at the date of the end of the reporting period.
reduced platform fees for holding assets in Vantage: reduced Other than SAYE options which are available to Directors on the dealing charges for self and connected persons: health care: and same basis as all employees, and the awards made to Chris Hill on the ability to participate in the Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
joining, no share options without performance criteria have been granted to Executive Directors since 7 March 2012.
No Director has a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension by reference to their length of qualifying service.
66 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Annual bonuses for the 2017 financial year 1 July 2016 to These opportunities have been pro rated to reflect each individuals 30 June 2017 Audited time in role during the financial year.
The value of bonuses payable to Executive Directors was The total value of bonuses payable to both Executive Directors and determined by the Committee based on the performance of the other members of the Executive Committee is subject to a cap of Group against a number of financial measures, detailed below, and 5% of profit before tax, in line with the Policy.
each individuals performance against the specific objectives set forthem.
Group performance has been considered in relation to the following measures: For the 2017 financial year only, as disclosed in last years report the value of bonuses payable for performance in line with the business Growth Client service Strategic measures measures measures plan was increased by 10% the expected value of previous annual LTIP awards to reflect the absence of the LTIP for that year.
Net New Business Net Promoter Developing Score client service For each Executive Director, their overall bonus has been determined Net New Clients by reference to the following target and maximum levels: Developing Client Retention Profit Before Tax capabilities Client Service On-target bonus Maximum Measure Business opportunity bonus efficiency for 2017 opportunity % of base % of base salary salary Ian Gorham None 400% Chris Hill 235% 400% Philip Johnson 206% 400% Details of performance in each of these areas is set out below: Growth measures Operating plan target Actual Last year Change Commentary Net new business 6.354bn 6.905bn 6.01bn 15% The Committee reviewed performance in introducing new assets to the business, taking into account current market conditions.
During the year, our share of the platform market increased from 35.9% to 37.8% and market share of retail stockbroking increased from 25.52% to 29.74%.
Net new clients 101,000 118,000 100,000 18% The Committee noted strong growth was also seen in respect of net new clients, as 118,000 clients were acquired during the year compared to 100,000 last year.
Profit before tax 241m 265.8m 218.9m 21% The Committee reviewed performance in delivering sustainable earnings growth, taking into account market consensus at the beginning of the year as well as current market conditions and the overall 14% increase in the FTSE All Share index over the period.
Summary: Above target performance The Committee concluded that the Group has delivered a strong year for growth delivering more assets, more clients and record levels of net new business.
This growth was delivered within the context of underlying market growth and, while the Committee took this tailwind into account, it also concluded that together with the increases in market share, the Group had delivered strong earnings growth within the planned resourcing levels.
67 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Client service Actual Last year Change Commentary Net promoter 60.5% 54.7% 11% The Committee reviewed the levels of service provided to clients recognising that 60.5% was the score highest score ever, and compares to a three year average of 55.6%.
The review also considered a range of other metrics including the nature and number of complaints, the significant increase in processing demands driven by business growth and the scalability and performance of technology.
Client 94.7% 94.3% 0.4% The Committee observed that retention levels again increased over the prior year.
retention Client service 272 249 9% The client service measure is internally constructed and consists of a combination of net measure promoter scores across each of the three key product areas: SIPP, ISA and Fund Share Account and client retention rate.
272 is the highest score ever and exceeds both the threshold score of 215 and the maximum of 265 established as part of the LTIP performance conditions.
Summary: on target performance The Committee concluded that the business has delivered another good year for client service and acknowledged that, while the metrics were all strong, the Executive teams ambition was for an even higher level of client service.
Strategic delivery The Committee reviewed projects that had been delivered during the year against the strategic plan, grouped as follows: Developing our client service Developing our capabilities Maintaining the business Launch of two HL Select Equity funds Completed review of IT development Broker Focus transition completion of final complex Lifetime ISA launch location options change projects Release of new mobile app Development and delivery of key Replacement of stock exchange messaging system milestones on people agenda Rationalisation of CASS legal entity structure Development and implementation of Review of controls and performance relating to client digital marketing capability.
charges post RDR Development of risk management framework The Committee considered the successful delivery of a number of new not directly client facing, were fundamental to both maintaining services to clients during the course of the year.
As at the end of the arobust and scalable business and supporting the growth year, the two HL Select funds now have 0.5bn funds under involumes.
management and Hargreaves Lansdown was one of the first to offer Specific focus was given to progress on the Active Savings service, the new Lifetime ISA.
14,550 LISA accounts have been opened in the which had not been delivered during the year.
A proof of concept year to June 2017 and 36 million is invested through us.
We released has been delivered and significant progress made in developing the new mobile app in January and since then there have been over systems infrastructure, obtaining regulatory permissions and 486,000 downloads and 72m has been deposited into client working with banking partners.
However, delivery was not achieved accounts through the mobile app, a key feature enabled through within the planned timescale.
Summary: below target performance The Committee considered the progress made in developing our capabilities of people, technology and marketing noting the set-up Overall, the Committee recognised the significant level of delivery of HL Tech in Warsaw, a number of key initiatives concerning the on strategic items during the year, but its view was weighed heavily development of culture, skills and expertise to support growth and by the slower than anticipated progress of Active Savings, resulting the continued progress in developing our digital footprint.
in a summary assessment of below-target performance for Hargreaves Lansdown received 96.3m digital visits for the year to strategicdelivery.
The Committee also recognised the successful delivery of a number of complex projects that, while 68 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Individual performance Philip Johnson The Committee has considered each individual Directors Objective Committees assessment performance against his or her personal objectives to ensure that Deliver success in the HL Groups Achieved awards are made where performance so merits and that they had financial metrics individually not taken any inappropriate behaviour.
Nosuch Design and implement a plan to Progressing well concerns were raised during the year.
make sustainable development to Ian Gorhams objectives were discussed in the equivalent report operations function last year.
Early in the first half of the year when it became evident Get settled in and immersed, Achieved that the handover of responsibilities would happen earlier than building relationships with the exec predicted, we disclosed a new objective of ensuring a complete and team robust handover of responsibilities was added.
Two further Deliver year end to timetable and On track objectives existed which remain commercially sensitive.
improve shareholder communications Ian Gorham Objective Committees assessment Summary Deliver a new strategic plan Achieved The Committee concluded that Chris Hills performance was above Deliver financial results to the Half year financials strong target and that of Ian Gorham and Philip Johnson were on target.
satisfaction of shareholders in a although new business risk-controlled environment flows disappointing Total bonuses awarded Deliver the successful launch of HL Not achieved Each Directors bonus has been pro-rated to reflect their time in the Active Savings role during the financial year.
The resulting bonuses for the year ending 30 June 2017, taking into account both Group and Maintain client satisfaction Achieved personal performance were: Support and promote focus on people Achieved development Cash Deferred Total % of 000 000 000 maximum Ensure a complete and robust Achieved Ian Gorham 360 240 600 43% handover of responsibilities Chris Hill 825 550 1,375 68% Philip Johnson 145 97 242 62% Chris Hill Objective Committees assessment Deliver the results and financial plan Strong year end numbers Deferral of annual performance bonuses 40% of the annual performance bonuses will be deferred for three Deliver operational efficiency while Service levels maintained years into nil-cost options.
maintaining service levels but work continues on driving out operational In last years remuneration report we had stated that dividends efficiency would not be payable on the deferred shares element of 2017 bonuses as a result of a change in regulatory requirements, but that Review and strengthen the finance Achieved we fundamentally disagreed with the logic of this position.
We team believe that the payment of dividends or dividend equivalents is Deliver financial results to the Strong year end numbers an important feature in aligning the interests of executives with satisfaction of shareholders in a those of shareholders, and so are pleased to be able to report a risk-controlled environment change in our understanding of the regulatory position such that Deliver the successful launch of HL Targeting live proposition wewill now be paying dividends or equivalents on unvested Active Savings which is ready to launch in nil-cost options at the end of the vesting period in line with our December 2017 Remuneration Policy.
Maintain client satisfaction Client service measure at The right to exercise deferred awards will vest after three years highest ever level, but provided the individual remains employed by the Group.
ambition remains for even greater heights Malus and clawback Support and promote focus on Really strong support and The 60% of bonus paid upfront is subject to clawback until people development HL Tech launched threeyears from the date of payment.
Unvested deferred nil-cost options will be subject to a formal malus mechanism.
69 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Prior year comparison For additional information, the history of the performance measures and the total value of Executive Committee bonuses for the last five years is: Measure 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Profit before tax PBT 265.8m 218.9m 199.0m 209.8m 195.2m Net new business 6.9bn 6.0bn 6.1bn 6.4bn 5.1bn Net new clients 118,000 100,000 84,000 144,000 76,000 Net operating margin on net revenue 67.7% 66.8% 67.3% 71.3% 71.5% Client service measure 272 249 240 216 266 Total value of Executive Committee bonuses as % of PBT 1.93% 1.83% 1.78% 2.42% 3.53% Vesting of long-term incentive awards for Ian Gorham for financial year ending 30 June 2017 audited The performance period for the LTIP awards made for the year ended 30 June 2014 came to an end on the third anniversary of the award.
The LTIP targets and the outcomes achieved are detailed below: Weighting of Target each condition Minimum Maximum Performance Achievement 1 EPS 50% 42.3p 47.4p 38.4p 0% Net new business 50% 23.2bn 28.6bn 19.0bn 0% 1 For earnings per share, the target is based on average undiluted basic EPS for each financial year in the performance period.
At the time of grant, the Director received an award of options over 55,000 shares, with scaled vesting dependent on performance against the targets set.
The vesting schedule was set such that provided the threshold was achieved, 25% of that part of the option relating to that performance condition would vest, rising to vesting in full if the maximum target was met or exceeded.
For performance between the minimum and maximum targets, vesting is pro-rated on a straight line basis between 25% and 100%.
For the participant, nil options of the 55,000 granted will vest.
The 2013 LTIP vested during the year and 33,036 options of the 50,000 granted vested for each participant.
The share price on the date of vesting, 7 September 2016, was 13.49.
70 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Share awards made during the year ending 30 June 2017 audited As outlined in last years report, no awards were made under the LTIP in respect of performance during the year ended 30 June 2016.
Market value Share Number % of face of maximum price of shares Fair value value that award at on date over which Face value at date would 1 2 date of grant Exercise of grant the award of award of grant vest at Performance Name of Director Type of award price was granted threshold vesting period 3 5 Ian Gorham Deferred bonus 497,540 1.00 13.30 37,409 497,540 497,539 n a 1 July 2016 to 12 September 2019 3 5 Chris Hill Deferred bonus 120,365 1.00 13.30 9,050 120,365 120,364 n a 1 July 2016 to 12 September 2019 4 Philip Johnson SAYE 22,620 10.57 13.29 1,702 22,620 4,629 n a 1 June 2017 to 1 June 2020 1 Face value is calculated as the share price at the date of grant multiplied by the number of options granted.
2 Fair value is calculated as the difference between market value and the exercise price at the date of grant.
Note that SAYE options were granted at a discount, on the same basis as for all employees.
3 These are non-performance related awards.
The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated by reference to the share price on 30 June 2016 of 12.43.
These awards were granted on 12 September 2016.
4 Savings into SAYE are capped at a maximum of 500 per month.
5 The aggregate exercise price for awards under the deferred bonus scheme is 1 and were granted on 7 April 2017.
All-employee share plans Executive Directors shareholdings and share interests The company operates a SAYE share options scheme and share audited incentive plan SIP on the same terms for all employees.
All The guideline for Executive Directors to accumulate minimum employees are encouraged to become shareholders, both through personal holdings in Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares amounts to a direct ownership or through participation in share schemes.
value of two times base salary within six years of appointment to the Board.
Under the revised Remuneration Policy being presented Sourcing shares for approval, the guideline will be increased to a value of three The Investment Association guidelines on sourcing shares have times base salary, again to be achieved within six years of been followed and, in line with the scheme rules, the Company has appointment to the Board.
not issued shares under all employee schemes which, when At the point of stepping down from the Board, Ian Gorham owned aggregated with awards under all of the Companys other schemes, shares outright, at a level exceeding his required shareholding as exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital in any rolling 10 described above based on a share price of 13.53 being the closing year period.
The Company has also not issued new shares under price on 9 February 2017. executive discretionary schemes which exceed 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in any rolling 10 year period.
Under the current policy Chris Hill has until 30 June 2019 to obtain a one times base salary shareholding.
Philip Johnson has until 30 June 2020 to obtain a one times base salary shareholding.
71 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Outstanding Outstanding subject to subject to No of share continued continued Outstanding options Shareholding Beneficially Beneficially Outstanding employment, employment, LTIP awards vested but No of share Shareholding as a multiple owned at owned at subject to arising from arising from with unexercised options guideline of base salary 30 June 30 June continued deferred recruitment performance at 30 June exercised multiple of achieved at Name of Director 2016 2017 employment bonus award conditions 2017 in the year base salary 30 June 2017 Ian Gorham 332,628 139,628 1,565 89,139 115,000 33,036 20,974 Two times Over three times Chris Hill 14,363 1,750 9,050 12,200 50,000 27,100 One times 0.3 times Philip Johnson 30,612 1,702 One times 0.9 times Pension Payments to past Directors audited No Directors or employees participate in a defined benefit pension The Committee confirms that no payments have been made to past scheme.
The Group operates its own Group Self Invested Personal Directors during the year, with the exception of the exercise of the Pension the GSIPP.
The Company currently contributes 4% of following share awards for Tracey Taylor: base salary to the scheme which applies to Executive Directors and Ms Taylor exercised 7,713 deferred bonus shares on 6 September staff.
This will increase to 5% of base salary with effect from 2016 when the share price was 13.49.
Employees wishing to make personal contributions to the GSIPP can Payments for loss of office audited do so via salary exchange or bonus waiver ensuring that they It was announced in September 2016 that Ian Gorham had decided benefit from the maximum, immediate relief from income tax and to step down as Chief Executive Officer.
He subsequently stepped National Insurance.
Employees are required to contribute 4%, with down as CEO on 9 February 2017, and will remain with the Group contribution levels increasing to 5% from 1 October 2017.
Staff, until 30 September 2017 to ensure a smooth transition.
His existing Senior Management and Executive Directors may opt out of the conditions of employment will continue in accordance with his scheme should they wish.
Where an individual has reduced the service contract until this date.
The value of emoluments paid for level of their contribution to the GSIPP due to exceeding, or being the period of the year after he had stepped down from the Board due to exceed, the Lifetime Allowance or Annual Contribution, or was 219,907. has opted out where they have elected to protect their Lifetime Mr Gorham remained eligible for a reduced pro-rated discretionary Allowance, the Group will make an additional monthly payment bonus for the period 1 July 2016 to 9 February 2017 commensurate equivalent to the employers pension contribution amount forsaken.
with standing down as CEO part way through the year.
Details of The Committee confirms that no excess retirement benefits have this bonus are set out within the table headed Remuneration been paid to current or past Directors.
payable for the 2017 financial year.
The Remuneration Committee determined that Mr Gorham would be classified as a good leaver Payments to third parties under the Long Term Incentive Plan and as such he will be eligible to The Committee confirms that no amounts have been paid to third retain his unvested awards under this plan, pro-rated for time to parties in respect of Directors services.
report the proportion of the performance period served prior to the cessation of his employment.
These awards will remain subject to the terms of the plan, including performance conditions.
No other compensation for loss of office will be paid to Mr Gorham.
72 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Remuneration in context Total shareholder return Hargreaves Lansdown FTSE Financial Services Index The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return TSR, which is the capital growth and dividends paid.
This is compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index for the last eight years.
This chart shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on1 July 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index for each of our financial year endsto 30 June 2017.
We have chosen the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index as we believe it is the most appropriate comparator for benchmarking our corporate performance over the eight yearperiod.
Chief Executive Officer remuneration for the past eight years The table below shows details of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration for the previous eight years.
2 Emoluments for Ian Gorham for 2011 are shown for the ten months following his appointment to the Board as a Director.
3 Emoluments for Ian Gorham for 2017 are shown for the period to 9 February 2017 when he stepped down as Chief Executive Officer.
4 Emoluments for Chris Hill for 2017 reflect his emoluments for the period from 9 February 2017, and exclude his earnings as Chief Financial Officer and Deputy CEO prior to that date.
5 Prior to 2014, there was no individual cap on annual bonus payable, other than the overall bonus pool cap as a percentage of profit before tax.
Bonus figures shown are gross of any sacrifice into pension and before any compulsory deferral.
6 Options vesting in 2014 and 2013 pre-dated the LTIP and therefore had no performance criteria.
73 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration Chairman and Non-Executive The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of Director remuneration the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer and the Companys employees as a whole between the year ended 30 June Fees for Non-Executive Directors were reviewed in June 2017.
Theseare structured with a base fee payable to all Non-Executive Directors, with additional fees paid for the role of Senior Base salary Annual bonus Independent Director and for the chairs and members of Board 1 Chief Executive Officer % change 18% 10% sub-committees.
Employee % change 8% 1% Fee policy 1 This comparison is based on the aggregate remuneration of Ian Gorham and Chris Fees from Fees from Hill for the respective periods of 2017 for which they were Chief Executive Officer 1 July 2017 1 July 2016 p. a. p. a.
Benefits are provided on the same terms to Directors and all staff Chairman 250,000 250,000 alike and as such are not included within the table above.
Base fee for Non-Executives 52,500 52,500 Relative importance of the spend on remuneration Senior Independent Director 12,500 12,500 The table below shows the actual expenditure of the Group in terms Chair of Audit Committee 25,000 25,000 of total employee remuneration pay, profit before tax, and total Chair of Remuneration Committee 12,500 12,500 dividends for this and the previous year.
Profit before tax has been chosen as a metric in this instance to demonstrate the profits Chair of Investment Committee 10,000 10,000 generated for shareholders and the relationship between this and 1 Chair of Risk Committee 10,000 10,000 the overall cost of employee remuneration.
To aid comparison we 1 Chair of Nomination Committee 10,000 10,000 have also detailed the percentage change between the years.
Member of Audit Remuneration Total Total Profit dividend Risk Investment Committee 2,500 2,500 dividend before Staff declared paid tax costs pence 1 Under current arrangements the Chairman fills this role for no additional fee.
m m m per share 2017 164.5 265.8 68.6 29.0p Remuneration payable for the 2017 financial year 2016 160.6 218.9 60.2 34.0p 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 audited The remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors in 2017 is % change 2% 21% 11% -15% set out below.
2017 fees 2016 fees External directorships of Executive Directors in the year Non-Executive Directors and Chairman None of the Executive Directors have held any external Mike Evans, Chairman 250,000 250,000 directorships during the year.
Christopher Barling 85,000 75,000 Remuneration Policy for other employees Stephen Robertson 65,000 50,000 All employees across the Group are subject to the same process in Shirley Garrood 85,000 75,000 respect of annual salary reviews.
Consideration is given to the 1 scope of each role, the level of experience, responsibility, progress Jayne Styles 70,000 41,379 in role, and pay levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
2 Dharmash Mistry 8,333 The performance and potential of the individual is also considered.
1 Emoluments for Jayne Styles for 2016 are shown for the eight months following her All permanent employees are considered for an annual performance appointment to the Board on 23 October 2015.
2 Emoluments for Dharmash Mistry for 2016 are shown for the two months up to his bonus with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
resignation from the Board on 31 August 2015.
All eligible employees under the rules of the scheme may also participate in the Groups Save As You Earn and share incentive plans and senior staff may also be awarded share options under the Groups Company share option plan or Executive share option plan where they have displayed exceptional performance.
74 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Non-Executive Directors received no other benefits or other The table below shows, as at 30 June 2017, the Company shares remuneration other than reimbursement of all reasonable and held by the Non-Executive Directors: properly documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses Non-Executive Director Shares incurred in the performance of their duties and any tax and social Mike Evans 8,125 costs arising thereon, the benefit of officers liability insurance and reduced fees for the use of Hargreaves Lansdown services for Christopher Barling nil themselves and connected persons, on the same basis as all other Stephen Robertson 9,890 Hargreaves Lansdown staff.
Shirley Garrood nil Jayne Styles nil Statement of voting at the AGM At the AGM held in 2016, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration report were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Votes cast excluding Votes cast including Resolution votes % for against % against votes withheld withheld votes withheld Approve Directors Report on remuneration excluding Directors Remuneration Policy 348,570,289 89.98% 38,808,578 10.02 387,378,867 3,670,969 391,049,836 At the AGM held on 24 October 2014 the last time the Directors Remuneration Policy was subject to shareholder vote, the votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors Remuneration Policy were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Votes cast excluding Votes cast including Resolution votes % for against % against votes withheld withheld votes withheld Approve Directors Remuneration Policy 379,027,684 98.4% 5,941,081 1.54% 384,968,765 84,379 385,053,144 Christopher Barling Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 August 2017 75 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
