Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance Directors remuneration report We achieved a record turnover of 536.8m with underlying revenue growth of 14%.
Adjusted profit beforetax was 109.1m, and statutory profit before taxwas 117.1m, an increase of 25% on an adjusted basis.
Our total shareholder return during the year was67%, ranking Renishaw in the top 25 in both theFTSE 250 andFTSE 350.
Kath Durrant Non-executive director Chair of the Remuneration Committee These targets are disclosed later in Statement from the Chair of Remuneration Committee this report: the Remuneration Committee role and composition consider Will Lees remuneration, Introduction following his appointment to the The Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased Board as Group Sales and Marketing is responsible for deciding the to present the Directors remuneration Director, following Ben Taylors Companys framework of executive report for 2017. retirement at the end of July 2016. director remuneration and setting Wills initial remuneration was set remuneration packages for The report complies with the below our target market position each of the executive directors.
requirements for reporting on directors for the role and significantly below The committees aim is to motivate pay introduced in October 2013 and is Bens package, with a base salary and retain executive directors by split into the following three sections: of 325,000 but with the expectation rewarding them with competitive 1. this statement from me as the Chair that it would increase substantially, salary, benefit packages and of the Remuneration Committee: subject to performance, once he incentives.
The incentives are became established in the position.
linked to the overall performance 2. the remuneration policy pages 86 Shareholders will note that as a result of the Group and, in turn, to the to 89 which is to be put before of Wills excellent performance in interests of the shareholders.
the shareholders at the AGM on the role this year that the Committee 20th October 2017 and which is The committee reviews annually has awarded Will a substantial salary intended to apply for a three-year the executive directors increase to take his salary to around period from that date: and remuneration in the context of that of the other non-founding the Groups performance during 3. the annual report on remuneration executive directors a base salary the year.
pages 90 to 93, setting of398,000: out information on directors The committee also reviews appoint Mercer Kepler as remuneration paid during the year the remuneration structure and independent professional ended 30th June 2017, and how packages for the next level of remuneration advisers: our policy will be implemented in senior leaders across the business approve director salary increases the year ending 30th June 2018. to ensure it is competitive and and bonuses, and the Chairman and fair, and that there is appropriate Review of the Remuneration Chief Executives expenses: and progression for those identified as Committees activities conduct a detailed review of potential successors to the Board The committee met seven times during the Companys remuneration and senior executive team.
the year in order to: policy, further details of which are All the members of the committee provided below.
set targets at the start of the year are non-executive directors, for the annual bonus, with reference comprising Kath Durrant Chair, to the Companys budgets and Sir David Grant, Carol Chesney forecasts.
The targets reflected the and John Jeans.
The terms of committees expectations for profit reference of the committee are growth and its desire to reinforce published on the Companys the importance of the cash position website.
Executive directors attend following several years of strategic meetings of the committee by capital investment.
Targets and invitation for parts of the agenda as associated bonus scheme rules were appropriate.
Independent advisers communicated to executive directors are used as required.
at the start of the financial year.
83 Governance Directors remuneration report continued In summary, the proposed changes to In the past year, performance in the Review of the remuneration the policy include: core metrology businesses has been policy strong, innovation in these businesses Three years ago at our 2014 AGM introduction of a new deferred continues apace and relationships shareholders approved a new threeannual equity incentive plan, with with high-value manufacturers and year remuneration policy for Renishaw, a maximum opportunity of 50% of organisations in their supply chain with 86% of votes in favour.
This deferred annual equity continue to deepen.
2015 and 2016 AGMs shareholders incentive will only be earned for supported the implementation of our performance beyond the level at Proposed changes to the remuneration policy with 98% in favour.
This year which the maximum annual bonus policy include the introduction of an we are seeking approval of a new is payable.
Any award made under additional opportunity for executive remuneration policy that is designed to the deferred annual equity incentive directors to earn a deferred annual operate over the next three years.
will be delivered in Renishaw shares equity incentive award in the event that normally vest on the third that performance exceeds the annual We have reviewed our policy taking anniversary of grant, subject to bonus maximum performance target.
into account: continued employment: Any deferred annual equity incentive the strategic opportunities and award would be earned only for introduction of a minimum operational challenges the Company additional performance beyond the shareholding requirement for may face in the next few years: current maximum performance level, executive directors of 50% of salary: and would be capped at 50% of salary.
the external corporate and The decision to propose deferred governance environment: clarification in the recruitment shares and a longer term element to commentary from advisory bodies: policy of the flexibility available to remuneration is intended to help align and the committee to buy out awards non-founder executive directors with forfeited by external appointees, the views of our shareholders, long-term shareholder interests, and if necessary, to secure the including the majority shareholders.
help smooth remuneration through right individual.
This year we have operated with the In considering these proposed support of independent professional 2 Succession policy changes the committee remuneration advisors.
Giving due Under the leadership of Sir David considered the following areas to be consideration to all these inputs, McMurtry and John Deer the Company ofparticular importance: applying our own experience, and has developed into a formidable global assessing the needs of Renishaw, 1 Performance force in the science and application of the committee concluded that some Renishaw is well placed to continue advanced metrology solutions.
A key changes should be made to the its long term growth trajectory, based role of the Remuneration Committee is present policy.
In May 2017 we wrote on its continued commitment to to help the Board ensure that we are to all our shareholders outlining our innovation and product development.
capable of attracting, developing and proposals and inviting feedback.
The Company, whilst retaining retaining the next generation of leaders.
Where feedback was received this significant capability in the UK, In developing the proposed new was also taken into account by continues to successfully expand remuneration policy the committee has the committee.
its sales, marketing, applications taken into account the potential need engineering and distribution presence for the Company to attract and retain around the world.
Its global reach and leadership talent during the life of the relevance to high-value manufacturing next policy.
mitigates to some extent the potential The Company has strong internal headwinds posed by Brexit uncertainty.
candidates for promotion and We expect Renishaw to continue succession to the Board, and the to be positioned to perform well.
proposed changes to the policy Stretching performance targets provide additional flexibility in the event are therefore at the heart of our that it is necessary to recruit externally.
remuneration approach for executive The proposals provide the flexibility to directors and leaders supporting compensate new recruits if necessary them.
Target setting takes place in a for incentive awards they may have strategic context, and seeks to reflect to forfeit on joining Renishaw.
In such our expectation that Renishaw will an event the fair value of any buyout continue to grow substantially over the award would not exceed the fair value long term, but also takes into account of the awards being replaced, taking the opportunities and challenges into account vesting and performance that can affect businesses with short criteria.
Awards would as far as order books.
possible be replaced on a like-forlike basis.
84 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The committee has also taken a The committee is therefore proposing decision that where appointments to introduce a longer term element are made, salaries may be set at in the form of the deferred annual a level that subsequently requires equity incentive plan, alongside a staged increases to the package, new requirement for all executive rather than the more typical large directors to build up and maintain a single increase on appointment.
In this way, This enables us to ensure that new we believe that the new remuneration appointees demonstrate they can fully policy will help align executives perform in their new role before they remuneration more closely with can move to the median package for Company performance and the longthe role.
This approach may require term interests of all shareholders.
the committee to subsequently It will also help address the impact apply a higher percentage increase of the absence of an LTIP on the to the individuals salary than the overall competitiveness of the average percentage increase across package.
The initial level of minimum the workforce.
shareholding required will be 1 the maximum opportunity available 3 The views of our shareholders under the new deferred annual equity An unprecedented level of commentary incentive plan, broadly in line with regarding executive pay has been the ratio of minimum shareholding seen over the past year in the UK requirements and share-based media.
Institutional shareholders incentive opportunities at other FTSE and their governance departments, 250 companies.
advisory bodies, the government and other political parties have offered The committee has also proposed a their perspectives.
Renishaws change in the policy to place a cap peers, international competitors, our on total remuneration which we hope customers and employees have their will provide additional assurance views too.
The committee is mindful of to shareholders.
all these views and opinions and has The details of the proposed sought to steer a path that ensures remuneration policy are contained in that the remuneration policy can the following pages.
The committee be supported by a majority of the and the Board recommend this policy institutional and private shareholders, to shareholders, and hope we can as well as by our majority shareholders count on your support.
and is in the best long-term interests of the Company.
Historically, feedback from proxy advisors and some institutional shareholders has questioned the Kath Durrant absence of a long term incentive for our Chair of the Remuneration Committee executives.
The committee therefore 27th July 2017 explored a range of alternatives to best address this concern.
Renishaw is a long-term business, and its leadership has invested significantly in R&D over many decades.
The culture of the business is imbued with a long-term perspective and a desire to innovate.
In reviewing alternatives for a longterm incentive, the committee was necessarily cognisant of the views of the Companys majority shareholders who concur with the commentary in the recent BEIS Select Committee report that traditional LTIPs are not necessarily right for all companies.
85 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy This section of the Directors remuneration report sets out the proposed directors remuneration policy of the Company.
Executive directors policy table Set out below is a table describing each component of the remuneration package for executive directors.
Other than the introduction of the deferred annual equity incentive opportunity for performance levels beyond the present annual bonus maximum performance target, and the introduction of minimum shareholding guidelines, the changes to the policy are minor and intended to aid clarity and improve transparency.
Total remuneration Purpose and policy relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Total To attract, motivate Executive director remuneration A cap on total remuneration Described below remuneration and retain talented is designed to be simple, at upper quartile of the in relation to each executive directors conservative, and aligned with relevant market for the constituent element to support delivery of shareholder interests.
position in question, will of remuneration.
and maximise longterm shareholder value.
Our total remuneration policy comprises the following constituent elements: Element Purpose and of remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Base salary To provide a Renishaw aims to pay base Salaries are set to deliver Continued good competitive salaries between median and total remuneration in performance remuneration upper quartile, reflecting that its accordance with the policy package to motivate variable pay opportunities remain defined above.
and retain executive significantly below market.
Base salary increases directors of the Executive director salaries are will normally be capped required quality to benchmarked against equivalent at the level of salary help the Group meet positions for relevant industrial increases for the broader its objectives to sectors based on factors such as workforce, unless the deliver the Groups sector, size and location.
committee in its absolute strategy.
Base salaries are reviewed annually discretion determines taking into account the average that a higher increase increase across the Group, and is appropriate.
Example specifically the UK where executive circumstances include: directors are located in the UK.
to reflect a significant change in a directors role or responsibilities, or if inshareholders interests a director was intentionally appointed on a belowmarket total remuneration opportunity initially and their subsequent performance in the role warrants an aboveaverage salary increase.
The rationale for any above-average increase will be disclosed in the relevant Annual remuneration report.
86 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Element Purpose and of remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Benefits To provide marketBenefits provided on an ongoing Excluding accommodation Not applicable.
competitive benefits basis include: andrelocation costs, to motivate and retain a car or car allowance: benefits are capped at executive directors 50kp.
a. private medical insurance: and to support them life assurance: to give maximum long-term disability cover: attention to their role.
If, on the recruitment of a new executive director, relocation is required to the directors place of work, the necessary relocation support may be provided.
Annual shortTo incentivise and The committee sets Group 100% of salary Based on Group term bonus reward execution performance targets, including a performance, primarily of the Groups threshold below which no bonus measured by profit objectives.
is earned increasing from zero on before tax the key a straight-line basis to a target measure of Group at which 75% of salary would be performance used earned, and to a cap at which a by shareholders maximum 100% of salary could be and by the Board.
The committee may Part or all of any bonus paid may introduce other be subject to repayment in the metrics financial and event of any material financial non-financial to reflect misstatement, error in calculation or the Groups priorities, misconduct.
or make adjustments to appropriately reflect underlying performance, provided that the bonus will always be subject to achievement of the threshold financial performance.
Targets will be set around the Groups internal strategic plan.
Any non-financial metrics shall not form more than 25% of the overall bonus opportunity.
Deferred As per the annual If performance exceeds the level at 50% of salary As per the annual annual equity short-term bonus which a maximum annual shortshort-term bonus incentive plan above.
term bonus is earned, incremental above.
profit growth beyond this level may be rewarded through a deferred annual equity incentive.
Any such award is deferred in shares for a period of three years.
Dividends may accrue on deferred shares over the deferral period and, if so, will be paid as additional shares or a cash equivalent on vesting.
Part or all of any deferred annual equity award may be subject to repayment in the event of any material financial misstatement, error in calculation or misconduct.
87 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Element Purpose and of remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Pension To provide a Each of Allen Roberts and Geoff The maximum contribution Not applicable competitive pension McFarland receives a payment of to the defined contribution as appropriate to 15% of salary, being the amount that scheme, or, where motivate and retain would otherwise be contributed to a applicable, additional executive directors of pension scheme on their behalf.
salary payment in lieu of the required quality Will Lee is entitled to an annual contributions will be 15% of to meet the Groups pension contribution of 15% of base salary objectives salary to the Companys defined contribution scheme, but, as agreed by the committee, most of this is taken as a salary supplement, with the level of pension contribution dependent on the value of his pension pot from time to time and the annual allowance.
For any new executive director, annual contributions of 15% of salary would be made to the Companys defined contribution scheme or all or part as an allowance paid in lieu, as agreed by the committee.
Geoff McFarland and Will Lee are deferred members of the Companys defined benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007.
Sir David McMurtry and John Deer receive no pension contribution or allowance in lieu.
Minimum Supports the Executive directors are expected to Not applicable Not applicable shareholding alignment of build up and maintain a level of share guideline executive and ownership of at least 50% of base shareholder interests salary.
50% of any net vested share awards after sales to meet tax liabilities must be retained until the minimum shareholding guideline is met.
Approach to recruitment no higher than that of the awards being Committee discretion in remuneration replaced, and would be structured as exceptional circumstances far as possible to replicate the awards When agreeing the remuneration The committee retains discretion in being forfeited, in terms of vesting package for a new executive director, exceptional circumstances to offer horizons and performance linkage.
the committee will apply the policy a long-term incentive to support for the existing executive directors Renishaw in securing the best Where a new executive director is to ensure a reasonably consistent executive director candidate if the required to relocate from their home approach, except as set out below.
committee considers it to be in location to take up their role, the shareholders best interests to do so.
committee may provide reasonable For an external hire, base salary will be Any use of this discretion would be relocation assistance and other set in line with the factors set out in the limited by our internal policy for the appropriate allowances if business policy table, taking into account the aggregate of all incentive opportunities needs require it.
individuals experience and the amount as a percentage of salary not to required to attract the individual to join When an internal appointment is exceed market median, and for an the Company.
The committee may also made, any pre-existing obligations individual executive directors total consider paying compensation to new will be honoured and payment will be remuneration not to exceed upper hires who forfeit any award under the permitted under the policy.
Any use of this discretion variable remuneration arrangements would be accompanied by a full with a previous employer.
Any such rationale in the relevant Annual buyout awards would have a fair value remuneration report.
88 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information If additional compensation is required The Company does not specifically Service contracts and policy on to be considered, such as on a consult with employees on its executive payment for loss of office settlement agreement, the committee director remuneration policy.
The executive directors service will consider all relevant commercial contracts require 12 months notice of Statement of consideration of factors affecting the specific case.
There are no shareholder views obligations in any executive directors Statement of consideration The committee has taken into account service contract or non-executive of employment conditions feedback provided by external directors letter of appointment which elsewhere in the Group shareholders when drawing up the would require the Company to pay a The committee takes into account remuneration policy.
At the AGM specific amount of compensation for the pay and employment conditions in 2016, the advisory vote on the loss of office.
of the Group in the country in which Directors remuneration report received The executive directors service the executive director resides, and proxy votes of 97.97% in favour.
At the contracts reflect the Companys policy is satisfied that the approach taken AGM in 2014, the binding vote on the regarding notice periods.
No payment is fair and reasonable based on remuneration policy received proxy will be made for a termination by the market conditions and practice and votes of 86.42% in favour.
The main Company for a breach by the executive the best interests of shareholders.
feedback related to the absence of a director of his or her service contract.
When considering the annual salary long-term share incentive, which the In other cases, payment in lieu of notice review, the average base salary committee has sought to address will be considered up to the 12 months increase awarded to employees through the proposed introduction notice period to cover base salary, provides a guide when determining of the deferred annual equity benefits and pension contributions.
the salaries of the executive directors incentive plan.
located in the same country.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The bar charts set out below for each executive director show: firstly, the minimum remuneration payable in respect of salary, benefits and pension: secondly, the remuneration payable if performance is in line with the Companys expectations: and thirdly, the remuneration payable if the maximum bonus and deferred annual equity incentive is payable for the financial year ending 30th June 2018.
Sir David McMurtry John Deer Allen Roberts Geoff McFarland Will Lee Minimum remuneration Additional maximum bonus including deferred All figures 000 Bonus for target profit before tax annual equity incentive Non-executive directors policy table The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors and consists of a board fee only.
There is no entitlement to any additional fees nor any bonus, incentive plans or pension.
Set out below is a table showing the fees for the non-executive directors of the Company: Element Purpose and of remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Board fees To provide a All non-executive directors are paid the The maximum Not applicable.
competitive fee to same fee, irrespective of membership of, or aggregate nonattract and retain their chairing of, board committees.
executive director non-executive The fees are reviewed annually with fees payable directors of the reference to fees payable to non-executive are set by the required quality to directors of companies of a similar size and Companys Articles of meet the Groups complexity.
Reasonable expenses that are incurred by an aggregate of directors in undertaking their duties as a 300,000 per annum.
director are reimbursed The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year period subject to annual performance review and re-election at AGMs, unless terminated earlier by either party on one months written notice.
Appointments will not normally continue beyond nine years in office.
89 525 525 525 702 702 702 702 319 319 445 319 445 445 445 299 478 299 299 478 478 478 299 478 299 299 478 478 478 299 478 299 299 478 478 478 1,752 1,227 1,083 764 1,076 777 1,076 777 1,076 777 Min Target Max Max Min Target Min Target Max Min Target Max Max Min Target Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report This section of the report sets out the remuneration of the directors in the year ended 30th June 2017 and also contains details of how we intend to implement the policy for the forthcoming financial year.
The information on pages 90 to 93 has been audited where required under the regulations and is indicated as audited where applicable.
2 Will Lee was appointed to the Board on 1st August 2016.
His remuneration shown in the table above reflects the part-year from this date to 30th June 2017.
Benefits Car Private medical cover applies to all executive directors andhome telephone costs, allowance insurance on personal cars and M4 bridge toll fees apply to some directors 000 000 Sir David McMurtry n a 2 D J Deer 18 2 A C G Roberts 18 2 G McFarland 18 1 1 B R Taylor 2 0 2 W E Lee 18 0 1 2 Ben Taylor retired from the Board on 31st July 2016.
Will Lee was appointed to the Board on 1st August 2016.
Bonus The committee establishes bonus targets taking into account the strategic growth expectations of the business, other financial parameters and strategic objectives that are required to be achieved.
This year two financial measures were targeted, no nonfinancial measures were used.
Under the current policy executive directors may earn up to 100% of base pay as a bonus.
For the year in question, the bonus was determined by two elements: 1.
Group profit growth 85% of the total opportunity FY2017 annual bonus APBT payout profile This was based on how far the Groups Adjusted Profit Before Maximum 100% Tax APBT performance in 2017 exceeded the APBT for 2016 115.0m 87.5m.
On-Target 75% 109.8m Adjusted profit before tax for the present year grew by 25% to 109.1m, and resulted in a payment level of 73% for this element of the bonus scheme worth 62% of salary.
50% 25% Threshold 87.5m 0% Threshold On-Target Max Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax 90 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Payout % of APBT element Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Group cash generation 15% of the total opportunity FY2017 annual bonus cash payout profile Given the uncertain macroeconomic environment at the start of Maximum the year, and a reducing level of cash reserves the committee 100% 36.7m decided it was prudent to set a target for cash balances to be improved.
75% The cash balance at the end of the year was 51.9m compared to net 21.3m at the end of the previous year, resulting in a 50% payment level of 100% for this element of the bonus scheme worth 15% of salary.
25% As a result of performance against the APBT and cash targets Threshold 21.3m set for the 2017 bonus, executive directors received a bonus 0% worth 77% of salary.
Threshold Max Group Cash balance Total pension entitlements G McFarland and W E Lee are members of the Companys closed defined benefit scheme.
The normal retirement age is 65.
On death, pension benefits would pass to dependants.
Since the closure of the DB scheme, contributions have been made to a defined contribution scheme.
At 30th June 2017: Value of DB pension entitlement Pension contributions G McFarland 28,933 per annum Paid in cash 7,117 pension contribution and the W E Lee 8,677 per annum balance paid in cash Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors during the year.
Loss of office payments There was no termination of employmentof directors during the year.
Performance graph The graph above shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index for comparison, as Renishaw is a constituent of this index.
TSR performance has been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2009.
1,500 Renishaw FTSE mid 250 1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Chief Executive total remuneration The table below sets out information relating to Sir David McMurtry, who was the Chief Executive for each of the years in question: Single figure of Annual bonus payout Long-term incentive vesting Year total remuneration 000 against maximum opportunity % rates against maximum opportunity % 2017 1,207 77% n a 2016 668 0% n a 2015 1,298 100% n a 2014 632 0% n a 2013 663 10% n a 2012 969 69% n a 2011 1,066 100% n a 2010 472 0% n a 91 Payout % of cash element Governance Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors serving as non-executive directors of other companies During the year none of the executive directors served as a non-executive director of any other company in respect of which any remuneration was received.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests During the year, none of the directors were required to own shares in the Company, although the remuneration policy proposed for approval by the shareholders at the AGM in 2017 includes a minimum shareholding guideline.
As at 30th June 2017 the share interests including the interests of connected persons of the directors who have served on the Board at any time during the year are: Number of ordinary shares of 20p each Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 D J Deer 12,233,040 A C G Roberts 5,165 G McFarland 2,000 1 B R Taylor 147 2 W E Lee 600 C T Chesney 500 K L Durrant Sir David Grant D J Jeans 1 Ben Taylor retired from the Board on 31st July 2016 2 Will Lee was appointed to the Board on 1st August 2016 There were no share-based payments made or share schemes in place during the year.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The following table sets out the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration compared to the percentage change in average remuneration of UK employees from 2016 to 2017: 2017 2016 Chief Executive UK employees average 000 000 % change % change Salary 681 666 2.25% 3.75% Benefits 2 2 0% 8.9% Annual bonus 524 0 n a 21% UK employees have been chosen as a comparator group in order to avoid the impact of exchange rate movements over the year.
UK employees make up 65% of the total number of group employees.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the total amount spent in the current financial year and the previous year on remuneration to all group employees and on dividends to shareholders: 2017 2016 change 000 000 % Employee remuneration 211,572 183,769 15.1% Shareholder dividends paid 34,939 33,847 3.2% Except as shown above, no other distributions have been made to shareholders or other payments or uses of profit or cash flow which impact on the understanding of the relative importance of spend on pay.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the next year Base salary The executive directors salaries, except for Will Lee, will be increased at a rate less than the average for the UK workforce, which was 3.46% and the salaries will be as follows from 1st July 2017: 30th June 2017 1st July 2017 000 000 Sir David McMurtry 681 700 D J Deer 411 425 A C G Roberts 385 398 G McFarland 385 398 W E Lee 325 398 92 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Will Lee was promoted to Group Sales Deferred annual equity incentive Mercer Kepler assisted the committee and Marketing Director early in the For the 2018 financial year, executive in reviewing and benchmarking the financial year.
This was a significant directors will be eligible for an award director and senior management promotion from his previous role of up to 50% of salary under the remuneration arrangements.
and, in line with our approach to new deferred annual equity incentive, Mercer Kepler is a founder member of ensuring merit-based pay, his salary subject to stretching targets in the Remuneration Consultants Group on appointment was set below market excess of the level required for the and, as such, voluntarily operates median with the intent to keep this annual bonus to pay out in full being under the code of conduct in relation under review once he had established achieved.
Any award under this to executive remuneration consulting himself in the new role and had the plan will be delivered in Renishaw in the UK.
Total professional fees opportunity to prove his capabilities.
shares that normally vest on the paid to Mercer Kepler during the year His performance since appointment third anniversary of grant, subject were 46,300.
Mercer Kepler was has been assessed by the Board as to continued employment over that appointed by the committee and have excellent, with his leadership of the period.
The targets set in relation to not advised the Company on any other global sales and marketing organisation the deferred annual equity incentive matters.
During the year, the actuarial being particularly strong, and his will be disclosed in next years Annual advisory division of Mercer Limited contribution to the Board providing remuneration report.
Mercer Keplers parent company deep insight to key decisions.
As noted provided advice to the trustees of the Consideration by directors of in the Chairmans statement, Will Lee Companys UK defined benefit pension matters relating to directors will take over responsibility for chairing scheme and in relation to the defined remuneration the International Sales and Marketing contribution scheme.
This work is During the year, the Remuneration Board from the start of the new entirely separate from the work done Committee considered the amount financial year.
As a result, his salary will by Mercer Kepler for the committee.
of the executive directors salary and be increased to a competitive level, by The committee is of the opinion that the framework for the annual bonus.
the advice received from Mercer Kepler The members of the Remuneration is objective and independent.
Annual bonus Committee for this purpose were: As set out in the policy, the maximum The Company Secretary acts as K L Durrant bonus opportunity for the year ending secretary to the committee.
30th June 2018 will continue to be C T Chesney 100% of salary for executive directors.
Sir David Grant The bonus for the year ending 30th June 2018 will be based on financial D J Jeans targets.
The bonus scheme targets have been set based on the policy as set out in the policy table, and will be disclosed in next years Annual remuneration report.
Statement of voting at general meeting At the annual general meeting held on 13th October 2016, votes cast in respect of the Directors remuneration report were as follows: Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of remuneration report 60,194,113 97.97% 1,249,698 2.03% 61,443,811 137,302 At the annual general meeting on 16th October 2014, votes cast by proxy in respect of the remuneration policy were as follows: Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of remuneration policy 52,998,077 86.42% 8,323,776 13.57% 61,321,853 623,285 The Company is required to provide in this report any reasons known to it for a significant percentage of votes against either the Directors remuneration report or the remuneration policy and any actions taken in response.
The Company deems a significant percentage of votes against as being more than 20%.
No commentary is therefore necessary in respect of the voting on either of the above resolutions.
This report was approved by the Board of directors and has been signed on its behalf by: Kath Durrant Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27th July 2017 93
