68 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2017.
This report complies with the UK Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations 2013 and contains: The new directors remuneration policy, which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM on 20 September 2017: and The Annual report on remuneration, describing how the remuneration policy that was approved by shareholders at the AGM in September 2014 has been put into practice during the year ended 30 June 2017.
Diageos remuneration principles The principles underpinning executive remuneration remain fundamentally unchanged, with sustainable performance and long-term value creation for shareholders at the heart of our remuneration policies and practices: Delivery of business strategy: Shortand long-term incentive plans for Executive Directors and senior managers reward the achievement of Diageos business strategy and performance goals.
Sustainable, long-term performance: The focus is on the delivery of performance in a consistent and responsible way which also creates long-term value for our shareholders.
Alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders remains a key principle, with Executive Directors required to acquire and hold Diageo shares over the long term.
Performance-related compensation: Reward components offer a balanced mix of shortand long-term incentives conditional upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Performance measures such as organic net sales, profit growth, cash efficiency and relative total shareholder return TSR are key drivers of growth for the business that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Competitive total remuneration: Reward levels are framed in the context of total remuneration packages paid by relevant global comparators.
In competition with similar global companies, the ability to recruit and retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to Diageos continued business success.
Simplicity and transparency: The Committee seeks to embed simplicity and transparency in the design and delivery of executive reward programmes.
Performance targets clearly align with the companys shortand long-term goals.
Remuneration in 2017 at a glance Base salary 2% increases for both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in October 2017 versus budgeted 2.5% in the United Kingdom and 3% in the United States for the wider workforce Allowances and benefits Unchanged from last year Retirement benefits Chief Executives pension contribution reduced from 40% to 30% of salary from 1 July 2016 Annual incentive Pay-out above target, delivering 68.0% and 69.7% of maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively Long-term incentives Nil vesting of performance shares and share options As a result of the long-term incentive performance conditions not being achieved, total variable pay to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in respect of the year ended 30 June 2017 is 35% and 50% lower respectively than in the year ended 30 June 2016.
Over the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2017 the performance period for long-term incentive awards that vest in September 2017, Diageos share price grew by 19%, from 1902.5 pence to 2268.5 pence, and the company paid a total dividend of 171.3 pence per share.
Dividend distribution to shareholders in the year ended 30 June 2017 was increased by 5% compared to the previous year.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 Looking ahead Following a comprehensive review of the effectiveness of the directors remuneration policy in the context of the external viewpoints of the investor community, the Committee concluded that the policy remains in line with business strategy and well-aligned to shareholder interests.
As a result, there have been no material changes to the remuneration policy in terms of the design or quantum of executive remuneration.
The key changes to the remuneration policy are as follows: Reduction of maximum company pension contribution from 30% to 20% of salary for new hires: Bringing executive pension arrangements more in line with the pension arrangements for other employees in the United Kingdom and United States, as well as enabling consistency in approach for the rest of the Executive Committee.
Significant increase to the Chief Executives shareholding requirement from 300% to 500% of salary, and for the Chief Financial Officer from 250% to 400% of salary: Positioning the shareholding requirement at or above the face value of their long-term incentive award opportunity after tax.
Restriction on selling shares of 50% of the executives vested long-term incentive awards after the sale of shares to cover tax, until the shareholding requirement is met: To support executives meeting their shareholding requirements within five years of appointment.
Throughout the remuneration policy review, the company has proactively engaged with its largest shareholders to understand their views on the policy proposals, as well as continuing an open dialogue on the ongoing appropriateness of executive shortand long-term incentive plan design, the level of stretch in performance measures as part of the target-setting process, and ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain the highest quality global talent.
Whilst arrangements that defer part of the annual bonus into shares are common practice in the FTSE 100, the Committee is satisfied that the companys current annual bonus structure payable entirely in cash remains appropriate, as the increased shareholding requirement, the level of stretch in the long-term incentive plan, and the post-vesting holding period in concert provide appropriate alignment of executives with the interests of shareholders in fostering sustainable share price growth over the long term.
There are also robust clawback and malus provisions under both the annual and long-term incentive plans, which apply to all members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee remains confident that the mix of performance shares and share options is an appropriate long-term incentive for the leaders of the business, and the share options element provides an additional stretch in that the share price has to grow materially in addition to the performance condition being achieved in order for it to provide value for executives.
This strengthens the alignment between executives and shareholders in the commitment to fostering sustainable share price growth.
Share option plans remain majority practice within Diageos international peer group, against which the company needs to remain competitive in order to attract and retain the highest calibre of talent.
The directors remuneration policy will be put forward for your consideration and approval by binding vote, and the annual remuneration report by advisory vote at the AGM on 20 September 2017.
We were very pleased to receive a strong vote in favour of our remuneration report last year.
I highly value the direct engagement and feedback from our shareholders and their representative bodies on Diageos remuneration policy and look forward to welcoming you and receiving your support again at the AGM this year.
Lord Davies of Abersoch Senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
