70 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Directors remuneration report performance measures that are identified as key consistent and Directors responsible growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
remuneration policy Variable with performance: A significant proportion of total remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business and individual performance so that remuneration will increase or This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors decrease in line with performance.
The proposed policy is broadly consistent with the Share ownership: Full participation in incentives is conditional policy approved in 2014, save for the changes highlighted in the upon building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement.
The policy will be to ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
put to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the AGM in 2017, in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, and, Cost effectiveness: Fixed elements of remuneration are if approved, will formally come into effect from 20 September 2017, determined by reference to the median of the market, individual the date of the AGM.
experience and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure competitiveness while controlling fixed costs to Remuneration policy framework maximise efficiency.
The remuneration structures and performance measures used in executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business Future policy table strategy as follows: Set out below is the remuneration policy for Executive Directors Focused on consistent growth drivers: As a public limited which, if approved by shareholders, will be applied from the date company, Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise of the AGM on 20 September 2017. long-term value for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the achievement of Base salary Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Supports the attraction and retention of the best global talent with Provides market competitive and cost effective benefits.
the capability to deliver Diageos strategy and performance goals.
Operation Operation The provision of benefits depends on the country of residence Normally reviewed annually or following a change in of the Executive Director and may include but is not limited to responsibilities with any increases usually taking effect from a company car or car allowance, the provision of a car and 1 October.
contracted car service or equivalent, product allowance, life insurance, accidental death & disability insurance, medical The Remuneration Committee considers the following cover, financial counselling and tax advice.
parameters when reviewing base salary levels: The Remuneration Committee has discretion to offer additional Pay increases for other employees across the group.
allowances, or benefits, to Executive Directors, if considered Economic conditions and governance trends.
These may include relocation The individuals performance, skills and responsibilities.
expenses, housing allowance and school fees where a Director Base salaries and total remuneration at companies of is asked to relocate from his her home location as part of their similar size and international scope to Diageo, with roles appointment.
typically benchmarked against the FTSE 30 excluding financial services companies, or against similar comparator Opportunity groups in other locations dependent on the Executive The benefits package is set at a level which the Remuneration Directors home market.
Committee considers: Provides an appropriate level of benefits depending on the role Opportunity and individual circumstances: Salary increases will be made in the context of the broader employee pay environment, and will normally be in line with Is appropriate in the context of the benefits offered to the those made to other employees in relevant markets in which wider workforce in the relevant market, and Diageo operates, typically the United Kingdom and the United Is in line with comparable roles in companies of a similar size States, unless there is a change in role or responsibility or other and complexity in the relevant market.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 Post-retirement provisions disclosed retrospectively in next years Annual report on remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially Purpose and link to strategy sensitive by the Board.
Provides cost-effective, competitive post-retirement benefits.
Operation Provision of market competitive pension arrangements or a Diageo long-term incentive plan DLTIP cash alternative based on a percentage of base salary.
Purpose and link to strategy Further detail on current pension provisions for Executive Provides focus on delivering superior long-term returns to Directors is disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration.
Opportunity Operation The maximum company pension contribution is 20% of base An annual grant of performance shares and or market price salary for any new external appointments to an Executive share options which vest subject to a performance test and Director position.
continued employment normally over a period of three years.
Current legacy company contributions for Ivan Menezes and Measures and stretching targets are reviewed annually by the Kathryn Mikells in the year ended 30 June 2017 were 30% and Remuneration Committee for each new award.
Details of the 20% of base salary respectively.
At his request, Ivan Menezes measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial company contribution was reduced from 40% to 30% effective year under review are provided in the Annual report on 1 July 2016. remuneration.
Following vesting there is a further retention period of two years.
Executive Directors are able to exercise an option or sell Annual incentive plan AIP sufficient shares to cover any tax liability when an award vests, provided they retain the net shares arising for the two-year Purpose and link to strategy retention period.
Incentivises year on year delivery of Diageos annual financial and strategic targets.
Provides focus on key financial metrics and the Notional dividends accrue on performance share awards to the individuals contribution to the companys performance.
extent that the performance conditions have been met, delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the Operation Remuneration Committee at the end of the vesting period.
Performance measures, weightings and targets are set annually The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares by the Remuneration Committee.
Appropriately stretching which vest subject to HMRC rules regarding approved share targets are set by reference to the annual operating plan and options, for example in the event of a material performance historical and projected performance for the company and its failure, or a material restatement of the financial statements.
There is an extensive malus clause for awards made from The level of award is determined with reference to Diageos September 2014.
The Committee has discretion to decide that: overall financial and strategic performance and individual the number of shares subject to the award will be reduced: performance and is paid out in cash after the end of the the award will lapse: financial year.
retention shares i. e. vested shares subject to the additional The Committee has discretion to adjust the level of payment two-year retention period will be forfeited: if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the individuals vesting of the award or the end of any retention period will contribution or the overall business performance.
Any be delayed e. g. until an investigation is completed : discretionary adjustments will be detailed in the following additional conditions will be imposed on the vesting of the years Annual report on remuneration.
award or the end of the retention period: and or The Committee has discretion to apply clawback to bonus, i. e. any award, bonus or other benefit which might have been the company may seek to recover bonus paid in exceptional granted or paid to the participant in any later year will be circumstances, such as gross misconduct or gross negligence reduced or not awarded.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply up to delivery of Details of the AIP for 2017 are set out in the Annual report on shares at the end of the retention period as opposed to the remuneration on pages 77 and 78. vesting date.
The company also has the standard discretion to take account of unforeseen events such as a variation to Opportunity share capital.
For threshold performance, up to 50% of salary may be earned, Under the DLTIP plan rules, long-term incentive awards, when with up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance aggregated with awards under all of the companys other share and a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding plans, will not exceed 10% of the companys issued share capital performance.
adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in any rolling Performance conditions 10-year period.
In addition, awards under executive schemes will Annual incentive plan awards are based 70%-100% on financial not exceed 5% of the companys issued share capital in any measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures of rolling 10-year period.
revenue, profit and cash and 0%-30% on broader objectives Further details of the DLTIP are set out in the Annual report based on strategic goals and or individual contribution.
Details on remuneration on pages 78-80. of the measures and weightings applicable for the year ending 30 June 2018 are set out on page 78.
Details of the targets will be 72 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Directors remuneration report Opportunity Shareholding requirement The maximum annual grants for the Chief Executive and Chief Purpose and link to strategy Financial Officer are 500% and 480% of salary in performance Ensures alignment between the interests of Executive Directors share equivalents respectively where a market price option is and shareholders.
valued at one-third of a performance share.
Under the DLTIP no more than 375% of salary will be awarded in face value Operation terms in options to any Executive Director in any year.
The minimum shareholding requirement is 500% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 400% of base salary for any Threshold vesting level of 20% of maximum with straight line other Executive Directors.
vesting up to 100% at maximum for attaining financial metrics and a ranking profile for relative total shareholder return.
Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding within five years of their appointment to Performance conditions the Board.
The vesting of awards is linked to a range of measures which Executive Directors will be restricted from selling more than may include, but are not limited to: 50% of shares which vest under the long-term incentive plan a growth measure e. g. net sales, profit growth : excluding the sale of shares to cover tax on vesting and other a measure of efficiency e. g. operating margin, cumulative exceptional circumstances to be specifically approved by the free cash flow, return on invested capital ROIC : and Chief Executive and or Chairman, until the shareholding a measure of Diageos relative performance in relation to its requirement is met.
peers e. g. relative total shareholder return.
Measures that apply to performance shares and market price options may differ, as is the case for current awards.
Weightings Chairman of the board and non-executive directors of these measures may vary year-on-year.
Details of the Purpose and link to strategy measures, including targets for the awards to be made in Supports the attraction, motivation and retention of world-class September 2017 are set out on page 80. talent and reflects the value of the individual, their skills and The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the experience, and performance.
performance conditions in exceptional circumstances if it considers it appropriate to do so, e. g. in cases of accounting Operation Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are policy changes, merger and acquisition activities and disposals.
normally reviewed every two years.
Any such amendments would be fully disclosed and explained in the following years Annual report on remuneration.
A proportion of the Chairmans annual fee is used for the monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be retained until the Chairman retires from the company or ceases All-employee share plans to be a Director.
Purpose and link to strategy Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in the FTSE 30, To encourage broader employee share ownership through excluding financial services companies, and anticipated locally approved plans.
workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate Operation in any of the companys incentive plans nor do they receive The company operates tax-efficient all-employee share pension contributions or benefits.
Their travel and savings plans in various jurisdictions.
accommodation expenses in connection with the attendance Executive Directors eligibility may depend on their country of Board meetings and any tax thereon are paid by the company.
of residence, tax status and employment company.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are eligible to Opportunity receive a product allowance or cash equivalent at the same Limits for all-employee share plans are set by the tax authorities.
level as the Executive Directors.
The company may choose to set its own lower limits.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
Performance conditions A summary of their terms and conditions of appointment is UK Freeshares: based on Diageo plc financial measures which available at www.
com en our-business corporatemay include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, profit governance compliance.
The Chairman of the Board, and cash.
Javier Ferrn, was appointed on 1 January 2017, under a letter of appointment for an initial three-year term, terminable on six months notice by either party or, if terminated by the company, by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
Opportunity Fees for Non-Executive Directors are within the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, with an aggregate limit of 1,200,000, excluding the Chairmans fees.
Current fee levels are disclosed in the Annual report on remuneration on page 85.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target pay-out of NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE 50% of the maximum annual bonus and threshold performance vesting for long-term incentive awards of 20% of maximum award.
Performance measures and targets The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay-out of annual and Further details of AIP performance measures and DLTIP performance long-term incentives.
measures and targets that will apply for awards made in September 2017, and how they are aligned with company strategy and the Approach to recruitment remuneration creation of shareholder value, are set out in the Annual report on The Remuneration Committees overarching principle for recruitment remuneration, on pages 78 and 80. remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract an Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, and Executive Director of the calibre required to shape and deliver take into account the companys strategic priorities and business Diageos business strategy in recognition that Diageo competes for environment.
The Committee sets targets based on a range of talent in a global marketplace.
The Committee will seek to align the reference points including the corporate strategy and broker remuneration package with Diageos remuneration policy as laid out forecasts for both Diageo and its peers.
above, but retains the discretion to offer a remuneration package which is necessary to meet the individual circumstances of the Differences in remuneration policy for other employees recruited Executive Director and to enable the hiring of an individual The remuneration approach for Executive Directors is consistent with with the necessary skills and expertise.
However, except as described the reward package for members of the Executive Committee and below, variable pay will follow the policy.
Diageo is a global organisation operating in more than 180 Generally speaking, a much higher proportion of total countries around the world.
The ability, therefore, to recruit and retain remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business the best talent from all over the world is critical to the future success performance, compared to the rest of the employee population, of the business.
People diversity in all its forms is a core element of so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with business Diageos global talent strategy and, managed effectively, is a key performance and to align the interests of Executive Directors and driver that will deliver Diageos performance ambition.
The structure of the reward package for the wider On appointment of an external Executive Director, the Committee employee population is based on the principle that it should be may decide to compensate for variable remuneration elements the sufficient to attract and retain the best talent and be competitive Director forfeits when leaving their current employer.
In doing so, the within our broader industry, remunerating employees for their Committee will ensure that any such compensation would have a fair contribution linked to our holistic performance whilst mindful not value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, and would to overpay.
It is driven by local market practice as well as level of generally be determined on a comparable basis taking into account seniority and accountability, reflecting the global nature of factors including the form in which the awards were granted, Diageos business.
performance conditions attached, the probability of the awards Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy vesting e. g. past, current and likely future performance as well as the The graphs below illustrate scenarios for the projected total vesting schedules.
Depending on individual circumstances at the remuneration of Executive Directors at three different levels of time, the Committee has the discretion to determine the type of performance: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Note that the award i. e. cash, shares or options, holding period and whether or not projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
These charts reflect projected remuneration for the financial year Any such award would be fully disclosed and explained in the ending 30 June 2018. following years Annual report on remuneration.
When exercising its discretion in establishing the reward package for a new Executive Ivan Menezes Director, the Committee will carefully consider the balance between the need to secure an individual in the best interests of the Minimum 100% Total $2,149 1,692 company against the concerns of investors about the quantum of 40% 30% 30% Total $5,312 4,183 On Target remuneration and, if considered appropriate at the time, will consult with the companys biggest shareholders.
The Remuneration Maximum 16% 24% 60% Total $13,219 10,408 Committee will provide timely disclosure of the reward package of Thousands $ 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 any new Executive Director.
In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, Kathryn Mikells legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including Total $1,286 1,013 pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
Minimum 100% 39% 31% 30% Total $3,325 2,618 On Target Maximum 15% 25% 60% Total $8,360 6,583 Thousands $ 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Salary, bene ts and pension Long term incentives Annual incentive Basis of calculation and assumptions: The Minimum scenario shows fixed remuneration only, i. e. base salary for the year ending 30 June 2018, total value of contractually agreed benefits for 2018, and the pension benefits to be accrued over the year ending 30 June 2018.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which are not subject to performance conditions.
74 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Directors remuneration report Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office including takeover provisions Executive Directors have rolling service contracts, details of which are set out below.
These are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Ivan Menezes 7 May 2013 Kathryn Mikells 1 October 2015 Notice period The contracts provide for a period of six months notice by the Executive Director or 12 months notice by the company.
A payment may be made in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary and the cost to the company of providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
The service contracts also provide for the payment of outstanding pay and bonus, if Executive Directors are terminated following a takeover, or other change of control of Diageo plc.
If, on the termination date, the Executive Director has exceeded his her accrued holiday entitlement, the value of such excess may be deducted by the company from any sums due to him her, except to the extent that such deduction would subject the Executive Director to additional tax under Section 409A of the Code in the case of Ivan Menezes.
If the Executive Director on the termination date has accrued but untaken holiday entitlement, the company will, at its discretion, either require the Executive Director to take such unused holiday during any notice period or make a payment to him her in lieu of it, provided always that if the employment is terminated for cause then the Executive Director will not be entitled to any such payment.
For these purposes, salary in respect of one day of holiday entitlement will be calculated as 1 261 of salary.
Mitigation The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to require a proportion of the termination payment to be paid in instalments and, upon the Executive Director commencing new employment, to be subject to mitigation except where termination is within 12 months of a takeover, or within such 12 months the Executive Director leaves due to a material diminution in status.
Annual incentive Where the Executive Director leaves for reasons including retirement, death in service, disability, ill-health, injury, plan AIP redundancy, transfer out of the group and other circumstances at the Remuneration Committees discretion Good Leaver Reasons during the financial year, they are usually entitled to an incentive payment pro-rated for the period of service during the performance period, which is typically payable at the usual payment date.
Where the Executive Director leaves for any other reason, no payment will be made.
The amount is subject to performance conditions being met and at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has discretion to determine an earlier payment date, for example on death in service.
Diageo 2014 longWhen an Executive Director leaves for any reason other than Good Leaver Reasons, all unvested awards generally term incentive plan lapse immediately.
In cases where Good Leaver Reasons apply, awards vest on the original vesting date unless the DLTIP Remuneration Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
The retention period for vested awards continues for all leavers other than in cases of disability, ill health or death in service, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The proportion of the award released depends on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
The number of shares is reduced on a pro-rata basis reflecting the length of time the Executive Director was employed by the company during the performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
On a takeover or other corporate event, awards vest subject to the extent to which the performance conditions are met and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, the awards are time pro-rated.
Otherwise the Committee, in agreement with the new company, may decide that awards should be swapped for awards over shares in the new company: where awards are granted in the form of options then on vesting they are generally exercisable for 12 months or six months for approved options.
Awards may be adjusted on a variation of share capital, demerger or other similar event.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the plans, except that any changes to the advantage of participants require shareholder approval, unless the change relates to the administration, or taxation of the plan or participants, or is needed to ensure that the plans operate effectively in another jurisdiction.
Details of existing awards are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Repatriation In cases where an Executive Director was recruited from outside the United Kingdom and has been relocated to the United Kingdom as part of their appointment, the company will pay reasonable costs for the repatriation of Good Leavers.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 Consideration of shareholder views Non-Executive Directors unexpired terms of appointment All Non-Executive Directors are on three-year terms which are The Committee values the continued dialogue with Diageos expected to be extended up to a total of nine years.
The date of initial shareholders and engages directly with them and their appointment to the Board and the point at which the current letter representative bodies at the earliest opportunity to take their views into account when setting and implementing the companys of appointment expires for Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
This year, the company has engaged extensively with shareholders and their proxy advisers about the new Date of appointment Current letter of Non-Executive Directors to the Board appointment expires at AGM directors remuneration policy, as well as the base salary proposals for 2017, shortand long-term incentive plan design and target setting Javier Ferrn 22 July 2016 September 2019 for long-term incentive awards to be made in 2017.
Lord Davies of Abersoch 1 September 2010 September 2019 Peggy B Bruzelius 24 April 2009 September 2018 Betsy D Holden 1 September 2009 September 2018 Ho KwonPing 1 October 2012 September 2018 Nicola S Mendelsohn 1 September 2014 September 2017 Philip G Scott 17 October 2007 September 2017 Alan JH Stewart 1 September 2014 September 2017 External appointments Executive Directors may accept external appointments as NonExecutive Directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them, subject to the specific approval of the Board in each case.
Payments under previous policies The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i under a previous policy, in which case the provision of that policy shall continue to apply until such payments have been made: ii before the policy or the relevant legislation came into effect: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the company.
For these purposes, payments include the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to awards of shares, the terms of the payment which are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in thecompany When reviewing and determining pay for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the level and structure of remuneration as well as salary budgets for other employees in the group.
More specifically, the Committee reviews annual salary increase budgets for the general employee population in the United Kingdom and United States as well as the remuneration structure and policy for the global senior management population.
Diageo employs 30,400 employees and operates in more than 180 countries around the world.
Diageo runs annual employee surveys which give employees the opportunity to give feedback and express their views on a variety of topics, including remuneration.
Any comments relating to Executive Directors remuneration are fed back to the Remuneration Committee.
