Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Legacy schemes 28.
Obligations under leases Value-sharing plan VSP Operating lease agreements The VSP award was an annual award introduced during the year ended 31 May 2011.
In the year ended 31 May 2014 the VSP was The Group and Company have entered into commercial leases on certain properties.
Future minimum rentals payable under replaced by the SPP and LTIP schemes.
VSP awards were conditional awards made available to Executive Directors and other senior non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: staff.
Participants do not pay to receive awards or to exercise options.
The VSP performance period is over three years with a pre-defined number of shares allocated, for each 10 million of surplus shareholder value created over the three-year period above a hurdle.
Half of the shares vest after three years and can be exercised at that date, with the remaining half being deferred for a further year, conditional upon 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 continued employment at the vesting date.
The VSP is based upon two performance conditions, Total Shareholder Return TSR and profit m m Group before taxation.
Future minimum payments due: The maximum number of VSP shares that vested during the year based on the awards made are: Not later than one year 7.0 6.6 After one year but not more than five years 17.3 20.6 Share price Expected At the start Awarded during Lapsed during Exercised At the end at award vesting date of the year the year the year during the year of the year After more than five years 7.5 9.1 Award date Number Number Number Number Number 31.8 36.3 20 Jul 2011 450.00p 31 Jul 2015 2,344 2,344 Total 2,344 2,344 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 m m Company Of the above VSP exercised during the year ended 31 May 2017, the share price at exercise was: Future minimum payments due: Award date Share price at exercise Not later than one year 2.4 2.3 After one year but not more than five years 8.2 9.8 20 Jul 2011 951.00p After more than five years 7.5 8.0 18.1 The weighted average exercise price of all VSP awards is 0.005p.
20.1 Legacy long-term incentive plan LTIP 29.
Related parties and transactions with Directors The historic LTIP awards were made available to Executive Directors and other senior staff in the years ended 31 May 2005 to 31 May 2010 The Group and Company had no transactions with its Directors other than those disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
which were then replaced by the VSP award.
These historic LTIP awards allowed the award of nil cost or nominal cost shares which were legally classified as options and vested when Group specific performance targets were achieved, conditional upon continued employment at the vesting date.
For each award a minimum The Directors and other members of management classified as persons discharging management responsibility in accordance with the performance target had to be achieved before any options vested and the awards vested fully once the maximum performance target Financial Services and Markets Act are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group in accordance with IAS 24.
Directors Remuneration Report discloses all benefits and share-based payments earned during the year and the preceding year by the Directors.
The total compensation for key management personnel together with their connected parties was as follows: During the year ended 31 May 2017 all LTIP awards were exercised: 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 Expected At the start Awarded during Lapsed during Exercised At the end Share price at award vesting date of the year the year the year during the year of the year m m Award date Number Number Number Number Number Short-term employee benefits 3.9 3.2 23 Jul 2007 312.25p 23 Jul 2010 15,952 15,952 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 15,952 Total 15,952 Share-based payments 3.4 2.9 7.4 6.5 The weighted average exercise price of all LTIP awards is 0.005p.
Capital commitments The Company had the following amounts outstanding with subsidiaries at the year-end: The Group and Company had nil capital expenditure contracted for at 31 May 2017 but not yet incurred 31 May 2016: 0.7 million.
31 May 2017 31 May 2016 m m Loans to related parties 133.0 131.5 150.8 Loans from related parties 28.6 All amounts remain outstanding at the year-end and are repayable on demand.
Intercompany amounts were subject to offset arrangements during the year.
| | 122 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 123 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Financial instrument valuation hierarchy 30.
Financial instruments The hierarchy of the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value is as follows: Accounting classifications and fair values Group The table below sets out the classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values.
The Group considers the Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair value carrying value of all financial assets and liabilities to be a reasonable approximation of fair value and represents the Groups maximum credit m m m m Group exposure as at balance sheet date without taking account of any collateral held.
As at 31 May 2017 Trade receivables - due from brokers represent balances with brokers where the combination of cash held on account disclosed as loans Financial assets: and receivables and the valuation of financial derivative open positions disclosed as held for trading results in an amount due to the Group.
These positions are held to hedge client market exposures and hence are considered to be held for trading and are accordingly Trade receivables due to brokers 0.6 17.9 18.5 accounted for at fair value through profit and loss FVTPL.
These positions are reported net in the Group Statement of Financial Position as Financial investments 144.4 144.4 there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally enforceable right is in the normal course of business.
Level 1 assets are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes the Groups open exchange-traded hedging positions.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the period-end The Groups financial instruments are classified as follows: bid price.
Total Level 2 assets are valued using techniques where a price is derived based significantly on observable market data.
For example, where FVTPL - Loans and Amortised Availablecarrying an active market for an identical financial instrument to the product offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge its held for trading receivables cost for-sale amount Fair value market risk does not exist.
This category includes the Groups open non-exchange-traded hedging positions, and these comprise shares, Group Note m m m m m m foreign currency and foreign currency options.
The fair values used in the valuation of these products are sometimes brokered values and As at 31 May 2017 may occur after the close of a market but before the measurement date.
The effects of discounting are generally insignificant for these Level 2 financial instruments.
Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 17 230.9 230.9 230.9 Level 3 assets are valued using techniques that incorporate information other than observable market data that is significant to the Financial investments 19 144.4 144.4 144.4 overall valuation.
Trade receivables due to from brokers: There have been no changes in the valuation techniques for any of the Groups financial instruments held at fair value in the year year Non-exchange traded instruments 17.9 299.5 281.6 281.6 ended 31 May 2016: none.
There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Exchange-traded instruments 0.6 32.0 31.4 31.4 Level 3 fair value measurements for years ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016.
Total trade receivables due to from brokers 18.5 331.5 313.0 313.0 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair value Trade receivables due from clients 16 1.1 1.1 1.1 Trade receivables own funds in client money 16 43.4 43.4 43.4 Group m m m m 18.5 606.9 144.4 732.8 732.8 As at 31 May 2016 Financial liabilities: Financial assets: Trade payables client funds held on balance sheet 20 117.1 117.1 117.1 Trade receivables due to brokers 13.5 1.0 14.5 Trade payables amounts due to clients 20 0.2 0.2 0.2 Financial investments 136.0 136.0 Redeemable preference shares 23 0.2 117.1 117.3 117.3 Groups valuation processes The Groups finance department includes a team that performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, Total including Level 3 fair values where applicable.
FVTPL - Loans and Amortised Availablecarrying held for trading receivables cost for-sale amount Fair value Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost Group Note m m m m m m The fair value of the following financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying amount: As at 31 May 2016 Trade and other receivables excluding the Groups open financial derivative hedging positions with brokers above Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalent Cash and cash equivalents 17 218.8 218.8 218.8 Trade and other payables Financial investments 19 136.0 136.0 136.0 Trade receivables due to from brokers: Non-exchange traded instruments 1.0 226.4 225.4 225.4 Exchange-traded instruments 13.5 33.6 20.1 20.1 Total trade receivables due to from brokers 14.5 260.0 245.5 245.5 Trade receivables due from clients 16 2.2 2.2 2.2 Trade receivables own funds in client money 16 30.8 30.8 30.8 14.5 511.8 136.0 633.3 633.3 Financial liabilities: Trade payables client funds held on balance sheet 20 39.0 39.0 39.0 Trade payables amounts due to clients 20 4.4 4.4 4.4 Redeemable preference shares 23 4.4 39.0 43.4 43.4 | | 124 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 125 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Accounting classifications and fair values Company 31.
Financial risk management Financial risks arising from financial instruments are analysed into market, credit, concentration and liquidity risks.
Details of how these risks Total are managed are discussed in the risk management section on page 35.
FVTPL - Loans and Amortised Availablecarrying held for trading receivables cost for-sale amount Fair value Company m m m m m m Market risk Market risk for accounting standards disclosure requirements is analysed into these categories: As at 31 May 2017 Financial assets: Market price risk non-trading interest rate and price risk Amounts due from Group companies note 29 133.0 133.0 133.0 Foreign currency risk 133.0 133.0 133.0 Where applicable the quantified maximum exposures for the Group from each risk category are disclosed below: Financial liabilities: Amounts due to Group companies note 29 150.8 150.8 150.8 Non-trading interest rate risk 150.8 150.8 150.8 The Group has interest rate risk relating to financial instruments on its Statement of Financial Position not held at fair value through profit or loss.
These exposures are not hedged.
The interest rate risk profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at each year-end was as follows: Total FVTPL - Loans and Amortised Availablecarrying held for trading receivables cost for-sale amount Fair value Within 1 year Between 2 and 5 years Total Company m m m m m m 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 As at 31 May 2016 m m m m m m Group Financial assets: Amounts due from Group companies note 29 131.5 131.5 131.5 Fixed rate: 131.5 131.5 131.5 Financial investments 144.4 136.0 92.0 111.0 52.4 25.0 Financial liabilities: Floating rate: Amounts due to Group companies note 29 28.6 28.6 28.6 Cash and cash equivalents 230.9 218.8 230.9 218.8 T rade receivables due from brokers 28.6 28.6 28.6 313.0 245.5 313.0 245.5 T rade payables client funds held on balance sheet 117.1 39.0 117.1 39.0 518.8 536.3 52.4 25.0 571.2 561.3 Items of income, expense, gains or losses Group All of the Group gains and losses arising from financial assets and liabilities classified as fair value through the profit and loss, held for There are no financial assets and liabilities which are held for a period over 5 years.
trading are included in net trading revenue for the year ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016.
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis non-traded interest fixed rate Details of finance income and finance costs are disclosed in notes 7 and 8 respectively.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The level of future fixed interest receivable would be similar to that received in the year and is considered immaterial to the Groups profit for the year.
Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis non-traded interest floating rate The following financial assets and liabilities have been offset on the Groups Statement of Financial Position and are subject to enforceable Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Trade receivables and payables master netting agreements.
include client and broker balances upon which interest is paid or received based upon market rates.
Gross amounts of Interest rate sensitivity has been performed on floating rate financial instruments by considering a 0.5% interest rate increase decrease on Gross amounts of recognised financial Net amounts of financial recognised liabilities set off in the assets presented in the the financial assets and liabilities held the Statement of Financial Position date.
The impact of such a movement on the Groups profit for financial assets balance sheet balance sheet the year is below.
Group Note m m m Year ended 31 May 2017 As at 31 May 2017 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables due from brokers Trade payables client funds held on balance sheet Trade receivables due from brokers 16 336.3 23.3 313.0 Impact - 1.2 - 1.6 - 0.6 336.3 23.3 313.0 Year ended 31 May 2016 In the table above the financial derivative open positions have been presented gross in accordance with whether positions held at brokers are in a profit or loss position, regardless of whether the Group had excess cash with each broker to meet the margin required.
Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables due from brokers Trade payables client funds held on balance sheet Impact - 1.1 - 1.2 - 0.2 Gross amounts of Gross amounts of recognised financial Net amounts of financial The net impact of such a movement in interest rates is considered to be immaterial to the Groups profit for the year.
Refer to note 7 and 8. recognised liabilities set off in the assets presented in the financial assets balance sheet balance sheet Group Note m m m As at 31 May 2016 Financial assets Trade receivables due from brokers 16 260.0 14.5 245.5 260.0 14.5 245.5 | | 126 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 127 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Price risk Credit risk The Group is exposed to investment securities price risk because financial investments held by the Group and classified on the Groups The principal sources of credit risk to our business are from financial institutions and individual clients.
Statement of Financial Position as available-for sale are based on closing market prices published by the UK Debt Management Office.
Financial institution credit risk The table below summarises the impact of increases decreases in value of financial investments on the Groups post-tax gain or loss on Client credit risk equity.
The analysis is based on the assumption that the value of financial investments have increased decreased by 1% with all other The analysis of neither past due nor impaired credit exposures in the following table excludes individual client funds held in segregated variables held constant: client money accounts.
Refer to section B, in the Other Information section, on page 140.
Year ended 31 May 2017 Year ended 31 May 2016 Cash and cash equivalents Trade receivables due from brokers Trade receivables due from clients Impact on available for sale reserve equity 1.4 1.4 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 The financial impact of such a movement in fair value is considered to be immaterial to the Groups available for sale reserve.
Group m m m m m m Individually impaired Foreign currency risk The Group faces foreign currency exposures on financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than its functional currency.
Gross exposure 14.1 18.8 The management of this risk is outlined in the risk management section on page 35.
This exposure is hedged in the normal course Allowance for impairment 13.9 17.6 of business.
0.2 1.2 The table below illustrates the sensitivity of net trading revenue with regard to currency movements on financial assets and liabilities Past due but not impaired denominated in currencies other than its functional currency which are not held at fair value through profit and loss as at the year-end.
Ageing profile: 0-3 months 0.1 0.4 Based on a 5% weakening in the following exchange rates, the effect on net trading revenue would be as follows: 0.1 0.4 Neither past due Year ended 31 May 2017 nor impaired US dollar Euro Yen South African rand Swiss franc Other Credit rating: Impact 4.3 5.7 0.4 0.3 0.6 0.3 AA & above 42.4 12.9 AA to AA- 7.0 6.1 49.7 16.9 A to A- 156.7 147.0 178.4 149.5 Year ended 31 May 2016 BBB to BBB- 24.0 52.4 69.0 73.9 US dollar Euro Yen South African rand Swiss franc Other BB to B 0.2 Impact 2.4 5.0 0.3 0.3 0.1 CCC Unrated 0.6 0.4 15.9 5.2 0.8 0.6 230.9 218.8 313.0 245.5 0.8 0.6 Since the impact of foreign exchange rate movements is hedged, the Group would experience an opposite foreign exchange gain for the losses above as a hedging gain, and vice versa.
Total carrying amount 230.9 218.8 313.0 245.5 1.1 2.2 Based on this analysis and the Groups hedging model the net impact of foreign exchange rate movements is considered immaterial to the Included in the unrated trade receivables due from brokers is 11.9 million 31 May 2016: 3.2 million of Bitcoin.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups net assets with regard to currency movements on financial assets and liabilities Impairment of trade receivables due from clients included in the balance sheets of non GBP functional currency entities which are denominated in the functional currency of that entity and The Group records specific impairments of trade receivables due from clients in a separate allowance account.
Impairments are recorded which are not held at fair value through profit and loss as at the year-end.
where the Group determines that it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts owing according to the contractual terms of the Based on a 5% weakening in the following exchange rates, the effect on the Groups net assets would be as follows: agreement.
There are no collective impairments taken, and no other assets are considered impaired.
Below is a reconciliation of changes in the separate allowance account during the year: Year ended 31 May 2017 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 US dollar Euro Yen South African rand Swiss franc Other Group m m Impact 3.0 1.5 1.0 0.3 0.5 0.7 Balance at 1 June 17.6 21.7 Impairment loss for the year: Year ended 31 May 2016 Gross charge for the year 6.2 4.0 US dollar Euro Yen South African rand Swiss franc Other Recoveries 4.1 2.4 Impact 1.5 0.3 0.8 0.4 0.6 2.6 Debts written off 8.0 6.6 Foreign exchange 2.2 0.9 13.9 Balance at 31 May 17.6 Since the impact of foreign exchange rate movements is hedged, the Group would experience an opposite foreign exchange gain for the losses above as a hedging gain, and vice versa.
The net impairment loss in the Income Statement during the year includes 0.9 million of debts written off.
Based on this analysis and the Groups hedging model the net impact of foreign exchange rate movements is considered immaterial to the Credit risk Company Groups net trading revenue.
Held within prepayments and other receivables in the Statement of Financial Position of the Company are amounts payable to the Company from related parties that are unrated.
| | 128 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 129 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Amounts payable on demand: Concentration risk The following table analyses the Groups credit exposures, at their carrying amounts, by geographical region and excludes individual client Derivative Non-derivative Total funds held in segregated client money accounts.
m m m During the year the management structure of the Group was refined and the CODM now receives information from the business on a basis As at 31 May 2016 different from previous years.
Accordingly the comparative year has been restated.
Financial assets: Analysis of credit exposures at carrying amount by geographical segment are detailed below.
These segments are disclosed based on how Cash and cash equivalents 218.8 218.8 the Groups operations are managed as discussed in note 3: Financial investments 136.0 136.0 Trade receivables due from brokers 14.5 260.0 245.5 UK EMEA APAC US Total Trade receivables due from clients 2.2 2.2 Group m m m m m Trade receivables own funds in client money 30.8 30.8 As at 31 May 2017 14.5 647.8 633.3 Financial assets: Financial liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents 91.0 94.7 9.1 36.1 230.9 Trade payables client funds held on balance sheet 39.0 39.0 Financial investments 144.4 144.4 Trade payables amounts due to clients 4.4 4.4 Trade receivables due from brokers 200.2 73.8 39.0 313.0 43.4 43.4 Trade receivables due from clients 0.5 0.4 0.2 1.1 Own funds in client money 32.7 1.0 9.7 43.4 Amounts payable over 5 years The Group has non-derivative cash flows payable over 5 years in relation to the redeemable preference shares at 31 May 2017 and 2016, as Total financial assets 468.8 169.9 58.0 36.1 732.8 disclosed in note 23.
UK EMEA APAC US Total Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity Company Group m m m m m There were no Company derivative cash flows as at 31 May 2017 2016: nil.
As at 31 May 2016 restated At 31 May 2017 the Company held cash and cash equivalents of nil 2016: nil available on demand and redeemable preference shares of Financial assets: 40,000 2016: 40,000, the terms of which are disclosed in note 23.
Subsequent events Trade receivables due from brokers 145.4 59.4 40.7 245.5 In June 2017 the Group renewed its 160.0 million revolving credit facility from a syndicate of four UK banks.
This facility has two tranches, Trade receivables due from clients 1.6 0.4 0.1 0.1 2.2 a 100.0 million tranche available for up to a 1 year term with an option to extend for a further year and a 60.0 million tranche available Own funds in client money 23.5 7.3 30.8 for up to 3 years.
450.1 100.5 55.9 26.8 633.3 Total financial assets A final dividend of 22.88p per share amounting to 83.9 million was proposed by the Board on 18 July 2017.
The Groups largest credit exposure to any one individual broker at 31 May 2017 was 67.1 million BBB rated 2016: 52.2 million BBB rated.
Included in cash and cash equivalents, the Groups largest credit exposure to any bank at 31 May 2017 was 69.4 million A rated 33.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and statement of compliance with IFRS 2016: 79.4 million, A rated.
The Group has no significant exposure to any one particular client or group of connected clients.
The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended 31 May 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 July 2017 and the Statements of Financial Position signed on the Boards behalf Liquidity risk by Paul Mainwaring.
IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company that is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity Group domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys registered address is 25 Dowgate Hill, London, United Kingdom, EC4R 2YA.
The following tables present the undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable excluding interest payments by the Group under The Groups Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by derivative and non-derivative financial assets and liabilities allocated to the earliest period in which either counterparty can be required to the European Union EU and with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Financial Statements have pay although the remaining contractual maturities may be longer.
been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets and liabilities including derivatives instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
Amounts payable on demand: The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires Derivative Non-derivative Total management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of m m m judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated Financial Statements are disclosed in note 1.
As at 31 May 2017 Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 230.9 230.9 34.
Accounting policies Financial investments 144.4 144.4 Basis of preparation Trade receivables due from brokers 18.5 331.5 313.0 The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2017.
Trade receivables due from clients 1.1 1.1 As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, the individual Income Statement of IG Group Holdings plc the 43.4 43.4 Trade receivables own funds in client money Company has not been presented in these Financial Statements.
The amount of loss for the year dealt with in the Financial Statements 18.5 751.3 732.8 of IG Group Holdings plc is 1.1 million 2016: profit for the year of 124.0 million.
A Statement of Comprehensive Income for IG Group Financial liabilities: Holdings plc has also not been presented in these Financial Statements.
No items of other comprehensive income arose in the year Trade payables client funds held on balance sheet 117.1 117.1 2016: nil.
Trade payables amounts due to clients 0.2 0.2 The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Financial Statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the 117.3 117.3 Groups Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2016.
| | 130 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 131 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the OTC leveraged derivatives New accounting standards and interpretations - standards Foreign currencies year are included in the consolidated Income Statement from the Revenue from the OTC leveraged derivatives business represents: and amendments adopted during the year The functional currency of each Company in the Group is that of effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, the country of incorporation as disclosed in note 35 as this is No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective for the i Fees paid by clients for spread, commission and funding charges as appropriate.
consistent with the primary economic environment in which the first time for the financial year beginning on or after 1 June 2016 in respect of the opening, holding and closing of financial spread entity operates.
The Groups most significant functional currency have had a material impact on the Group or parent Company.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Statements bets, contracts for difference or options contracts, together is sterling.
Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with with gains and losses for the Group arising on client trading the functional currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing Standards not yet adopted, but expected to those used by other members of the Group.
activity: less on the dates of the transactions.
At each Statement of Financial have significant impact on the Financial Statements b Non-controlling interests ii Fees paid by the Group in spread, commissions and funding Position date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in when adopted: Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a charges arising in respect of hedging the risk associated with foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective for annual periods forward contract under which the Group is required to purchase the the client trading activity and the Groups currency exposures, of exchange prevailing on the same date.
Non-monetary assets beginning on or after 1 January 2018 non-controlling interest for its fair value formulae based valuation, together with gains and losses incurred by the Group arising on and liabilities carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective for at the forward date, the Group continues to recognise the hedging activity currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 non-controlling interest at the proportionate share of the acquirees fair value was determined.
Gains and losses arising on translation Open client and hedging positions are fair valued on a daily basis IFRS 16, Leases effective for annual periods beginning on or identifiable net assets, until expiry of the arrangement.
The forward are taken to the Income Statement, except for exchange differences and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised after 1 January 2019 liability is also recognised for managements best estimate of the arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part of the in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on positions present value of the redemption amount with a corresponding entry Groups net investment in a foreign operation.
These are taken The impact of these standards on the Financial Statements is being that have closed.
The policies and methodologies associated in equity.
The accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which assessed by the Group but we do expect an impact on the level with the determination of fair value are disclosed in note 30, as a finance charge in the consolidated Income Statement.
The time they are recognised in profit or loss.
liability is re-measured to the final redemption amount with any On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised in the Exchange-traded derivatives Going concern operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing consolidated Income Statement.
On expiry of the forward, the Revenue from exchange-traded derivatives represents fees paid by The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a on the Statement of Financial Position date.
Income and expense liability is eliminated as paid and any difference in the value of the members of the Groups regulated futures and options exchange, going concern basis which requires the Directors to have a items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
non-controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity.
with members of the exchange charged a fee per transaction reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and undertaken, together with gains and losses incurred by the Group On an acquisition by acquisition basis non-controlling interests adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the taken directly to a translation reserve.
Such translation differences arising on its market making activity on the exchange.
are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest foreseeable future.
are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Share dealing the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments Revenue from Share Dealing represents commission earned arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets Basis of consolidation The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as from share dealing service after deducting contracting and trade and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
a Subsidiaries transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from settlement fees payable to third-party brokers.
Revenue is stated The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration net of sales taxes and is recognised in full on the date of trade Use of non-GAAP measures and exceptional items Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls its paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of the being placed.
subsidiaries made up to the reporting date as listed on page 138.
The Group believes that, where applicable, the presentation non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
of underlying results provides additional useful information to Investments Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a shareholders on the underlying trends and comparable performance Revenue from Investments represents management fees, which are being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the non-controlling of the Group over time.
These terms are not defined under IFRS earned as a percentage of assets under management.
These are to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess and any further and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit recognised over the period in which the service is provided.
comprises the power to govern the financial and operating losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities against the majority interest, except to the extent that the Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
The term and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting non-controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the underlying refers to the relevant profit, earnings or taxation being rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: make an additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is shown net of value reported excluding exceptional items.
or by way of contractual agreement.
The results, cash flows and subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the added tax after eliminating sales within the Group.
final positions of the subsidiaries used in the preparation of the Exceptional items are those items of income and expense that majority interests until the non-controlling shareholders share of Trading revenue is reported before introducing partner commission, consolidated Financial Statements are prepared for the same the Group considers are material one-off in nature and of such losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
along with betting duties and financial transaction taxes paid, which reporting year as the parent Company and are based on consistent significance that they merit separate presentation in order to aid the Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss are disclosed as an expense in arriving at net operating income.
All inter-company balances and transactions readers understanding of the Groups financial performance.
Such and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is between group entities, including unrealised profits arising from items would include profits or losses on disposal of businesses and presented within equity in the consolidated Statement of Financial Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the Consolidated them, are eliminated on consolidation.
costs associated with acquisitions and disposals: major restructuring Position, separately from parent shareholders equity.
Income Statement and in the notes to the Financial Statements, programmes: significant goodwill or other asset impairments: other represents trading revenue after taking account of introducing On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities particularly significant or unusual items.
partner commission as this is consistent with the management Segmental information of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of information received by the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Groups segmental information is disclosed in a manner acquisition.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value Other non-GAAP measures used in these Financial Statements are consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding components of consideration paid including an estimate of any contingent or capital resources refer to page 142 and own funds generated from Income received from clients for market data such as chart fees of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating deferred consideration.
Contingent or deferred consideration is operations refer to page 141. and income received from charging clients for funding using debit Decision Maker, who for the Group is the Executive Directors re-measured at each Statement of Financial Position date with and credit cards are netted within operating costs as the amounts CODM, in order to assess the performance and to allocate periodic changes to the estimated liability recognised in the Revenue recognition involved are not considered material.
resources to those operating segments.
The Group has therefore consolidated Income Statement.
Acquisition related costs are Trading revenue includes revenue arising from each of the Groups determined its operating segments based on the management expensed as incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over four revenue generation models: OTC Leveraged Derivatives, information received on a regular basis by the Executive Directors the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised Exchange Traded Derivatives, Share Dealing, and Investments.
of the IG Group Holdings plc Board as they are considered to be as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the the CODM.
Operating segments that do not meet the quantitative fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired discount on thresholds required by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
acquisition is credited to the Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
| | 132 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 133 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued are recognised for all temporary differences and deferred tax assets Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their expected Finance income and costs on segregated client funds Goodwill are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits useful lives, as follows: Interest income or expense on segregated client funds is accrued Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of will be available, against which deductible temporary differences on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the cost of acquisition fair value of consideration paid over Development costs Straight-line basis over 3 years may be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective interest rate is the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, temporary difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill or Software and licences Straight-line basis over the contract the rate which exactly discounts estimated future cash flows on the liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business at the date of from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of term of up to 5 years carrying amount of the asset liability.
Issue costs are included in the acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax determination of the effective interest rates.
to cash-generating units for purposes of impairment testing.
Trade names Straight-line basis over 2 years profit nor the accounting profit.
Cash-generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of Client lists and Interest income and interest expense on segregated client funds are Straight-line basis over 3 years assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary customer relationships disclosed within operating profit, as this is consistent with the nature the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, of the Groups operations.
Domain names and Straight-line basis over 10 years except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase generic top-level domains Dividends temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Statement whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
of Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised.
To the value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying value of Statement of Financial Position date and reduced to the extent extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders right to capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for impairment that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost receive the payment is established.
annually before being brought into use.
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the Income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted Statement.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity Employee benefits Impairment of non-financial assets basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
a Pension obligations At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
Contributions After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups property, plant enacted or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial are charged to the Income Statement as and when they become accumulated impairment losses, with the carrying value being and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there is Position date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income payable according to the rules of the schemes.
Once the reviewed for impairment, at least annually and whenever events any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Statement, except when it relates to items credited or charged contributions have been paid the Group has no legal or constructive or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may If any such indication exists or at least annually for goodwill, the directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with obligations to pay further contributions.
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine in equity.
the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not b Bonus schemes For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses based the related cash-generating units monitored by management.
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating on formulae that take into consideration the revenue or earnings Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
unit to which the asset belongs.
attributable to the Groups shareholders after certain adjustments than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment loss is and also based on operational non-financial measures.
recognised in the Income Statement.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs Property, plant and equipment and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future c Termination benefits Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating unit cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax Termination benefits are payable when an employment contract depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on disposal discount rate.
This rate reflects current market assessments of the is terminated by the Group.
The Group recognises termination the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other of the unit, or of an operation within it.
time value of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for benefits when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of consideration given to acquire the asset and includes costs directly which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Intangible assets If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment at its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced Operating leases and accumulated impairment losses.
rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual value and Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried expense immediately.
substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and residual values are initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as an An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there based on prices prevailing at the Statement of Financial Position combination such as a trade name or customer relationship is expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may date.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is separable systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern of the no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, expected useful lives as follows: or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value users benefit.
the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on internally developed Leasehold improvements Over the lease term of up to 15 years impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Taxation the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount Office equipment, Income Statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Development Over 5 years The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case, fixtures and fittings expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after all the and movements in deferred tax.
the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable following criteria are met: Computer and Over 2, 3 or 5 years amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount other equipment The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
The projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can that would have been determined, had no impairment loss been Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income be demonstrated recognised for the asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are The availability of adequate technical and financial resources and loss is recognised as income immediately, although impairment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items an intention to complete the project have been confirmed losses relating to goodwill may not be reversed.
the carrying value may not be recoverable, and are written down that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current The correlation between development costs and future revenue immediately to their recoverable amount.
tax is calculated using tax rates in the respective jurisdictions that has been established Investments in subsidiaries have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Statement of An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated Financial Position date.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise impairment losses.
less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Deferred tax is accounted for on all temporary differences from the continued use of the asset.
The gain or loss arising on between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference between Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
| | 134 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 135 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities At present there is a lack of guidance in IFRS on how any such investment is determined to be impaired.
On disposal of Financial instruments A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin should be accounted for and an investment, the accumulated unrealised gain or loss included Classification, recognition and measurement contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expired.
This product is used in a similar manner in equity is recycled to the Income Statement for the period The Group determines the classification of its financial instruments to using broking counterparties for hedging purposes and not and reported in other income.
Gains and losses on disposal are at initial recognition in accordance with the categories outlined a Financial assets held with a view to making a profit or loss for the Group.
Whilst it determined using the average cost method.
below and re-evaluates this designation at each financial year-end.
A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash does not strictly meet the definition of a financial asset we have When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to Interest on financial investments is included in finance income using accounted for the Bitcoin as a financial asset and disclosed the measured at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation the Effective Interest Rate EIR method.
Bitcoin values within amounts due from brokers as Bitcoin is used of financial assets and financial liabilities not at fair value through to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a in a similar manner to the financial assets held with our brokers.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Financial pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected instruments are disclosed in note 30 to the Financial Statements.
to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred Prepayments and other receivables life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has neither Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial a Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted or loss When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
Where the Group in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, cash flows considering all contractual terms of the financial has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from an asset and been designated as fair value through profit or loss.
Such assets are or designated as such on inception, are included in this category instrument for example, prepayment, call and similar options but has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the and relate to the financial derivative open positions included in shall not consider future credit losses.
The calculation includes all rewards of the asset nor transferred control of the asset, the asset time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised trade receivables due from brokers and trade payables due to fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract is recognised to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, and clients as shown in the Statement of Financial Position and related that are an integral part of the effective interest rate see IAS 18 in the asset.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a when economic benefit is consumed.
A provision for impairment is notes.
Financial instruments are classified as held for trading if they Revenue, transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts.
guarantee over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the established where there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
are expected to settle in the short-term.
The Group uses derivative original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of At the year-end date the Group considers whether there is financial instruments, in order to hedge derivative exposures Cash and cash equivalents consideration that the Group could be required to repay.
objective evidence that a financial investment is impaired.
In case arising from open client positions, which are also classified as held Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may be of such evidence, it is considered impaired if its cost exceeds the for trading.
b Financial liabilities accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise short-term recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount for a quoted financial A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known All financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are investment is determined by reference to the market price.
A liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value with quoted financial investment is considered impaired if objective financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on changes in value.
For the purposes of the consolidated Cash Flow gains or losses recognised in revenue in the Consolidated evidence indicates that the decline in market price has reached substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are Statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash Income Statement.
such a level that recovery of the cost value cannot be reasonably substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
expected within the foreseeable future.
Determination of fair value as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the Financial instruments arising from open client positions and the a new liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying If a financial investment is determined to be impaired, the client money rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA and Groups hedging positions are stated at fair value and disclosed amounts together with any costs or fees incurred are recognised in cumulative unrealised loss previously recognised in equity is other regulatory bodies.
Such monies are classified as either cash according to the valuation hierarchy required by IFRS 7.
Fair values profit or loss.
recycled to profit for the period.
and cash equivalents or segregated client funds in accordance are predominantly determined by reference to third party market with the relevant regulatory requirements.
Segregated client funds Other payables values bid prices for long positions and offer prices for short Trade receivables and trade payables comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value positions as detailed below: Offsetting financial instruments accounts or money market facilities.
Segregated client money and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate Level 1: V alued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions accounts hold statutory trust status restricting the Groups ability to method if the time value of money is significant.
are carried at fair value.
Amounts due from or to clients and brokers control the monies and accordingly such amounts and are not held Provisions are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet when on the Groups Statement of Financial Position.
Level 2: V alued using techniques where a price is derived based Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts significantly on observable market data.
For example, The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is disclosed constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset where an active market for an identical financial instrument in the other information section on page 140.
The return received an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and and settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally enforceable right to the product offered by the Group to its clients or used on managing segregated client funds is included within net the amount can be reliably estimated.
must not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable by the Group to hedge its market risk does not exist.
in the normal course of business and in the event of default, Borrowings Level 3: V alued using techniques that incorporate information insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparty.
Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer Borrowings are recognised initially at their issue proceeds less other than observable market data that is significant to the Collateral Arrangement TTCA by which a client agrees that full transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, taking into consideration Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties and overall valuation.
ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the the term of the borrowings, an assessment is made whether to state clients where the combination of cash held on account and the Group.
Title transfers funds are accordingly held on the Groups at amortised cost, with any difference between net proceeds and b Loans and receivables valuation of financial derivative open positions result in an amount Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding liability to the redemption value being recognised in the Income Statement Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed due to the Group.
A provision for impairment is established where clients within trade payables.
Cash and cash equivalents also over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
Reference is includes client monies deposited with the Groups Swiss banking rate method.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater made to an aged profile of debt and the provision is subject to subsidiary refer to note 17. than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred.
The Groups loans and receivables Financial investments Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and clients Share capital comprise trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents and trade Financial investments are held as available-for-sale and are where the combination of cash held on account and the valuation of a Classification of shares as debt or equity payable - amounts due to title transfer clients.
non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as held for financial derivative open positions results in an amount payable by When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial trading, designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and c Available-for-sale financial assets the Group.
liability of the Group is presented as a liability in the Statement of receivables.
Financial investments are recognised on a trade date Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either Financial Position: measured initially at fair value net of transaction Bitcoins basis.
They are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related designated in this category or not classified in any other categories.
costs and thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on The Group offers Bitcoin as a product that can be traded on its transactions costs.
They are subsequently carried at fair value.
Fair They are included in non-current assets unless the investment conversion or redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating platform.
The Group normally would hedge its clients trading value is the quoted market price of the specific investments held.
matures or management intend to dispose of it within 12 months to the liability component are charged as interest expense in the positions with its brokers.
However, as its brokers do not offer of the end of the reporting period.
The Groups available-for-sale Financial investments available-for-sale are carried at fair value.
Bitcoin as a hedging product, the Group purchases and sells assets comprise of financial investments.
Unrealised gains or losses are reported in equity in the available Bitcoins to hedge the clients positions.
for sale reserve and in other comprehensive income, until such investments are sold, collected or otherwise disposed of, or until | | 136 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 137 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments are classified Voting Registered office and according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual Name of Company country of incorporation Holding rights Nature of business interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
DotMarkets Registry Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry b Own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts DotTrading Registry Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of employee share schemes are classified as a deduction from shareholders equity DotCFD Registry Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry and are recognised at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between DotBroker Registry Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to reserves.
No gain or loss is recognised in the Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
DotForex Registry Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry Deal City Limited Ordinary shares 100% Software development c Share-based payments InvestYourWay Ltd.
Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading The Company operates three employee share plans: a share-incentive plan, a sustained performance plan and a long-term incentive plan.
Previously the Company operated a value-sharing plan, which was equity-settled.
IG Australia Pty Limited Level 15, 55 Collins Street, Melbourne Ordinary shares 100% Sales and marketing office VIC 3000, Australia For market-based vesting conditions, the cost of these awards is measured at fair value calculated using option pricing models refer to the IG Share Trading Australia Pty Limited Ordinary shares 100% Share dealing share based payment note for additional detail of the models and assumptions used for the various award schemes and are recognised as IG Asia Pte Limited 9 Battery Road, #01-02 MYP Centre, Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys estimate of the number of 049910, Singapore shares that will eventually vest.
Kunxin Translation Shenzhen Co. Limited Tower 3, Kerry Plaza, No.
1 Zhong Xin Ordinary shares 100% Translation services Si Road, Futian District, Shenzhen For non-market based vesting conditions, at each Statement of Financial Position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated 518048, P. R. China representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of IG Securities Limited Shiodome City Centre, 1-5-2 Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange non-market conditions determining the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense Higashi-Shinbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo, since the previous Statement of Financial Position date is recognised in the Income Statement as part of operating expenses, with a 105-7110, Japan corresponding credit to equity.
FXOnline Japan Co. Limited Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of the subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a IG Bank S. A.
42 Rue du Rhone, Geneve, 1204 Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange Switzerland capital contribution.
The fair value of the employee services received is recognised over the vesting period as an increase in the investment IG Infotech India Private Limited Infinity, 2nd Floor, Katha No 436, Ordinary shares 100% Software development in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
Survey No 13 1B, 12 2B, Challagatta Village, Bangalore, 560071, India IG US Holdings Inc. 2711 Centreville Road, Suite 400, Ordinary shares 100% Holding company 35.
List of investments in subsidiaries Wilmington, Delaware, 19808, The following companies are all owned directly or indirectly by IG Group Holdings plc: United States North American Derivatives Exchange Inc.
Ordinary shares 100% Exchange Registered office and Voting Market Risk Management Inc.
Ordinary shares 100% Market maker Name of Company country of incorporation Holding rights Nature of business Broker Connect Inc.
Ordinary shares 100% Software development Subsidiary undertakings held directly: FX Publications Inc Ordinary shares 100% Publications IG Group Limited Cannon Bridge House, Ordinary shares 100% Holding Company Nadex Domains Inc.
Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry 25 Dowgate Hill, London, EC4R 2YA United Kingdom Tower Three Capital Inc.
Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading Hedgestreet Securities Inc.
Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading Subsidiary undertakings held indirectly: IG Index Limited Cannon Bridge House, Ordinary shares 100% Spread betting Nadex Clearing LLC Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading 25 Dowgate Hill, London, EC4R 2YA Fox Sub Limited 57 63 Line Wall Road, Gibraltar Ordinary shares 100% Financing United Kingdom Fox Sub Two Limited Ordinary shares 100% Financing IG Markets Limited Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading, foreign exchange Fox Japan Holdings Ordinary shares 100% Holding Company and market risk management IG Limited Office2 &3, level 27, Currency HouseOrdinary shares 100% CFD trading and foreign exchange IG Markets South Africa Limited Ordinary shares 100% CFD trading Tower 2, Dubai International Financial Market Data Limited Ordinary shares 100% Data distribution Centre, P O Box - 506968 Dubai, United Arab Emirates IG Nominees Limited Ordinary shares 100% Nominee company IG Knowhow Limited Ordinary shares 100% Software development IG Services Limited Ordinary shares 100% Intra-Group corporate services Extrabet Limited Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading Morriston Investments Limited Christodoulou Chatzipavlou, Ordinary shares 100% Non-trading 221 Helios Court, 3rd floor IG Finance Ordinary shares 100% Financing 3036, Limassol, Cyprus IG Finance Two Ordinary shares 100% Financing The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are not subject to an audit by virtue of s479A of the Companies Act IG Finance Three Ordinary shares 100% Financing 2006 relating to subsidiary companies: IG Finance 5 Limited 06752558, IG Finance 9 Limited 07306407, Financial Domaigns Limited IG Finance Four Ordinary shares 100% Financing 09233880, Financial Domaigns Registry Holdings Limited 09235699, Financial Domaigns Registrar Limited 09235694, Financial IG Finance 5 Limited Ordinary shares 100% Financing Domaigns Services Limited 09235591, DotMarkets Registry Limited 09237699, DotTrading Registry Limited 09237708, DotCFD IG Forex Limited Ordinary shares 100% Financing Registry Limited 09237733, DotBroker Registry Limited 09237714, DotForex Registry Limited 09237740, DotSpreadbetting Registry IG Spread Betting Limited Ordinary shares 100% Financing Limited 09237702, InvestYourWay Limited 07081901 and Deal City Limited 09635230.
IG Finance 8 Limited Ordinary shares 100% Financing The following UK entities, all of which are 100% owned by the Group, are exempt from the requirement to prepare individual accounts by IG Finance 9 Limited Ordinary shares 100% Financing virtue of s394A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the individual accounts of dormant subsidiaries: IG Nominees Limited 04371444, Financial Domaigns Limited Ordinary shares 100% Holding company IG Finance 05024562, IG Finance Two 05137194, IG Finance Three 05297886, IG Finance Four 05312015, IG Spread Betting Limited Financial Domaigns Registry Holdings Limited Ordinary shares 100% Holding company 06806588, IG Finance 8 Limited 06807656, Extrabet Limited 04560348 and IG Forex Limited 06808361.
Financial Domaigns Registrar Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registrar Employee Benefit Trusts: Financial Domaigns Services Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry IG Group Holdings plc Inland Revenue Approved share-incentive plan UK Trust DotSpreadbetting Registry Limited Ordinary shares 100% Domains registry IG Group Limited Employee Benefit Trust Jersey Trust IG Group Employee Equity Plan Trust Australian Trust | | 138 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 139 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OTHER INFORMATION UNAUDITED The following supplemental notes provide additional analysis to aid the readers understanding of the Financial Statements: c Own funds 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 a Balance sheet m m 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 Own funds flow: m m Operating profit 213.4 207.6 Intangible assets arising on acquisition 108.1 107.1 Depreciation and amortisation 16.4 12.7 Other intangible assets 48.6 18.0 Share-based payments 7.7 7.0 Property plant and equipment 17.4 13.0 Movement in working capital 8.3 12.5 Fixed assets 174.1 138.1 Own funds generated from operations 229.2 239.8 45.3 Income tax paid 42.5 Liquid assets buffer 81.2 82.6 Net own funds generated from operating activities 183.9 197.3 Amounts held at due from brokers 376.1 298.9 Interest received 2.0 1.1 Cash in IG bank accounts 230.9 218.8 Interest paid 1.4 1.3 Own funds in client money 43.2 26.4 Purchase of DailyFX 29.8 - Liquid assets 731.4 626.7 Purchase of other capital expenditure 17.1 13.7 Client funds on balance sheet 117.1 39.0 Purchase of own shares 1.1 1.0 Own funds 614.3 587.7 Net own funds generated before dividends 136.5 182.4 Working capital 49.1 56.2 118.7 Dividends 103.1 Tax payable 13.1 13.8 Increase in own funds 17.8 79.3 Deferred tax assets 9.1 7.2 Own funds at start of the year 507.1 587.7 Net assets shareholders funds 735.3 663.0 Impact of movement in foreign exchange rates 8.8 1.3 614.3 Own funds at end of the year 587.7 b Client funds and assets Segregated client funds comprise individual client funds held in segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established d Liquidity under the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA CASS rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates.
Such monies are not included in the Groups Statement of Financial Position.
31 May 2017 31 May 2016 31 May 2017 31 May 2016 m m Liquid assets 731.4 626.7 Group m m Broker margin requirement 356.3 227.6 Segregated client funds 1,215.3 917.3 Non-UK liquid assets 134.6 64.3 Segregated client assets 499.8 177.8 Own funds in client money 43.2 26.4 Total segregated client funds and assets 1,715.1 1,095.1 Total available liquidity at the end of the year 197.3 308.4 In addition, the Groups Swiss banking subsidiary, IG Bank SA, is required to protect customer deposits under the FINMA Privileged Deposit Of which is: Scheme.
At 31 May 2017, IG Bank SA was required to hold 16.5 million 31 May 2016: 7.0 million in satisfaction of this requirement.
This Held as liquid asset buffer 81.2 82.6 amount is included in cash and cash equivalents on the Statement of Financial Position.
Final dividend due 83.9 84.1 Additional sources of liquidity 160.0 Undrawn committed RCF 160.0 | | 140 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 141 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OTHER INFORMATION UNAUDITED continued tax legislation.
These arrangements mean that the majority of the Groups profit is taxed in the UK, reflecting the fact that majority of the e Regulatory capital business value is created through the trading platform developed and maintained in the UK, and through the internalisation of global client Group consolidated capital resources audited flows in the UK.
31 May 2017 31 May 2016 The table below sets out the statutory profit before tax, and tax charge, reported by the legal entities and branches in each of the m m geographic segments in order to explain the make-up of the Groups tax charge by region.
Shareholders funds 735.3 663.0 UK EMEA APAC US Total Less foreseeable declared dividends 83.9 84.0 Year ended 31 May 2017 m m m m m Less acquisition intangibles 108.1 107.1 Less other intangible assets 48.6 18.0 Profit before tax 197.7 10.6 6.6 1.2 213.7 Less deferred tax assets 9.1 7.2 Current tax charge 42.5 1.8 1.4 45.7 Capital resources audited A 485.6 446.7 Deferred tax charge 1.4 1.2 1.4 1.2 Tax charge 43.9 1.8 0.2 1.4 44.5 Group consolidated capital requirement unaudited Effective tax rate 22.2% 17.0% 3.0% 116.7 % 20.8% Capital resources A 485.6 446.7 Pillar 1 Risk Exposure Amounts REA UK EMEA APAC US Total Total Pillar 1 REA B 1,817.3 1,568.4 Capital ratio A B C 26.7% 28.5% Year ended 31 May 2016 m m m m m Required capital ratio Profit before tax 197.6 7.1 7.0 3.8 207.9 Pillar 1 minimum D 8.0% 8.0% Current tax charge 40.6 1.9 1.1 43.6 E 9.4% Individual Capital Guidance ICG 5.0% 0.5 0.5 Deferred tax charge ICG requirement D E F 17.4% 13.0% Tax charge 40.1 1.9 1.6 43.6 plus combined buffer requirement G 1.3% 0.6% Effective tax rate 20.3% 26.8% 22.9% 0.0% 21% F G H 18.7% Total requirement % 13.6% Total requirement - m H x B I 339.8 213.3 g Five-year summary Capital headroom - m A - I 145.7 233.4 Group Income Statement The Group is required to hold a minimum amount of regulatory capital in accordance with the Individual Capital Guidance ICG 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 periodically determined by the FCA based on their supervisory review and evaluation process SREP of the Group, plus an amount equal For the year ended 31 May m m m m m to the higher of the internally calculated Capital Planning Buffer and the combination of the Conservation and Countercyclical buffers.
The FCA determine the ICG following review of the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process through which the Group calculates Net trading revenue 491.1 456.3 388.4 370.4 361.9 the amount of capital that should be held against specific firm risks, in addition to the Pillar 1 requirements.
Other operating loss income 1.6 7.2 1.2 3.8 6.1 Net operating income 489.5 449.1 387.2 374.2 368.0 The FCA last undertook a SREP of IG Group in the first half of calendar year 2016, and advised the Board of the level of capital the Group Operating expenses 259.7 228.8 206.9 169.1 163.8 is required to hold in August 2016.
The ICG advised in August 2016 replaced the ICG advised to the Board in May 2013.
The FCA plan to carry out their next SREP around August 2019.
D epreciation, amortisation and amounts written 16.4 12.7 10.7 9.7 12.2 off in property, plant and equipment The Groups total capital ratio and its minimum capital requirements are expressed as a percentage, calculated as capital resources divided Operating profit 213.4 207.6 169.6 195.4 192.0 by the Pillar 1 Risk Exposure Amounts in accordance with CRD IV rules.
Finance income 1.7 2.0 1.8 1.5 2.0 The ICG advised by the FCA in August 2016 requires the Group to hold capital in addition to the Pillar 1 minimum equal to 9.4% of the Finance costs 1.4 1.7 1.9 2.0 1.8 Pillar 1 Risk Exposure Amounts.
The previous ICG required the Group to hold capital in addition to the Pillar 1 minimum equal to 5.0% of Profit before tax 213.7 207.9 169.5 194.9 192.2 the Pillar 1 Risk Exposure Amounts.
The increase in the ICG primarily reflects an increase in the level of market risk that will be faced by the Tax expense 44.5 43.6 37.6 47.7 50.5 Group as a result of the increasing take up of Limited Risk Accounts, and includes a scalar at 5% of the minimum requirements to reflect Profit for the year 169.2 164.3 131.9 147.2 141.7 unsighted risks the Group may face following the launch of IG Investments.
The required minimum capital ratio at 31 May 2017 was 18.7%, including the effect of the Capital Conservation Buffer, which the Other metrics Bank of England raised on 1 January 2017 to 1.25% in line with the transitional provisions laid out by the FCA in IFPRU TP 7.
2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 The Groups Total Capital Ratio, using the balance sheet of the Group as at 31 May 2017 including the profit for the financial year, Net own funds generated from operations 183.9m 197.3m 136.8m 160.6m 154.3m was 26.7%.
Earnings per share EPS f Segmental tax information Basic earnings per share 46.2p 44.9p 36.1p 40.4p 39.0p The segmental analysis in note 3 reflects the information reviewed by the Executive Directors for the purposes of allocating resources and Diluted earnings per share 45.9p 44.6p 36.0p 40.2p 38.8p assessing performance.
Net trading revenue from OTC leveraged derivatives is reported by segment reflecting the location of the office Dividend per share that manages the underlying client relationship and represents an allocation of the net trading revenue that the Group generates from Interim dividend per share 9.42p 8.45p 8.45p 5.75p 5.75p clients trading activity.
This does not reflect the statutory revenue or costs recorded in individual legal entities and branches which is the Final dividend per share 22.88p 22.95p 19.70p 22.40p 17.50p basis for the determination of taxable profit.
Total dividend per share 32.30p 31.40p 28.15p 28.15p 23.25p With the exception of South Africa, where the local office hedges the market risk arising from clients trading in onshore products, all the Dividend payout ratio against diluted EPS 70.4% 70.4% 78.2% 70.0% 59.9% local offices and branches hedge the market risk arising from their clients activities in OTC leveraged derivatives with a legal entity in the Profit margin UK, on a back to back basis, and as result report nil net trading revenue from OTC leveraged derivatives in their statutory accounts.
Profit before taxation margin 43.51% 45.56% 43.64% 52.61% 53.10% Revenue and profit reported in the statutory accounts of legal entities and branches reflect the transfer pricing arrangements in place, which change from time to time reflecting the commercial and operational circumstances of the individual legal entity or branch, and changes in | | 142 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 143 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION UNAUDITED continued Group Statement of Financial Position SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION COMPANY INFORMATION 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Receiving shareholder information by email Directors As at 31 May m m m m m You can opt to receive shareholder information from us by email Executive Directors Assets rather than by post.
We will then email you whenever we add P G Hetherington Chief Executive Officer shareholder communications to the Company website.
To set this Non-current assets P Mainwaring Chief Financial Officer up, please visit www.
co. uk ecomms and register for Property, plant and equipment 17.4 13.0 13.3 13.0 14.4 electronic communications e-comms.
Intangible assets 156.7 125.1 124.0 122.7 120.5 Non-Executive Directors Financial investments 52.4 25.0 75.5 32.2 If you subsequently wish to change this instruction or revert to A J Green Chairman J Felix receiving documents or information by post, you can do so by Deferred tax assets 9.1 7.2 7.1 7.1 9.5 S G Hill J A Newman contacting the Companys registrars at the address shown under 235.6 170.3 219.9 175.0 144.4 Company Information to the right.
You can also change your M Le May Senior Independent Director S J Tymms Current assets communication method back to post by logging in to your Investor Trade receivables 357.5 278.5 269.6 327.5 300.6 Centre account and going to update my details followed by Company Secretary Prepayment and other receivables 12.2 12.4 12.2 12.2 10.3 communication options.
T Lee Cash and cash equivalent 230.9 218.8 148.8 101.5 98.3 The Registrar can also be contacted by telephone on Financial investments 92.0 111.0 32.9 50.3 50.5 0371 495 2032.
Calls to this number cost no more than a national Independent auditors 692.6 620.7 463.5 491.5 459.7 rate from any type of phone or provider.
These prices are for  LLP Total assets 928.2 791.0 683.4 666.5 604.1 indication purposes only: if in doubt, please check the cost of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors calling this number with your phone line provider.
Lines are open Liabilities 7 More London Riverside 8.30am 5.30pm, Mon-Fri excluding bank holidays.
London, SE1 2RT Current liabilities Trade payables 117.3 43.4 17.7 21.9 19.0 Shareholder enquiries Bankers Other payables 62.5 70.8 61.2 58.4 53.8 If you have any queries relating to your shareholding, dividend Lloyds Banking Group plc HSBC Bank plc Income tax payable 13.1 13.8 13.1 20.3 24.3 payments or lost share certificates, or if any of your details change, 10 Gresham Street 8 Canada Square 192.9 128.0 92.0 100.6 97.1 please contact Computershare by visiting www.
co. uk London London Non current liabilities or by using the contact details above.
EC2V 7AE E14 5HQ Redeemable preference shares Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc American Depositary Receipts ADRS 280 Bishopsgate Total liabilities 192.9 128.0 92.0 100.6 97.1 The Company has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt London Capital and reserves ADR programme, with Citibank N. A. acting as the depositary bank, EC2M 4RB which enables US investors to invest in IG shares though an ADR, Total shareholders' equity 735.3 663.0 591.4 565.9 507.0 denominated in US dollars.
IGs ADR programme trades in the US Total equity 735.3 663.0 591.4 565.9 507.0 Solicitors over-the-counter OTC market, under the symbol IGGHY.
Each ADR Total equity and liabilities 928.2 791.0 683.4 666.5 604.1 Linklaters currently represents one ordinary share.
com dr The financial year 2014 has been restated following the adoption of IFRIC 21.
Please refer to note 38 in the 2015 Annual Report.
The London T: UK 44 20 7500 2030 US 1 212 723 5435 financial year 2013 has not been restated following the adoption of IFRIC 21 on a materiality basis.
EC2Y 8HQ 1 Dividend dates Registrars Ex-dividend date 28 September 2017 Computershare Investor Services plc Record date 29 September 2017 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Last day to elect for dividend Bristol reinvestment plan 6 October 2017 BS99 6ZZ Annual General Meeting 21 September 2017 Final dividend payment date 27 October 2017 Brokers 2018 interim dividend February 2018 Barclays Bank plc Numis Securities Limited 5 The North Colonnade 10 Paternoster Square 1 Annual shareholder calendar Canary Wharf London Company reporting London EC4M 7LT E14 4BB Final results announced 18 July 2017 Annual Report published 11 August 2017 Registered office Annual General Meeting 21 September 2017 Cannon Bridge House 25 Dowgate Hill Interim report London As part of our e-comms programme, we have decided not to EC4R 2YA produce a printed copy of our Interim Report.
We will instead publish the report on our website, where it will be available around Registered number mid-January each year.
04677092 1 Please note that these dates are provisional and subject to change.
| | 144 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 145 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION GLOBAL OFFICES continued LONDON HEADQUARTERS Milan ASIA PACIFIC CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IG IG Index Limited IG Markets Limited Certain statements included in our 2017 Annual Report, or Melbourne and IG Markets Limited Via Paolo da Cannobio, incorporated by reference to it, may constitute forward-looking IG Australia Pty Limited Cannon Bridge House 33 7 Piano statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, Level 15 25 Dowgate Hill 20122 Milano prospects and or financial condition.
55 Collins Street London ITALY Melbourne VIC 3000 Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and EC4R 2YA 39 02 0069 5595 AUSTRALIA uncertainties because they are beyond the Groups control and UNITED KINGDOM italiandesk@ig.
com 61 0 3 9860 1799 are based on current beliefs and expectations about future events 44 0 20 7896 0011 IG.
com about the Group and the industry in which the Group operates.
com Paris No assurance can be given that such future results will be achieved: IG Markets Limited actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks Singapore EUROPE EXCLUDING UK 17 Avenue George V and uncertainties facing the Group.
If the assumptions on which IG Asia Pte Limited 75008 Paris the Group bases its forward-looking statements change, actual Dublin 9 Battery Road FRANCE results may differ from those expressed in such statements.
The IG IG Index Limited and #01-02 MYP Centre 33 0 1 70 98 18 18 forward-looking statements contained herein reflect knowledge IG Markets Limited SINGAPORE 049910 info.
com and information available at the date of this Annual Report and the World Rugby House 65 6390 5133 IG.
com fr Group undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking 8-10 Pembroke St helpdesk@ig.
sg statements except as required by law.
sg Stockholm This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation REPUBLIC OF IRELAND IG Markets Limited to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase, any shares or 353 1 526 6061 Tokyo Stureplan 2 other securities in the Company, and nothing in this report should dublinoffice@ig.
com IG Securities Limited 114 35 Stockholm be construed as a profit forecast.
com ie Shiodome City Center 10F SWEDEN 1-5-2 Higashi-shinbashi 46 0 8 505 15 000 Dsseldorf Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7110 info.
com MARKET SHARE IG Markets Limited JAPAN IG.
com se Market share data has been provided by Investment Trends Pty Berliner Allee 10 81 0 3 6704 8500 Limited website: www.
com MIDDLE EAST Irene Guiamatsia email: Irene@investmenttrends.
com jp Lloyd Kluegel email: lloyd@investmenttrends.
Unless stated, 49 0 211 882 370 00 Dubai market share data is sourced from the following current reports: info.
com NORTH AMERICA IG Limited IG.
com fide Investment Trends Australia CFD Report, Office 2702 &2703, level 27 Chicago released in June 2016 Currency HouseTower 2 Geneva North American Dubai International Financial Centre Investment Trends France CFD FX Report, Derivatives Exchange, Inc. IG Bank S. A P O Box 506968 released in May 2016 311 South Wacker Drive 42 Rue du Rhone DUBAI, UAE Investment Trends Spain CFD FX Report, Suite 2675 Geneve 971 45 59 2100 released in May 2017 Chicago, IL 60606 1204 helpdesk.
com ae Investment Trends Germany CFD FX Report, 1 312 884 0100 41 22 888 10 02 released in May 2017 customerservice@nadex.
com Investment Trends Singapore CFD FX Report, nadex.
com en-ch released in November 2016 SOUTH AFRICA Madrid Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, released in October 2016 IG Markets Limited Johannesburg Paseo fide la Castellana 13 IG Markets South Africa Limited Planta 1a Derecha The Place 28046 Madrid 1 Sandton Drive SPAIN Sandton, Gauteng 34 91 787 61 61 2196 Johannesburg info.
com za | | 146 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 147 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Cannon Bridge House 25 Dowgate Hill London EC4R 2YA T: 44 0 20 7896 0011 F: 44 0 20 7896 0010 W: iggroup.
