Directors Remuneration report Given the timing of the review, the committee does not consider it appropriate Annual Statement from the Chairman of the to make fundamental changes to the Remuneration Policy in advance of the Remuneration Committee Completion of the transaction.
In addition, no increases are being made to base salaries to reect the increase in the size and scope of the organization as a Dear Shareholders, result of the transaction at this point in time.
Instead, a further review will be carried out following the integration of the new business to ensure the On behalf of the board I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Remuneration Policy remains t for purpose for the enlarged and evolving Report at the end of another highly successful year, the highlight of which has group.
It may therefore be necessary to revert to shareholders within three been the announcement of the planned merger with HPE Software due to years for approval of changes to the Remuneration Policy.
The Directors Remuneration Report sets out the amounts earned in respect of the year ended 30 April 2017 and the Although our overall remuneration approach remains the same, the views of remuneration policy for Directors of Micro Focus.
our shareholders are important to us and feedback received during FY17 was considered carefully by the committee during the review and resulted in the The Directors Remuneration report is presented in two sections: following changes being made to the Remuneration Policy: The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details on the amounts earned To further strengthen the alignment between executive directors and in respect of the year ended 30 April 2017 and how the Remuneration Policy shareholders, for the upcoming year, shareholding guidelines will be will be implemented for the year ending 30 April 2018.
This will be subject to increased to 200% of salary from 150% of salary : an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 4 September 2017.
The clarification statements which were made in respect of the recruitment The existing Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM policy of the previous remuneration policy have now been fully reected in with additions to the Policy approved at the 2016 AGM.
It was also endorsed by the proposed Remuneration Policy: 99.98% of shareholders when they approved the merger with HPE Software on 26 May 2017.
As the policy has been in place for three years it will be subject The incorporation of resolutions approved by the shareholders at the 2016 to a binding shareholder vote at our 2017 AGM in line with the three year cycle.
AGM and subsequent clarification statements in respect of: Policy review the introduction of deferral under the annual bonus including further Micro Focus has a clear strategy that defines an operating and financial model clarification on the operation of malus and claw back : and designed to deliver superior shareholder return, and we believe that our the ability to make ASG awards and in line with shareholder feedback remuneration framework continues to underpin this strategy.
We will continue at the time of the AGM, future ASG awards will be pro-rated for time to strongly align the remuneration of senior managers with the requirements and performance on a change of control: and interests of shareholders through: Following discussions with our shareholders, we have included a discretion A simple, transparent remuneration model which is understood by for the committee to incorporate a measure of malus and claw back in executives and shareholders: respect of future ASG awards.
Specically, the Committee will have the ability to reduce the level of award which will ultimately vest become Output-based incentive schemes which ultimately motivate senior exercisable in the case of a material misstatement in the audited financial management to deliver sustainable shareholder returns of between accounts in respect of the relevant performance period.
This will apply to 15% and 20% per annum: and the relevant post vesting holding period: and A framework that rewards our employees for delivering significant value The removal of the ability to award Additional Responsibility Allowances.
Business performance in FY17 and incentive out-turns Given the requirement to seek re-approval for our Policy in 2017, the Despite FY17 being a significant period of change both in terms of the committee reviewed the continued appropriateness of the current approach integration of Serena and the other acquisitions completed in the year, together to remuneration at Micro Focus and its ability to drive superior shareholder with announcement of the HPE Software transaction and the commencement returns.
The committee concluded that the current approach has been of planning to integrate HPE Software, the business traded in line with the successful in driving strong performance against our key indicators of expectations set at the beginning of the year.
Specically, total revenue was EBITDA, EPS and shareholder returns.
slightly above the mid-point of the guidance range of zero to minus 2% compared with the pro-forma CCY revenue for FY16 including Serena.
The review was also carried out in the context of the HPE Software Underlying Adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of in year acquisitions transaction which will be transformational for Micro Focus, and is wholly grew by 4.5% during the year when compared with the CCY FY16 number.
consistent with our long-term business strategy to be the most disciplined global provider of infrastructure software, creating significant value for Shareholders saw the full benefit of the improved operational performance our shareholders.
with Diluted Adjusted EPS grew by 19.7% to 175.65 cents 2016: 146.70 and the full year dividend increased by 32.1% to 88.06 cents 2016: 66.68 cents.
70 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Despite the strong performance in the year, the stretching nature of the The wider Company targets set under the annual bonus resulted in a pay-out of the maximum As part of its role, the committee monitors the remuneration arrangements opportunity of 45.0% and 75.5% for non-commissioned staff in Micro Focus across the wider Company as an integral part of the strong performance and SUSE respectively.
As well as all employees being eligible to participate in our all employee share plans, all non-commission employees However, the sustained strong performance of the Company over the last participate in a bonus scheme which operates on the same metrics for all three years has seen Diluted Adjusted EPS grow from 97.48 cents in the year levels in the Company.
Additionally around 100 of our senior managers and ended 30 April 2014 to 175.65 cents, a compound annual growth rate of key employees receive LTIP awards subject to the same performance 21.7% exceeding the upper end of the LTIPs EPS performance criteria.
metrics that apply to executive directors.
This resulted in the LTIP awards granted three years ago vesting in full.
Shareholder Engagement Application of Policy in FY18 We remain committed to maintaining an open and transparent engagement We have provided full details on the implementation of our Policy for FY18, with our investors.
We believe that a clear objective of the Directors subject to shareholder approval, on pages 72 to 78 which will consist of the Remuneration Report is to communicate clearly how much our executive following remuneration elements linked to generation and delivery of real directors are earning and how this is clearly linked to performance.
Members returns to shareholders: of the remuneration committee are engaged in an ongoing dialogue with corporate governance advisory agencies and investors in order to better B ase salary understand their views on Micro Focus approach to executive remuneration which are then taken into account when determining the remuneration P ension arrangements for the executive directors.
A nnual Bonus We believe we have demonstrated the strong link between our Policy and value creation over the past six years: therefore I hope to receive your support at our L ong-term incentive upcoming AGM.
ASG awards Subject to Completion of the HPE Software transaction, Chris Hsu will become CEO of the Enlarged Group from the date of Completion.
Full details of Chris package were disclosed in the Circular to shareholders in respect of Amanda Brown the transaction.
His base salary will be $1,000,000 on appointment.
He will Chairman of the Remuneration Committee be eligible for participation in the incentive plans on the same basis as other 17 July 2017 executive directors, with a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 150% of salary and a maximum LTIP opportunity of 200% of salary.
Stephen Murdoch will become COO and will simultaneously step down from the board at Completion.
I would like to echo Kevin Loosemores words earlier in this report, and thank Stephen for his hard work and dedication as a board member of Micro Focus.
For Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch, the committee considered it appropriate to increase salaries by 2.5%, in the context of continued returns to shareholders over recent years and the contribution of the management team in achieving this success.
This increase was in line with the average salary increase for the wider workforce.
For Nils Brauckmann the committee decided to award a 10% increase reecting the rapid growth and value of the SUSE business under Nils leadership, his performance and development in role and his positioning compared to direct competitors.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Directors Remuneration report continued The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report and to Compliance statement state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared This Directors Remuneration report has been prepared on behalf of the in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The report has therefore been board by the committee and complies with the provisions of the Companies divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Terms of reference Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The committee is responsible for reviewing remuneration arrangements for members of the board and for providing general guidance on aspects of Remuneration Policy throughout the Group.
Its terms of reference include the following: Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for executive Determine and agree with the board the framework or broad policy for directors in accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 the remuneration of the Companys Chairman, CEO and other executive the Act.
A binding shareholder resolution to approve the Remuneration directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the executive Policy will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM on management team as appointed from time to time : 4 September 2017 and will be effective from that date subject to shareholder approval.
No significant changes are proposed to the Policy previously Determine the total individual remuneration package of each executive approved by shareholders, with the exception of those highlighted in the director and other senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments, Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the beginning share options and any other share awards: of this report.
The Policy will be available to view at www.
Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each The Companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors and their executive director and other senior executives: direct reports is established by the committee and approved by the board.
The individual remuneration package of each executive director is determined by Approve the framework of salaries for senior managers, determine targets the committee.
No executive director or employee participates in discussions for any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company and relating to the setting of their own remuneration.
approve the total annual payments: The objective of the Groups remuneration policies is that all employees, Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the board including executive directors, should receive appropriate remuneration for their and shareholders: performance, responsibility, skills and experience.
Remuneration packages are designed to enable the Group to attract and retain key employees by ensuring Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout they are remunerated appropriately and competitively and that they are the Company or Group: and motivated to achieve the highest level of Group performance in line with the best interests of shareholders.
Review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy.
Policies on remuneration take account of the pay structure, employment conditions and relativities within the Group and also the industry sector.
The full terms of reference of the committee are available from the They also take into consideration that individuals may have different levels of Company Secretary and are on the Companys website experience, capability, and market demand for their services.
To determine the http: investors.
elements and level of remuneration appropriate to each executive director, the committee considers benchmark remuneration data for selected comparable technology companies as well as a broader Group of companies of a similar size to the Company.
It is intended that a significant proportion of remuneration will continue to be performance-related.
Conditions for performance-related bonuses and long-term incentives, i. e. Underlying Adjusted EBITDA and EPS respectively, will represent challenging targets which are designed to increase shareholder value and are linked to the Companys financial and operational strategy.
The committee will review the performance conditions annually to ensure that they remain demanding and appropriate.
In line with the Investment Associations guidelines on responsible investment disclosure, the committee will ensure that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration structure, there is no restriction on the committee that prevents it from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters.
72 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy that shareholders will be asked to approve at the AGM on 4 September 2017.
For these purposes, payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration Policy table Base salary Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Supports the recruitment and Normally reviewed annually.
Increases Ordinarily, salary increases will be in None, although overall retention of executive directors generally apply from the first quarter line with increases awarded to other performance of the individual of the calibre required to deliver of the financial year.
However, is considered by the the Groups strategy.
increases may be made above this level committee when setting and When determining base salary levels, at the committees discretion to take reviewing salaries annually.
Rewards executives for the consideration is given to the following: account of individual circumstances performance of their role.
such as: Pay increases for other employees Set at a level that allows fully of the Group: Increase in scope and responsibility: exible operation of our The individuals skills, experience and Increase to reect the individuals variable pay plans.
responsibilities: development and performance in Pay at companies of a similar size, role e. g. for a new appointment complexity and international scope, in where base salary may be increased particular those within the technology over time rather than set directly at sector, the FTSE 100, US listed the level of the previous incumbent technology companies and privately or market level : and owned software companies: and Alignment with market level.
Benets Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides a competitive and The Group provides a range of benets Set at a level which the committee None.
cost-effective benets package which may include a car benefit or cash considers: to executives to assist them to equivalent, private medical insurance, carry out their duties effectively.
permanent health insurance and life Appropriately positioned against assurance.
comparable roles in relevant comparators in companies of a Additional benets may also be provided similar size and complexity in the in certain circumstances which may include relevant market: and but are not limited to relocation expenses, housing allowance, school fees, incremental Provides a sufficient level of benefit overseas tax of the directors and fees for based on the role and individual a temporary increase in responsibilities.
Other benets may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the committee.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Directors Remuneration report continued Pension Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides a competitive Dened contribution plan with Company 20% of base salary.
post-retirement benefit, in a contributions set as a percentage of way that manages the overall base salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Annual bonus Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Rewards and incentivizes the Measures and targets are set for each The maximum opportunity is 150% The measures and targets achievement of annual financial financial period and pay out levels are of salary for all Executive Directors are set by the committee.
determined by the committee based on in any 12 month period.
Targets are set that drive improvement in the All executive directors with the exception underlying performance of of the Executive Chairman are required to the business ensuring a link defer one-third of their bonus into an award to shareholder return.
The deferral period will normally be for a period of three years.
Currently measures are Kevin Loosemore is exempt as his annual limited to growth in bonus has been 150% since 2011 and its Underlying Adjusted EBITDA treatment was covered in his service contract excluding the impact of in which predates the remuneration policy year acquisitions and currency.
The maximum The committee may, in exceptional bonus will be achieved by circumstances, amend the bonus pay out growing the Underlying should the formulaic outcome not, in the Adjusted EBITDA by 10% view of the committee, reect overall year on year excluding the business performance or individual impact of in year acquisitions contribution.
Any such adjustments would and currency on straight be disclosed in the relevant years Annual line basis.
Report on Remuneration and bonuses would not exceed the stated maximum.
This may change if needed to support a change in Claw back provisions may be applied to the business strategy.
cash bonus up to one year following payment.
Malus provisions will apply during the three year deferral and deferred shares will also be subject to claw back up to one year after vesting.
Dividend equivalents are payable over the vesting period in respect of the bonus share awards which vest.
74 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Motivates and rewards the Conditional share awards or nil-cost The maximum face value of awards to The performance measures achievement of long-term options are typically made annually with be granted in respect of any 12 month and respective weightings business goals.
vesting dependent upon the achievement period is 200% of salary.
may vary year on year to of performance conditions normally over reect strategic priorities, Supports the creation of three years.
subject to retaining at least shareholder value through 50% on EPS.
the delivery of strong market Malus may be applied up to vesting and performance aligned with the claw back may be applied for up to one year Details of the measure and long-term business strategy, after vesting.
performance targets used both organic and inorganic.
for specic LTIP grants are The committee has discretion to decide included in the Annual Report Supports achievement of whether and to what extent targets have on Remuneration.
our strategy by targeting been met, and if an exceptional event performance under our key occurs that causes the committee to Threshold performance will financial performance consider that the targets are no longer result in 25% vesting.
indicators of revenue growth appropriate, the committee may adjust and EPS growth.
them, provided the new conditions are no tougher or easier than the original Aligns executive interest with conditions at the time they were set.
The committee has the discretion to adjust the LTIP outcomes to ensure alignment of pay with performance to ensure the outcome is a true reection of the performance of the Company.
Any such adjustments would be disclosed in the relevant years Annual Report on remuneration.
All-employee share plans Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides an opportunity for UK resident executive directors are Participation limits are those set by the Not applicable.
directors to voluntarily invest entitled to participate in a tax approved local tax authorities from time to time.
all-employee plan, The Micro Focus Sharesave Plan 2006, under the same terms as other employees.
Under this plan they make monthly savings over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Micro Focus shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Directors Remuneration report continued Additional Share Grant Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Additional Share Grant ASGs take the form of conditional share The number of Ordinary Shares issued The percentage of the ASG Aligns executive interest with awards or nil cost options which may be or issuable pursuant to ASGs granted which will Vest is: those of long-term shareholders awarded during the first 18 months from pursuant to a single ASG programme i 0% if the Shareholder and ensures the success of the date of Completion of the acquisition may not exceed 2.5% of the issued Return Percentage is a material acquisition by by whatever means, with vesting Ordinary Share capital of the Company 50 per cent.
or less: whatever means of a business dependent upon the achievement of a at the time of completion of the ii 100% if the Shareholder or entity made by the Group.
Within this limit, the number Return Percentage is typically measured over three years.
of Ordinary Shares that can be awarded 100 per cent.
or more: and to any individual under the relevant ASG iii a percentage determined Holders of ASGs are required, subject to programme may not exceed 0.5% of on a straight line basis continued employment on the vesting date, the issued Ordinary Share capital of the between i and ii above.
to hold ASGs or ordinary shares acquired Company at the time of completion of on exercise net of any sales to meet scal the acquisition.
The Shareholder Return charges for a minimum of 12 months Percentage will reect following the vesting date.
dividends paid and any increase in share price from For the replicated ASG programme which a reference price xed at, was approved by shareholders at the 2016 or following, the AGM, the Remuneration Committee will commencement of have discretion to include a malus and discussions relating to the claw back clause to the effect that malus relevant transaction to the may be applied up to the vesting date and average of the closing share claw back may be applied during the price on the 20 Business 12 month period post the vesting date Days prior to the Vesting in the case of a material misstatement Date.
The Vesting Date is the of the financial statements in respect third anniversary of the date of the performance period.
of grant or an earlier date determined by the committee.
Shareholding guidelines Element of pay and Operation alignment with strategy To align directors interests with Executive directors are required to build a those of our shareholders.
holding in Group shares equivalent to two times salary.
76 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Non-executive director policy table Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and Executive Directors after taking appropriate advice.
The section below details the Companys policy on how the non-executive directors, including a non-executive Chairman, will be remunerated.
Non-executive director fees Element of pay and Operation alignment with strategy Non-executive director fees The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are paid for chairmanship of board committees and Provides an appropriate for the roles of senior independent director and Deputy Chairman.
reward to attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
Fees are currently paid in cash but the Company may choose to provide some of the fees in shares Fees are set at a level which: Reects the commitment and contribution that is expected from the non-executive directors: and Is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the relevant market, especially companies of a similar size and international scope to the Company, in particular those within the technology sector, the FTSE 100, US listed technology companies and privately owned software companies.
Increases will typically be in line with market levels of fee ination.
In exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, material misalignment with the market or a change in the complexity, responsibility or time commitment required to full the relevant non-executive director role the Chairman and Executive Directors have discretion to make appropriate adjustments to fee levels to ensure they remain market competitive.
Non-executive directors may also be reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in performance of their duties and tax thereon.
Aggregate fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in the Companys articles of association, currently 1m.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant financial year.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive scheme.
Notes to the remuneration policy table The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of ofce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed: i Before 25 September 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder approved policy came into effect : ii Before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii At a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The committee will operate the annual bonus, DSBP and LTIP according to their respective rules or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, with regard to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to the following in relation to the LTIP and DSBP: The participants: the timing for granting awards: the size of an award subject to maximum limits set out in the policy table: and the determination of vesting: Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the LTIP from year to year: The operation of malus and claw back: and To settle awards in cash.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Directors Remuneration report continued In relation to the annual bonus plan, the committee retains discretion over: Performance measures and targets The Companys core objective is to continue to deliver shareholder returns of 15% The participants: the determination of the bonus payment: the timing of to 20% per annum over the long-term.
The committee continues to believe that a payment: and dealing with a change of control: combination of Underlying Adjusted EBITDA, Revenue Growth, Cash ow, EPS and Total Shareholder Return remain the most appropriate measures of long-term Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan performance of the Company.
The performance measures used under the annual and the appropriate treatment chosen: bonus are selected annually to help the Group achieve its core objective.
The annual bonus plan is currently linked to growth in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA.
The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets Vesting of LTIP awards is currently linked to growth in EPS as the committee for the annual bonus plan from year to year: and believes that this aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value.
ASGs pay out to the extent value is delivered to our shareholders.
The committee The operation of malus and claw back.
believes that a combination of the measures under our incentive plans provides a strong line of sight for the executives and supports the long-term strategy.
Awards under the ASG will operate as approved by shareholders and the committee retains the discretion in relation to but not limited to the following: Performance targets are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Groups strategic priorities and the economic environment in The participants: the timing for granting awards: the size of an award which the Group operates.
subject to the maximum limits set out in the policy table and the determination of vesting: Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group To settle awards in cash: and The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles to those for executive directors.
Salary reviews take into account How to take account of any variations in share capital of the Company.
Group performance, local pay and market conditions and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All non-commission employees In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, the committee participate in a bonus scheme which operates on the same metrics for all retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events levels in the Company from entry level employees to executive directors.
occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the Around 100 of our senior managers and other key employees also receive amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and LTIP awards.
Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, while are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, award sizes vary by individual.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as the all-employee share plans on the same terms.
The plans are available to appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Malus and or claw back provisions may be applied to awards under the All of our UK employees are able to participate in our Flexible Benets annual bonus, DSBP and LTIP for up to one year following payment or vesting programme.
These provisions may be applied in the case of material miss-statement of results, an error in calculation, fraud and gross misconduct, ASGs in relation to the 2014 acquisition of TAG were made by the conduct leading to serious harm to the Groups reputation or a significant remuneration committee in the first 18 months following the acquisition to financial loss or a material failure of risk management.
certain senior managers or employees of the Enlarged Group and new joiners who were deemed critical to the delivery of the acquisition and integration of In addition, ASG awards under the reciprocal programme which was approved TAG and Base Micro Focus, with the total number of recipients including by shareholders at the 2016 AGM may be subject to malus up to the vesting executive directors not exceeding fifteen.
date and claw back during the 12 month period following the vesting date in the circumstances of a material misstatement of the financial accounts during the performance period.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Sharesave and approved section of the LTIP will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
Details of share awards granted to existing executive directors are set out on pages 89 to 91 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
78 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Illustrations of the application of Remuneration Policy The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the executive directors and the potential split between the different elements of pay under three different performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Executive Chairman 000 Maximum 3,557 On-target 1,870 Minimum 932 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Chief Financial Officer 000 Maximum 2,018 On-target 1,115 Minimum 573 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Chief Executive Officer of Micro Focus 000 Maximum 2,145 On-target 1,184 Minimum 607 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Chief Executive Officer of SUSE 000 Maximum 1,975 On-target 1,088 Minimum 556 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 Salary Benefits Long-term incentives Pension Annual bonus Note: Assumes exchange rate of 0.79 to 1 for CEO of SUSE, based on a three month average rate to 30 April 2017.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Directors Remuneration report continued The minimum scenario shows salary, pension and benets only.
These are the Appointment of interim executive directors elements of the executive directors remuneration packages that are not at risk.
The committee also recognizes that there may be times when it is appropriate to appoint an interim Executive Director or in exceptional circumstance require The on-target scenario shows xed remuneration as above, plus a pay-out of that a non-executive director takes on an executive function on a short-term 50% of the maximum annual bonus and 25% vesting for long-term incentives basis.
Remuneration for interim executive directors will be determined within excluding ASG awards.
The maximum scenario reects xed remuneration, plus full pay-out of all In exceptional circumstances where a non-executive director takes on an incentives excluding ASG awards.
executive function on an interim basis, the director will receive an increase to their cash fee reecting the market rate for that role only for the duration of Share price movements and the payment of dividends are excluded.
have not been included in the analysis as they are one-off awards which do not form part of the on-going annual remuneration arrangements.
Further details Non-executive directors will not be eligible for an annual bonus or LTIP in the of outstanding ASG awards are provided on page 91. event of a significant merger or acquisition.
The committee commits to consulting with and seeking approval from shareholders in advance of operating outside these policy limits.
Recruitment of executive directors The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at the Executive directors appointed as a result of mergers time of appointment and taking account of the experience and skills of the and acquisitions individual and prevailing market conditions.
In determining the appropriate As merger and acquisition activity is part of the Companys strategy, the remuneration structure and levels, the committee will take into consideration committee recognizes that such activity may give rise to situations where there all relevant factors to ensure that the arrangements are in the best interests are exceptional circumstances in relation to executive directors and certain of the Company and its shareholders.
The committee would seek not to pay senior management.
Should it be necessary to match compensation in an more than is necessary to secure the right candidate.
The maximum aggregate acquired company and or adjust compensation of existing management to value of incentives excluding buyouts on appointment will be 500% salary.
deliver significant shareholder benets then the Company may wish to offer awards of variable remuneration in excess of the maximum levels stated in the The committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to policy table.
However, the Company will only do so after consulting with, and buy-out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer seeking approval from shareholders in advance of operating outside these limits.
and may exercise the discretion available under the relevant Listing Rule to facilitate this, i. e. in the event that a structure that is different from those Executive directors service agreements detailed in the Remuneration Policy would be required.
For example, the The executive director service contract for Kevin Loosemore was entered into committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements as part before 27 June 2012 and has not been renewed following its execution.
There of the buy-out when it considers these to be in the best interests of the are accordingly areas where this contract is not consistent with the policy for Company and, therefore, of its shareholders.
new executive directors as set out below.
Any such buy-out payments would be: The Companys policy is that executive directors service agreements normally continue until the directors agreed retirement date or such other Based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer: date as the parties agree are terminable on no more than six months notice and provide no entitlement to the payment of a pre-determined amount on Would be no higher than the commercial value forfeited: and termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases, career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment Would typically reect the delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares and for a dened period.
options, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Internal appointment of executive directors In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are disclosed in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
For external and internal appointments, the committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and within the limits set by the committee.
80 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The table below provides details of the main terms of the executive directors If an executive director commits any crime or act of dishonesty or, other than service contracts and termination payments not otherwise set out in this report.
Kevin Loosemore, commits any material breach of their service contract or any act of gross misconduct, the Company is entitled to summarily terminate the service contract without notice or payment in lieu of notice or other compensation.
In the case of Kevin Loosemore, his employment may be terminated by the Provision Detailed terms Company without notice if, in the opinion of the board acting reasonably and after giving Kevin Loosemore reasonable opportunity to comment before such Normal remuneration Base salary, pension and benets: opinion is reached, it is determined that he has committed any serious breach of arrangements Company car or cash allowance: his service contract which is incapable of remedy or he is guilty of any gross Private health insurance: misconduct, or gross incompetence, in the discharge of his duties of his Life assurance: employment.
Any such contract terms cannot however, as a rule of law, affect 25 days paid annual leave: the executive directors statutory rights such as rights in respect of unfair Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to dismissal.
plan rules: and Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules.
Loss of ofce payments and notice period For executive directors, other than Kevin Loosemore, there are no Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the predetermined special provisions with regard to compensation in the event event of a change of control.
Details of the of loss of ofce: compensation is based on what would be earned by way of treatment of DSBP, LTIP and ASG awards are salary, pension entitlement and other contractual benets over the notice provided on pages 89 to 91. period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, and a payment in lieu of notice made, payments to the executive director may be staged over the Notice period A maximum of six months notice from the notice period, at the same interval as salary would have been paid.
In respect of Kevin Loosemore, his loss of ofce compensation is equal to Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice equal to: 735,000 in the event his employment is terminated prior to 1 May 2018.
A maximum of six months base salary: Subject to Kevin Loosemore being granted an ASG on the same terms as Pension supplement: and the TAG ASG deed granted on 18 September 2014 or as mutually agreed Cash supplement in lieu of other benets.
between the Company and Kevin Loosemore, subject to compliance with the terms of the ASG programme approved by the Companys shareholders on Restrictive During employment and for a maximum of 22 September 2016 over at least 947,100 Ordinary Shares within one week covenants 12 months after leaving.
of Completion or within one week of Micro Focus being permitted to grant such ASGs his existing notice provisions including any right to a payment in lieu of notice of 735,000 as detailed above, will be replaced in their entirety with a six month notice period.
If the Company and Kevin Loosemore are not Executive director Date of service Notice period able to mutually agree the terms of an ASG deed such that the ASG is issued contract within the required time frame, then Kevin Loosemores notice period will not change and as at 1 May 2018 his notice period will be down to zero.
1 Kevin Loosemore 14 April 2011 The agreement is terminable by either party Executive directors must take all reasonable steps to obtain alternative on six months notice employment during the notice period and payments made by the Company will be reduced to reect any payments received in respect of alternative employment.
Mike Phillips 7 September 2010 The agreement is terminable by either party There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus and this is at the on six months notice discretion of the committee.
Where an executive director ceases to be employed by reason of death, disability, ill-heath or any other reason at the 2 Stephen Murdoch 16 April 2014 The agreement is committees discretion they may receive a pro-rata bonus for the year of terminable by either party cessation, paid on the normal payment date with committee discretion to on six months notice accelerate, based on performance against predetermined targets and time served during the year.
Nils Brauckmann 27 January 2016 The agreement is terminable by either party The treatment of leavers under our DSBP and LTIP is determined by the rules on six months notice of the relevant plan.
The committee will determine when and if awards vest and the period during which awards may be exercised.
Chris Hsu has entered into a service agreement with Micro Focus US Inc. dated 16 January 2017 which will come into effect subject to Completion of the transaction, Awards under the LTIP and DSBP typically lapse if the participant leaves at which point Chris will become Chief Executive officer of the Enlarged Group.
employment in case of termination for cause or resignation.
In other cases, 1 normally including death and ill health, injury or disability, redundancy and Subject to the below, set out in the loss of ofce payments section, Kevin Loosemores notice period decreases by one month for each complete retirement, or any other reason at the committees discretion, awards would month served after 31 October 2017 until it reaches zero on 1 May 2018. typically vest early and be pro-rated for time and performance where relevant.
2 Stephen Murdoch will become Chief Operating officer on Completion of the Although the committee may determine that awards should continue to their transaction and will step down from the board simultaneously.
On death, awards typically vest immediately.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Directors Remuneration report continued ASG awards will normally lapse if a participant leaves prior to the vesting date Non-executive directors terms of appointment following voluntary resignation, breach of contract, gross misconduct or gross The non-executive directors terms of appointment are recorded in letters of incompetence, subject to committee discretion.
In the circumstances of fair appointment.
The required notice from the Company is 90 days in all cases.
dismissal other than those listed above, then the ASG will normally vest, The non-executive directors are not entitled to any compensation for loss of subject to time pro-rating and subject to satisfaction of the performance ofce and stand for election or re-election as appropriate at each AGM.
condition, and will become exercisable on the normal vesting date for a period Details of the letters of appointment of each non-executive director who has of six months.
In all other cases, the ASG will normally vest, subject to the served as a director of the Company at any time during the financial year are performance condition, and become exercisable on the normal date for a set out below: period of six months.
Change of control Non-executive Appointment or Expiration date The rules of the DSBP and LTIP provide that, in the event of a change of director re-appointment control or a scheme of arrangement of the company, awards vest to the extent date that the performance conditions where applicable are satisfied at the date of such event.
Any such early vesting would generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
Karen Slatford 5 July 2016 5 July 2019 The committee may vary the level of vesting, if it believes that exceptional Tom Virden 5 January 2015 5 January 2018 circumstances warrant this, taking into account any other factors it believes Richard Atkins 16 April 2017 16 April 2020 to be relevant in deciding to what extent an award will vest.
Amanda Brown 1 July 2016 1 July 2019 The directors may exchange their awards over Company shares for awards Steve Schuckenbrock 1 February 2016 1 February 2019 in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the offer allow this.
Tom Virden and Steve Schuckenbrock resigned on 25 April 2017.
Awards held under all-employee plans would be expected to vest on a change Silke Scheiber and Darren Roos were appointed to the board on 15 May 2017 of control and those which have to meet specic requirements to benefit from and their contracts expire on 15 May 2020. permitted tax benets would vest in accordance with those requirements.
All appointments of non-executive directors are subject to election by shareholders For the replicated ASG programme which was approved by shareholders at the at the first AGM of the Company after appointment and to re-election on an 2016 AGM, on a change of control or scheme of arrangement of the company, annual basis thereafter.
All the directors will be offering themselves for election outstanding ASGs will normally vest subject to time pro-rating from the or re-election at the AGM to be held on 4 September 2017. effective date of grant namely the announcement of the relevant transaction and assessment of performance achieved.
For the ASG programme in Consultation with employees connection with The Attachmate Group acquisition, on a change of control Although the committee does not consult directly with employees on the or scheme of arrangement of the company, outstanding ASGs will normally Directors Remuneration Policy, the committee does consider the general vest in full.
basic salary increase, the benchmarking of employee compensation and benets, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the Policy in respect of external board appointments broader employee population when determining Remuneration Policy for We recognize that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the executive directors.
the executive director concerned and the Company.
With prior approval from the board, each serving executive director can undertake external non-executive Consideration of shareholder views directorships.
At the discretion of the board, executive directors are permitted The committee also considers developments in institutional investors best to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
practice expectations and the views expressed by shareholders when setting Directors remuneration.
We remain committed to shareholder dialogue and take an active interest in voting outcomes.
Prior to the proposed renewal of our policy at the 2017 AGM, we consulted with major shareholders and investor bodies and were pleased with the response we received.
If any of these shareholders express concerns relating to our policy, we would endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
82 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Agenda during the year ended 30 April 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration The key activities of the committee were as follows: The following section provides the details of how the Remuneration Policy Approval of the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended was implemented during the year.
30 April 2016: Remuneration Committee membership during the Reviewed salaries of the executive directors and the Executive Chairmans year ended 30 April 2017 direct reports: During the year the committee comprised only of independent non-executive directors which we see as fundamental to ensuring that the remuneration of Reviewed bonus payments and LTIP vesting against targets: executive directors and senior executives is set by people who are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Conducted annual review and ratication of remuneration packages for matters discussed.
The committee met eight times during the year under executive directors and senior executives, incorporating institutional review.
The number of committee meetings attended by each director in the investor feedback: year ended 30 April 2017 was as follows: Considered current guidelines on executive compensation from advisory bodies and institutional investors: Committee Held Number of meetings member attended Reviewed Group-wide pay and benets: Amanda Brown Established targets for annual cash bonuses for the year ending Chair 8 8 30 April 2018: Karen Slatford 8 8 Considered the award of ASGs in light of the HPE Software transaction: Tom Virden 8 8 and Richard Atkins 8 8 Reviewed the performance and terms of reference of the committee.
Amanda Brown was appointed on 6 July 2016 and became Chair of the committee on 22 September 2016.
Tom Virden resigned on 25 April 2017.
External advisers The committee last reviewed their external advisers in 2012 and appointed Kepler Associates a brand of Mercer Kepler.
Kepler attends committee The committee invited the Executive Chairman, the Chief Financial officer meetings where appropriate and provides advice on remuneration for executives, and the Group Human Resources Director during the year to provide views and analysis on all elements of the Remuneration Policy and regular market and advice on specic questions raised by the committee and on matters relating best practice updates.
Kepler reports directly to the committee chair, and is a to the performance and remuneration of senior managers.
They did not signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be participate in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Keplers parent, Mercer, Secretary attended each meeting as secretary to the committee.
does not provide any other services to the Company.
The committee is satisfied that the advice it receives from Kepler is independent.
The terms of Keplers engagement are available from the Company Secretary and they are paid on a time and materials fee for projects outside the scope of their retainer.
The committee seeks advice on legal matters from a number of rms as appropriate.
The committee continually assesses ongoing advice provided by its advisers on remuneration matters.
The fees incurred with Kepler in the year under review were 14,250 2016: 23,755, plus VAT.
Management, in their advisory role to the committee have also worked with Deloitte during the year on various issues that have been presented to the committee.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Directors Remuneration report continued Single gure for total remuneration audited The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration for directors for the financial year ended 30 April 2017 and 2016.
2 Taxable benets: include car benets, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
3 Annual bonus: payment for performance during the year.
For executive directors other than the Executive Chairman, one-third of the annual bonus is deferred into shares for three years.
4 LTIP: the value at vesting of awards vesting on performance over the three year periods ended 30 April 2017 and 30 April 2016.
The 2016 gures are based on the share price on the date of vesting 26 June 2016 of 1,530 pence.
The 2017 gures are based on the share price on the date of vesting 27 June 2017 of 2,420 pence.
5 Pension: the Companys pension contribution or cash allowance during the year.
6 Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann were appointed to the board on 1 February 2016.
Their 2016 remuneration includes salary, pension and benets in respect of service as executive directors, their full-year bonus and full-year LTIP.
7 Karen Slatfords 2016 fees include 80,000 in respect of the year and 2,000 back-dated fees.
8 Steve Schuckenbrock was appointed to the board on 1 February 2016 and resigned on 25 April 2017.
9 Amanda Brown was appointed to the board on 1 July 2016 and her directors fees are paid to her employer.
84 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Annual bonus for the year ended 30 April 2017 audited For the year ended 30 April 2017, the maximum bonus opportunity was 150% of salary for all executive directors.
The executive directors are on the same bonus plan as all non-commissioned employees and their bonuses are capped at the percentages above.
There is no bonus pay out if Underlying Adjusted EBITDA on a constant currency basis, excluding the impact of in year acquisitions, is the same as the previous year and maximum bonuses are earned if the increase in this measure is 10% or more.
Underlying Adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of in year acquisitions grew by 4.5% during the year on a constant currency basis which resulted in a bonus payment of 45% of the maximum.
With effect from 1 May 2016, one third of the Annual Bonus for Messrs. Brauckmann, Murdoch and Phillips will be deferred into shares for a period of three years for all executive directors except for Kevin Loosemore.
Underlying Underlying Adjusted Adjusted Maximum EBITDA growth EBITDA growth EBITDA growth bonus % of Bonus for 2017 Executive director threshold maximum achieved 000 maximum 000 Kevin Loosemore 0% 10% 4.5% 1,125 45% 506 Mike Phillips 0% 10% 4.5% 705 45% 317 Stephen Murdoch 0% 10% 4.5% 750 45% 338 Nils Brauckmann 0% 10% 4.5% 634 45% 285 Vesting of long-term incentives for performance to the year ended 30 April 2017 The awards granted on 27 June 2014 to the executive directors vested on 27 June 2017.
The award to Nils Brauckmann will vest on 16 December 2017 subject to continued employment.
Vesting of the awards was based on annualized EPS growth in excess of RPI over the three years ended 30 April 2017, as set out in the table below.
Annualized EPS growth of the Company in excess of RPI over the performance period Vesting percentage of the shares subject to an award Less than 3% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis Equal to or above 9% p. a.
100% The annualized Diluted Adjusted EPS growth rate over the performance period of 21.7% exceeded the performance criteria of 10.91% being EPS of 9% plus RPI 1.91% p. a.
The table below details the executive directors 2014 awards.
The awards have been valued based on the closing price on the date of vesting, 27 June 2017, of 2,420 pence.
Estimated Executive director Interest held % vesting Interest vesting Vesting date value Kevin Loosemore 115,192 100% 115,192 27 June 2017 2,787,646 Mike Phillips 61,710 100% 61,710 27 June 2017 1,493,382 1 Stephen Murdoch 56,421 100% 56,421 27 June 2017 1,365,388 2 Nils Brauckmann 27,159 100% 27,159 16 December 2017 619,497 1 Stephen Murdochs awards were made to him prior to his appointment to the board.
2 The estimated value has been calculated using the average share price over the three months ended 30 April 2017.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Directors Remuneration report continued Share interest awards made during the year audited On 13 September 2016, all executive directors were granted awards of nil-cost options under the LTIP as set out in the table below.
Middle Market Face value at Awards made closing price at Face value at date of award Executive director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award % of salary Kevin Loosemore 13 September 2016 69,156 21.69 1,499,994 200% Mike Phillips 13 September 2016 37,262 21.69 808,213 172% Stephen Murdoch 13 September 2016 39,640 21.69 859,792 172% Nils Brauckmann 13 September 2016 33,476 21.69 726,094 172% Awards will be eligible to vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to the following EPS performance criteria which will be measured over the three year period from 1 May 2016 to 30 April 2019.
100% Percentage change in Executive Chairman remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Executive Chairmans remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all staff that were on the corporate bonus scheme in both years and were employed at the beginning and end of the financial year.
We have selected our staff on the corporate bonus scheme unchanged from last year for this comparison as it is considered to be the most relevant for structure of remuneration.
Other Executive Chairman 000 employees Base package and ARA 2017 2016 % change % change Salary 750 750 0% 2.3% Taxable benefits 32 31 3.2% 0.4% Annual performance bonus 506 1,125 -55.0% -48.7% Total 1,288 1,906 -32.4% -4.8% 86 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Relative importance of spend on pay Review of past performance The table below shows the percentage change in total employee pay The remuneration package is structured to help ensure alignment with expenditure and shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and share buy-backs shareholders.
The graph and table below show how the Chief Executive from the financial year ended 30 April 2016 to the financial year ended Ofcers or Executive Chairmans pay compares to total shareholder returns 30 April 2017.
TSR over the last eight years.
The graph below shows the value, by 30 April 2017, of 100 invested in 2017 2016 % Micro Focus International plc on 30 April 2009 compared with the value $m $m change of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Software and Distribution to shareholders Computer Services Indices.
The intervening points are at the Companys Dividends paid 177.5 105.2 68.7% financial year ends.
The FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Indices have been chosen as they are considered the Employee remuneration 554.0 509.7 8.7% most relevant indices for comparison with the Company.
The directors are proposing a second interim dividend for the year ended Historical TSR performance 30 April 2017 of 58.33 cents 45.22 pence per share 2016: final dividend Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the of 49.74 cents 37.40 pence.
eight years to 30 April 2017 Payments for loss of ofce audited 1,100 There were no payments for loss of ofce during the year.
1,000 900 Payments to past directors audited 800 There were no payments made to past directors during the year.
700 600 500 Other directorships 400 None of the executive directors held any other directorships outside the 300 Group during the year.
200 100 0 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 30 April 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Micro Focus International FTSE 250 Index FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Index Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Directors Remuneration report continued The table below details the Executive Chairmans or, prior to his appointment on 14 April 2011, the Chief Executive Ofcers single total gure of remuneration over the same period: Year ended 30 April 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Kevin Loosemore Single total figure of remuneration 23 1,291 1,304 12,468 4,315 4,231 4,226 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil 90% 92% 100% 100% 100% 45% LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil Nil Nil 199% 100% 100% 100% Nigel Clifford Single total figure of remuneration 628 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil Stephen Kelly Single total figure of remuneration 3,696 Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil LTIP vesting % of maximum 100% Implementation of Remuneration Policy for the year ending 30 April 2018 Subject to Completion of the HPE Software transaction, the following executive director changes will take place.
Chris Hsu will become Chief Executive officer of the Enlarged Group.
Details of his remuneration arrangements following Completion of the transaction and his appointment to the board are included below: and Stephen Murdoch will step down from the board but remain an employee of the Group in the role of Chief Operating officer.
Details of his remuneration arrangements whilst he remains an executive director are included below.
Base salary The table below shows the salaries for the executive directors as at 1 May 2017.
At 1 May At 1 May Executive director 2017 2016 % change Kevin Loosemore 750,000 750,000 n a Mike Phillips 481,750 470,000 2.5% 1 Stephen Murdoch 512,500 500,000 2.5% 2 Nils Brauckmann 550,000 500,000 10.0% 1 Stephen Murdoch will step down from the board following Completion of the HPE Software transaction.
2 As previously discussed with shareholders, due to this being Nils Brauckmanns first board appointment his initial salary was set at a relatively low level with the intention to increase this over time as he develops in the role.
The 10% salary increase is reective of Nilss strong performance to date and the role continuing to increase in size and complexity as the business grows.
As disclosed in the shareholder circular, Chris Hsu will receive a base salary of $1,000,000 following his appointment as CEO to the board subject to the Completion of the HPE Software transaction.
The average basic salary increase across the Group for 2017 is 2.3%.
Pension Executive directors will continue to receive a pension contribution or payment in lieu of pension.
The Executive Chairman receives a payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary whilst other executive directors receive a contribution of 15% of base salary.
88 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Annual bonus The annual bonus will continue to be based on growth in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA on a constant currency basis excluding the impact of in year acquisitions.
There will be zero payment if there is no growth increasing on a straight-line basis to a maximum payment at 10% year-on-year growth.
Subject to completion of the HPE Software transaction the Company is intending to align its year end to 31 October.
This will result in an 18 month financial period ending 31 October 2018 with the New financial year for the Enlarged Group commencing on 1 November 2018.
In this New financial year ending 31 October 2018, the bonus will operate on a similar basis as for the year ended 30 April 2017 and the maximum bonus opportunity for all executive directors will be 150% of salary for the period.
In the period to 31 October 2017 the current executive directors bonus entitlement will be determined by the improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA for the existing business when compared to the six months ended 31 October 2016 whilst the bonus opportunity for Chris Hsu is subject to the performance of HPE Software in the year ending 31 October 2017.
For all executive directors with the exception of the Executive Chairman one-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into Company shares, to maximize long-term shareholder alignment, support retention in a highly competitive and global talent pool, and be in line with typical market practice.
Two-thirds of the bonus will continue to be paid in cash.
The Executive Chairman is exempt as his annual bonus has been 150% since 2011 and its treatment was covered in his service contract which predates the remuneration policy.
Deferred bonus awards will vest in full after three years, subject to continued employment.
For those subject to the changes, malus and claw back provisions will apply to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan, as well as to the cash bonus.
LTIP In the context of the HPE Software transaction, the committee has determined that no LTIP or ASG awards will be made until the transaction has completed.
Any awards made will be in line with the approved remuneration policy.
At present it is anticipated that the performance measures and targets will be on a similar basis as for awards made in 2016.
However, further details of the awards will be made at the time awards are granted and full details in respect of the awards will be provided in next years remuneration report.
Implementation of non-executive director remuneration for the year ending 30 April 2018 Following the annual review of non-executive director fees, it was determined that the fees should be increased to reect the increased size, scope and responsibilities of the roles, in the context of the transaction with HPE software and the Enlarged Group going forwards.
The approach to non-executive directors fees is set out in the table below: Independent non-executive director base fee 70,000 p. a.
Additional fee for chairing a committee 20,000 p. a.
Fee for the SID including chairing committees 120,000 p. a.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited as at 30 April 2017 Nil-cost options held Options Shares held Unvested and Unvested and Shareholding Current owned Vested but not subject to Vested but not subject to requirement shareholding Requirement Director outright exercised performance exercised performance % of salary % of salary met?
2 122,077 shares are held by Mike Phillips wife, Josephine Phillips.
3 Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann are required to have a 150% shareholding within three years of joining as directors on 1 February 2016.
4 Steve Schuckenbrock and Tom Virden resigned on 25 April 2017.
5 2,756 shares are held by Richard Atkins wife, Julie Atkins.
Between 1 May 2017 and 17 July 2017 there had been no changes to these interests.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Directors Remuneration report continued Micro Focus International plc Incentive Plan 2005 Plan The executive directors as at 30 April 2017 held awards granted under the terms of the Plan.
The movements in these awards during the financial year are shown below.
2 In the year ended 30 April 2016, the LTIP awards to Kevin Loosemore, Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch did not vest until 27 June 2016 but the committee believed that the performance measures had been substantially completed by the year end.
3 In the year ended 30 April 2017, the LTIP awards to Kevin Loosemore, Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch did not vest until 27 June 2017 but the committee believed that the performance measures had been substantially completed by the year end.
4 Performance condition requires that cumulative EPS growth over a three year vesting period is at least equal to RPI plus 3% per annum at which point 25% of awards will vest and for full vesting the cumulative EPS growth will be required to be RPI plus 9% per annum.
Straight-line vesting will apply between these points.
Performance against these objectives is determined by the committee based on the Companys audited results.
5 This award vested in full on 27 December 2015.
90 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Additional Share Grant The executive directors as at 30 April 2017 hold the following awards of ASGs.
Number Number Number Number at granted in exercised in lapsed in Number at Exercise Date 1 May 2016 financial year financial year financial year 30 April 2017 price of exercise Kevin Loosemore 947,140 947,140 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 Mike Phillips 676,529 676,529 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 Stephen Murdoch 405,917 405,917 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 Nils Brauckmann 405,917 405,917 0.0p 1 November 2017 to 31 October 2024 The performance condition is that the percentage of ordinary shares subject to the ASG which may be acquired on exercise on or after the vesting date is as follows: i 0% if the Shareholder Return Percentage as dened below is 50% or less: ii 100% if the Shareholder Return Percentage is 100% or more: and iii A percentage determined on a straight line basis between i and ii above.
The Shareholder Return Percentage will be calculated by deducting 819.425 pence per share the Reference Price, being the average of the 20 days before 3 June 2014 being the date of the heads of agreement relating to the proposed combination of Micro Focus and TAG between Micro Focus, Wizard, Golden Gate Capital and Francisco Partners Management LLC, from the sum of the Vesting Price calculated as the average closing share price over the period of 20 days ending on the day prior to the vesting date plus the total of all dividends per share between Completion and the vesting date.
This will be divided by the Reference Price, multiplying the resulting gure by 100 to obtain the Shareholder Return Percentage.
Sharesave In relation to the Sharesave Scheme, Mike Phillips joined the Company scheme on 21 August 2013 at an option price of 5.98 over 1,504 shares that are exercisable from 1 October 2016.
These were exercised during the year.
Share option schemes Details of the Companys share option schemes are given in note 33 of the financial statements.
The mid-market closing price of the shares at 30 April 2017 was 2,588p per share and during the financial year ended 30 April 2017 the mid-market closing price varied between 1,416p and 2,558p per share.
Statement of shareholding voting The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2016 Directors remuneration report at the AGM held on 22 September 2016: Votes for Votes against Number Percentage Number Percentage Votes cast Votes withheld 152,751,869 85.65% 25,598,599 14.35% 178,363,736 12,268 The current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders with a 91.75% vote for at the 2014 AGM, and the amendment to the Remuneration Policy was approved with a 60.56% vote for at the 2014 GM.
The Remuneration Policy was further amended in relation to the operation of the annual bonus and the replicated ASG programme at the 2016 AGM where shareholders approved the changes with a 77.78% vote for.
The reasons for the voting outcome at the 2014 AGM and GM and actions taken by the committee to engage with shareholders were set out in last years report.
On behalf of the board, Amanda Brown Chair of Remuneration Committee 17 July 2017 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91
