The other area I would like to highlight and Dear Shareholder, where I believe we have continued to make REPORT OF THE AUDIT I am delighted to present to you my first good progress is risk management.
The report as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Boards risk appetite and approach towards AND RISK COMMITTEE Committee since joining the Board in June risk is outlined in the Managing risk report 2016.
The Committee has continued to Chairmans introduction on pages 28 to 33.
We have implemented follow a detailed program of work.
We have the recommendations put forward in the been provided with good quality material to external review conducted in the prior allow proper consideration to be given to the year and have also reviewed the work of Committees responsibilities.
Group Internal Audit to ensure that this key The Audit and Risk Committee the function is operating effectively.
Committee has an important role in I hope you find this report useful and I would ensuring the integrity of the Groups welcome any comments.
financial reporting and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Bill Spencer systems and risk management.
Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee 26 June 2017 The report which follows sets out details on the workings of the Committee, the work done during the year and the key issues considered in the preparation of the financial statements and the related information, judgements and assurance received.
The key accounting issue considered during the year continued to be determining appropriate depreciation rates for our vehicles.
This is an area where significant judgement is required and the Committee is satisfied with the rigour applied to this issue.
The Audit and Risk Committee has an important role in ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and risk management.
BILL SPENCER I CHAIRMAN 50 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 51 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE | Reviewed the Groups accounting for Role Activity Risk management supplier rebate arrangements: The role of the Audit and Risk Committee is Since May 2016, the Committee has: As part of the Committees role to oversee set out on page 46. the Groups approach to risk management | Reviewed the possible future impact on | Reviewed the financial statements for the the Committee has monitored the Groups the Groups accounts of new accounting years ended 30 April 2016 and 2017 and Membership risk management processes and business standards which are scheduled to come the half yearly report issued in December The members of the Committee, who are continuity procedures.
into effect in future years: 2016.
As part of this review process, the all non-executive Directors of the Company, Committee received reports from PwC.
| Reviewed and approved the Groups are: This included reviewing the end to end For the full year results this included policy on non-audit fees: processes of identifying and reporting risks making a recommendation to the Date of appointment and implementing improvements to the | Reviewed a management paper on the Board as to whether the Annual Report B Spencer Chairman 1 June 2016 collection of data.
Groups investor relations activities, and Accounts were fair, balanced and J Caseberry 10 December 2012 principally focused on communication The Committee monitored and reviewed understandable: through the annual report: C Miles 27 November 2015 the activities of the Groups Internal Audit | Reviewed and agreed the scope of the | Monitored and assessed the Groups function including agreeing the scope The Code requires that at least one member audit work to be undertaken by PwC and going concern status and viability of work to be performed.
An external of the Committee should have recent and agreed their fees: statement made on page 33: review was commissioned in the year relevant financial experience: currently, | Reviewed the effectiveness of the and recommendations regarding the | Reviewed the Groups Code of Business the Chairman of the Committee fulfils this Groups system of internal controls: methodology of work to be performed and Conduct, including the requirements of requirement.
All members of the Committee | Received regular reports from the Head reporting have since been implemented.
the Bribery Act 2010, and the effective are expected to be financially literate.
of Internal Audit: monitoring of the giving and receiving of Meetings gifts and hospitality: and | Reviewed the progress made by The Committee is required to meet at least management in implementing the control | Reviewed its own effectiveness and terms three times a year.
Details of attendance at improvements recommended by Internal of reference.
meetings held in the year ended 30 April Audit: 2017 are given on page 49.
| Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, procedures: which is linked to events in the Groups | Reviewed the Groups depreciation policy financial calendar, the Committee will and depreciation rates adopted within generally meet four times a year.
The other this policy: Directors, together with the Group Head of | Reviewed the Groups corporate taxation Internal Audit and the external auditor, are arrangements: normally invited to attend all meetings.
| Reviewed the updated external report on cyber security and the extent to which recommendations made in the previous year had been implemented: 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four | Provisions for uncertain tax positions | Certain audit related work such as the Significant issues considered Internal Audit the Committee reviewed formal review of the half year announcement, in relation to the financial In fulfilling its duty to monitor the papers prepared by management at being work that, in its capacity as statements effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, each reporting date which outlined the auditor, it is best placed to carry out During the year the Committee considered, the Committee has: Groups tax positions.
The Committee and will generally be asked to do so.
discussed with the external auditor and | Reviewed the adequacy of the resources challenged areas where significant Nevertheless, where appropriate, it will concluded on what the significant risks of the Internal Audit department for the judgement was taken in order to be asked for a fee quote: and and issues were in relation to the financial UK, Spain and Ireland: determine the level of provisions held in statements and how these would be | Tax compliance, tax advisory and | Ensured that the Head of Internal Audit the balance sheet and was satisfied with addressed: other non-audit related and general has direct access to the Chairman of the judgements made: and consultancy work: this type of work | Determining appropriate the Board and to all members of the | Financial statements the Committee will either be placed on the basis of depreciation rates for vehicles Committee: and considered the presentation of the the lowest fee quote or to consultants available for hire in addition to | Conducted a one-to-one meeting with Annual Report and Accounts, and who are felt to be best able to provide a monthly review of adjustments to the Head of Internal Audit without in particular, the analysis between the expertise and working relationship depreciation when vehicles are sold, management present, approved underlying and statutory disclosures.
The external auditor is not the Committee reviewed formal the internal audit programme and We were satisfied with managements invited to compete for this type of work.
papers prepared by management at reviewed quarterly reports by the Head presentation.
each reporting date which included a Fees paid and payable to PwC in respect of of Internal Audit.
qualitative assessment of the current External auditor the year under review are as shown in Note and forecast trends in the used vehicle The Chairman of the Committee will The Committee reviews and makes 5 on page 99. market.
After due challenge and debate, be available at the AGM to answer any recommendations with regard to the the Committee were content with the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness questions about the work of the Committee.
appointment of the external auditor.
assumptions and judgements made: and independence of the external In making this recommendation, the Bill Spencer auditor, taking into account input from | The recoverability of aged trade Committee considers auditor effectiveness Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee management, consideration of responses receivables throughout the period, and independence, partner rotation and any 26 June 2017 to questions from the Committee and the KPIs are provided.
The Committee other factors which may impact upon the audit findings reported to the Committee.
ensured that management dedicated external auditors reappointment.
PwC was The Committee also conducted one-to-one sufficient resources to mitigate bad debt first appointed in September 2015 and the meetings with the audit partner without risk across the Group: Committee supports a proposed resolution management being present.
Based on all of at the AGM in September 2017 to re-appoint this information, the Committee concluded them for a further year.
that the audit process was operating The Boards policy on non-audit services effectively.
As a result of this the Committee provided by the external auditor, developed has recommended to the Board the and recommended by the Committee, is: reappointment of PwC at the AGM.
52 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 53 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Dear Shareholder, Executive change REMUNERATION On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to In January 2017, Bob Contreras left the introduce the Directors remuneration business and Kevin Bradshaw was appointed report for the year ended 30 April 2017. as CEO.
Kevins salary, benefits and variable REPORT The report is divided into three sections, remuneration opportunities are at the same Chairmans introduction namely: i the annual statement: ii the level as the former CEO and no buy-out remuneration policy which details the payments were made.
Directors remuneration policy which we The remuneration package will be reviewed will be seeking shareholder approval for at in May 2018 following an assessment of the forthcoming AGM : and iii the annual his performance and a review of market remuneration report.
Performance of the Group In accordance with Bob Contreras Service FY2017 was a challenging year for the Agreement, he is entitled to a payment Company, with increased competition in all in lieu of 12 months notice, subject to territories.
Spain and Ireland grew vehicles mitigation.
In line with our remuneration on hire and self-help measures have been policy and good leaver status, Bob must initiated in the UK.
Considerable insight of exercise his deferred bonus shares within our growth opportunity has been gained six months of leaving the business.
His EPSP giving us confidence going forward.
awards will remain subject to performance, | Underlying profit before tax 75.0m vest pro-rata and on the original dates.
2016 82.9m Remuneration policy review | Underlying basic earnings per share 47.3p During the course of the last six months the 2016 49.0p : Remuneration Committee the Committee | Underlying free cash flow generation of undertook a full review of the policy, which 44.0m 2016 48.4m : will be presented for a binding vote at this years AGM.
The objectives of this review | 8% increase in proposed full year were to ensure that the policy continues to dividend per share to 17.3p 2016 align with the Groups strategy, duly reflects 16.0p.
Northgate is committed to a investor best practise, and provides us with the ability to attract, motivate and retain transparent and open dialogue with high-calibre executive talent.
The objective of In developing the proposals for the revised policy, we have consulted with our major this report is to communicate clearly shareholders, the Investment Association, ISS the strong link between executive and Glass Lewis Governance Services, as well as taking into account the climate of opinion pay and performance.
on reward and pay for executive directors.
Following the review the Committee JILL CASEBERRY I CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE concluded that a small number of minor changes should be proposed.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Key changes: Review of remuneration for Executive Performance Share Plan Other items 2017 and basis for 2018 EPSP As previously reported, our depreciation | Bringing the CEO annual bonus target Base salary Vesting of the EPSP award granted on the rates were reduced on 1 May 2012 and and threshold performance into line with 27 June 2014 was based on performance 1 May 2014 in the UK and 1 May 2014 In line with the senior level UK workforce, that for other Directors: over the three years ended 30 April 2017. in Spain.
Where appropriate, when no salary increases have been awarded | Introduction of a two-year post vesting This award was subject to EPS performance setting performance targets in future, the to the CEO or CFO for the year ending holding period for long term incentive for 60% of the award and ROCE for the Committee will take this into account.
With 30 April 2018. awards granted from 2017: other 40%.
The performance achieved has regard to outstanding unvested EPSP awards | Providing discretion for the Committee Annual bonus resulted in 61.8% vesting before pro-rating the Committee has agreed that it will review to determine that dividend equivalents Annual bonus targets for the year ended for period of service.
Further detail regarding the position at the end of the performance will be paid on deferred bonus or 30 April 2017 were based on profit before this award can be found on page 67. period, for each award, when the exact performance share awards: tax 75% of maximum opportunity and impact is known and make any adjustment For the coming year, EPSP award levels for key strategic targets 25% of maximum | Increase of minimum shareholding level it considers appropriate.
Any adjustment will the CEO and CFO remain unchanged from opportunity with a ROCE underpin.
As from 150% of salary to 200% of salary be fully explained in the annual report on this year and EPS and TSR continue to be the profit before tax threshold was not for both CEO and CFO: and remuneration for the relevant year.
The balance between met, bonus has not been awarded to | Executive Directors contracts to provide these metrics remains 60% on EPS and Conclusion Bob Contreras, Kevin Bradshaw or Paddy for equal notice periods for the executive 40% on TSR compared to the FTSE 250 The Committee remains committed to a Gallagher.
Full details of the bonus criteria Director and Company.
Normally the excluding Investment Trusts.
The EPS target remuneration policy and implementation, and calculations can be found on page 67. notice period will be six months.
is set at a level to encourage progressive which provides the appropriate opportunity The maximum annual bonus opportunity and sustainable growth of earnings for for the executives to be fairly rewarded for Full details of the proposed changes can be and performance metrics for the coming shareholders.
Since 2013 there has been a their contribution to the business, aligned found on pages 56 to 64. year are the same as for the year just ended.
threshold of CPI 3% p. a. and a stretch of with the interest of all stakeholders.
Performance targets will be disclosed Overall reward structure CPI 11% p. a. and these remain the targets We value the support that shareholders have retrospectively in next years report.
The Committee continues to believe that for the coming years awards.
provided in the past, including the 99% vote the total reward available to its executives Upon review of the FY2016 bonus paid Committee changes given to approve our remuneration report should be competitive for a company of to Bob Contreras in July 2016 an error During the course of the year Andrew Allner at the 2016 AGM.
Northgate is committed Northgates size, complexity and geography.
This error resulted in an stepped down from the Committee, as he is to a transparent and open dialogue with In order to ensure strong alignment to the overpayment of bonus in the sum of no longer independent, but he continues to shareholders and we look forward to interests of shareholders, the policy provides 41,000, split equally between shares and offer wise counsel as he attends meetings your continued support at our AGM in a greater weighting to the variable elements cash.
Subsequently, using the clawback by invitation.
of remuneration and for a significant provisions of the bonus scheme all monies proportion of the remuneration package to Jill Caseberry due have been repaid.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 June 2017 54 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 55 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Policy Report This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out However, when setting the levels of short-term and longConsideration of employment conditions the remuneration policy for the Company and has been term variable remuneration, consideration is given to setting elsewhere in the Group prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the right balance between equity and cash so as not to When setting remuneration policy for the executive Directors The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups encourage unnecessary risk taking.
the Committee takes into account the overall approach to Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, reward for and the pay and employment conditions of other The Committee will seek to ensure that the incentive the UK Code on Corporate Governance and the UK Listing employees in the Group and salary increases will ordinarily, structure will not raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating Rules.
Our Directors remuneration policy was approved in percentage terms, be in line with those of the wider irresponsible behaviour and will take account of ESG matters by shareholders at our AGM on 18 September 2014 and workforce in the UK.
The Committee is also provided with generally in determining overall remuneration policy became effective from that date.
The policy outlined below periodic updates on employee remuneration practices and and structure.
is a new policy for the three years from 2017 and will be put trends across the Group which inform the Committees to a binding vote of shareholders at the AGM to be held on discussions on executive remuneration.
The Company does 19 September 2017. not formally consult with employees on the Directors remuneration policy.
How the views of shareholders are taken into account The remuneration policy for Directors The Committee takes seriously the views of its shareholders.
The Committee aims to ensure that executive Directors are fairly and competitively rewarded for their individual Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each contributions by means of basic salary, benefits in kind and year, and any other meetings and communications with pension benefits.
High levels of performance are recognised shareholders, is considered by the Committee as part of its by annual bonuses and the motivation to achieve the annual review of remuneration policy.
maximum benefit for shareholders in the future is provided When any material changes are proposed to be made to the by the allocation of long term incentives.
Only basic salary remuneration policy, the Committee Chairman will inform is pensionable.
major shareholders and will offer a meeting to discuss The Committees policy is to apply greater weighting the changes.
to the variable elements of executive remuneration and If any shareholders raise concerns with regard to by incentivising the longer term performance of the remuneration issues, we would endeavour to understand Company, to provide greater alignment with the interests and respond to those concerns either by meetings or of shareholders.
It is also the Committees policy to pay a significant Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to proportion of the potential remuneration package in equity, approve last years remuneration report and principal matters to ensure that executives have a strong ongoing alignment discussed with shareholders during the year are provided in with shareholders through the Companys share price the annual remuneration report.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four The table below summarises the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for its Directors.
Key aspects of the remuneration policy for Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity BASE SALARY To recruit and reward executives of a Reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of Company performance, Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the general suitable calibre for the role and duties individual performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase for the increase for the broader UK employee population but on occasions may need to required broader UK population.
recognise, for example, changes in the scale, scope, complexity or responsibility of the role, and or specific retention issues, and to allow the base salary of Reference is also made to remuneration levels within relevant FTSE and industry newly appointed executives to increase in line with their experience and comparator companies.
The Committee considers the impact of any basic salary increase on the total Details of the outcome of the most recent salary review are provided in the remuneration package.
No change to policy from 2014 vote.
BENEFITS To provide market competitive benefits to The Company typically provides: The value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and is not ensure the wellbeing of executives pre-determined.
It is a relatively small part of the overall value of the total | A car or cash allowance in lieu remuneration package.
| Medical insurance | Death in service benefits | Critical illness insurance | Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses as required Executive Directors are also entitled to 30 days leave per annum.
Reimbursement of all costs associated with reasonable expenses incurred for the proper performance of the role.
Proposed change from 2014 vote Reimbursement of all costs associated with reasonable expenses incurred for the proper performance of the role.
PENSION To provide market competitive retirement A Company contribution to a Group personal pension plan or provision of cash Up to 18% of salary.
benefits allowance in lieu at the request of the individual.
56 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 57 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Remuneration Policy Report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity ANNUAL BONUS To encourage and reward delivery of the The annual bonus is based on performance against one or more financial Maximum: 150% of salary CEO: 100% of salary other executives.
Companys operational objectives and targets.
A proportion not exceeding 25% may also be based on non-financial Target: 50% of maximum.
to provide alignment with shareholders strategic KPIs.
through the deferred share element Threshold: 25% of maximum.
Details of the performance measures and targets where these are not considered commercially sensitive set for the year under review is provided in For performance below threshold, no bonus is payable.
the annual report on remuneration.
Up to 100% of salary, half of any bonus earned is paid in shares and any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary will be paid entirely in shares, which are available to executive Directors after three years, ordinarily subject to continued employment.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to determine the payment of dividend equivalents arising over the period between grant and the vesting date.
These may be paid in cash or shares.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust the final outcome upwards or downwards in the event that an exceptional event outside of the Directors control occurs, which, in the Committees opinion, materially affected the bonus out-turn.
Clawback provisions apply to all participants in the event of a restatement of the Groups accounts, error in assessing performance criteria, poor risk management, misrepresentation or such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee determines.
Proposed change from 2014 vote Bringing the opportunity for the CEO at threshold and target performance into line with that for other Directors.
Providing the discretion for the Committee to determine that dividend equivalents will be paid on deferred bonus awards.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity LONG-TERM INCENTIVES To encourage and reward delivery of the Annual awards of performance shares or nil cost options to executive Directors.
The maximum grant limit in the plan rules is 150% of salary face value of Companys strategic objectives and provide shares at grant although exceptionally 250% may be used, e. g. in recruitment.
Awards are granted subject to continued employment and satisfaction of alignment with shareholders through the challenging performance conditions measured over three years.
The normal grant policy is 150% of salary for each executive Director.
use of shares Between 2010 and 2014 awards were granted subject to both an EPS and a 25% of the grant vests for threshold performance increasing in a straight line to ROCE performance condition.
In 2015, and subsequently, the awards have 100% for maximum performance.
been granted subject to both EPS and TSR.
Other measures and or longer If performance is below threshold for a measure, then the proportion of the performance periods may be proposed in the future if the Committee feels that award subject to that measure will lapse.
they would better support the Companys medium or long term objectives.
If the Committee considers that the changes are substantive it will consult with the Companys major shareholders prior to making any changes.
Awards will vest, subject to performance, on the third anniversary of grant and will be subject to an additional two year holding period post vesting, during which time awarded shares may not be sold other than for tax.
The terms of the EPSP rules provide the Committee with the discretion to grant and or settle all or part of an EPSP award in cash.
In practice this discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances for executive Directors or to enable the Company to settle any tax or social security withholding which may apply.
Proposed change from 2014 vote Introduction of a post vesting holding period for EPSP awards granted from 2017.
Providing the discretion for the Committee to determine that dividend equivalents will be paid on EPSP awards.
The ability to grant and or settle all or part of an EPSP award in cash to be used only in exceptional circumstances for executive Directors or to enable the Company to settle any tax or social security withholding which may apply.
58 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 59 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Remuneration Policy Report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEME All employees including executive Directors The SIP has standard terms under which all UK employees can participate.
The Employees can elect to contribute up to a maximum amount determined by the are encouraged to become shareholders rules for this plan were last approved by the shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
Company and within the statutory limits for SIPs per month from pre-tax salary through the operation of an all employee which is used to buy shares in the Company.
The Company may in addition HMRC approved SIP.
The Board believes make an award of free Matching shares at a ratio not exceeding the statutory that encouraging wider share ownership by limit for SIPs.
all staff will have longer term benefits for The Company may also make awards of free shares to all employees including the Company and for shareholders executive Directors, on an equal basis.
The maximum award would not exceed the maximum limit for SIPs.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES To attract and retain a high-calibre The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
The non-executives The maximum aggregate amount is currently 700,000 as provided in the Chairman and non-executive Directors by are paid a basic fee.
The Chairmen of the main Board Committees and the Articles of Association.
offering a market competitive fee level senior independent Director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra Details of the outcome of the most recent fee review are provided in the annual responsibilities.
The level of these fees is reviewed every two to three years by the Committee and CEO for the Chairman and by the Chairman and executive Directors for the non-executive Directors within the overall limit set by the Articles of Association and with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, time commitment and responsibilities of the non-executive Directors.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four All historic awards that were granted under any current Choice of performance measures and Annual bonus plan and share plan policy or previous share schemes operated by the Company but approach to target setting The Committee will operate the DABP, EPSP and SIP remain outstanding detailed on page 70 of the annual The annual bonus is based on performance against one or according to the rules of each respective plan and consistent report on remuneration, remain eligible to vest based on more financial measures and may also include an element with normal market practice and the Listing Rules, including their original award terms.
of non-financial strategic KPIs if the Committee feels it flexibility in a number of regards.
Factors over which the appropriate, all based on the priorities for the business in the Committee will retain flexibility include albeit with quantum It is proposed that the Committee be provided discretion to year ahead.
The Committee will set stretching performance and performance targets restricted to the descriptions enable that dividend equivalents be paid on DABP and EPSP targets taking into account market and investor expectations, detailed above : awards from date of grant to vesting.
prevailing market conditions and the Companys business | Who participates in the plans: plan for the year.
Share ownership requirements | When to make awards and payments: It is proposed that executive Directors are required to The Committee may also set an overarching financial hurdle, | How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or accumulate, over a period of five years from the date of for example and depending on the actual metrics set, ROCE when and how much of an award should vest: appointment, a holding of Ordinary shares of the Company or budgeted operating profit of the Group or another equivalent in value to 200% of their basic annual salary, | How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of appropriate measure for the year, which, if not achieved, measured annually.
It is intended that this should be the Group: would result in no bonus being awarded, regardless of achieved primarily through the exercise of share incentive | Other than in the case of stated good leaver reasons performance against the set targets.
awards and that Directors are not required to go into the whether a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan market to purchase shares, although any shares so acquired Awards under the EPSP will be based on performance purposes and whether and what proportion of awards would count towards meeting the guidelines.
Executive against one or more financial measures.
The measures since vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date s Directors are required to retain all vested DABP and EPSP 2015 have been EPS and TSR.
The Committee has selected as relevant: awards on vesting, subject to sales to meet tax obligations, these measures to closely reflect the importance the Board | How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain and the Remuneration Committees discretion in exceptional places on profitability and balance sheet management.
The circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate circumstances until the ownership requirement is met.
Committee considers EPS and TSR are the most appropriate restructuring or for special dividends : and measures at the time of setting this executive Directors Differences in remuneration policy | What the weighting, measures and targets should be for Remuneration Policy since they incentivise the executives for executive Directors compared to the annual bonus plan and EPSP from year to year.
to both improve the earnings profile of the Group and other employees manage balance sheet efficiency important for a capital The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy The remuneration policy for the executive Directors is intensive business, both of which should flow through to to adjust targets and or set different measures and alter designed with regard to the policy for employees across the superior returns for shareholders.
The Committee will review weightings for the annual bonus plan and to adjust targets Group as a whole.
For example, the Committee takes into the choice of performance measures and set appropriately for the EPSP if events happen that cause it to determine that account the general basic salary increase for the broader challenging targets prior to each award being made based the conditions are unable to fulfil their original intended UK employee population when determining the annual on market conditions and the Companys long term priorities purpose provided that they are not in all the circumstances salary review for the executive Directors.
There are some and business plan at that time.
The targets for outstanding considered by the Committee to be materially less difficult differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for awards are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
the executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Company.
The key differences in remuneration 60 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 61 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Remuneration Policy Report policy between the executive Directors and employees across The Committee may offer additional cash and or shareAn executive Directors service contract may be terminated the Group are the increased emphasis on performance based elements when it considers these to be in the best without notice and without any further payment or related pay and the inclusion of a significant share based interests of the Company and its shareholders to take compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of long term incentive plan for executive Directors.
Long account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as term incentives are not provided outside of the most former employer and would reflect as far as possible the gross misconduct.
If the employing company terminates the senior executives as they are reserved for those considered nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and employment of an executive Director in other circumstances, as having the greatest potential to influence Group the impact of any performance conditions.
compensation is limited to salary due for any unexpired performance.
notice period and any amount assessed by the Committee For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay as representing the value of other contractual benefits In accordance with best practice it is proposed that the element awarded in respect of the prior role will be including pension which would have been received executive Directors are required to hold any awards under allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any during the period.
In the event of a change of control of EPSP for two years following vesting.
other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to the Company there is no enhancement to contractual appointment may continue, if relevant.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the External non-executive Director positions Companys registered office.
Subject to Board approval, executive Directors will normally For external and internal executive appointments, the be permitted to take on one non-executive position with Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain In circumstances in which a departing Director may be another company.
In line with best practice it is proposed relocation and other incidental expenses as appropriate.
entitled to pursue a legal claim, the Company may negotiate that the Director will normally be permitted to retain settlement terms and, with the approval of the Committee For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive their fees in respect of such positions.
Details of outside on the remuneration elements therein, enter into a Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance directorships held by the executive Directors, if any, and settlement agreement accordingly.
with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
any fees that they received are provided in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Service contracts and payments for loss of office Approach to recruitment and promotions The Remuneration Committee reviews the contractual terms The remuneration package for a new Director would be set for new executive Directors to ensure that these reflect best in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved practice.
Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
Currently, for an executive Director, this would facilitate Service contracts normally continue until the Directors awards of no more than 150% of salary per annum for each agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties of the DABP and EPSP, although exceptionally an EPSP award agree.
The service contracts contain provision for early of up to 250% may be made.
Notice periods given by the employing company are limited to 12 months or less.
In line with The salary for a new executive, particularly one with no best practice it is proposed that equal notice periods will experience at listed company main board level, may be set apply to the executive Directors and the Company and that below the normal market rate, with phased increases over these will normally be six months, although in exceptional the first few years as the executive gains experience in their circumstances a notice period may be agreed of up to a new role.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four In summary, the proposed contractual provisions are as follows: Provision Detailed terms Notice period Current executive Directors: six months from the executive and six months from the Company.
Any future executive Directors: normally a six months notice from both the Company and the Director up to a maximum of 12 months in exceptional circumstances.
Termination payment Base salary plus benefits including pension, subject to mitigation and paid on a phased basis for notice period.
In addition, any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with the termination would be paid as necessary.
Remuneration A pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with vesting entitlements for outstanding share awards in certain circumstances see below.
In all cases performance targets would apply.
Change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change of control.
Any share based entitlements granted to an executive All non-executive Directors have letters of appointment with Director under the Companys share plans will be determined the Company for an initial period of three years, subject based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The Chairmans is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of appointment may be terminated by the Company with one employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, months notice.
The appointment of the other non-executive such as death, ill health, redundancy, transfer of the Directors is terminable without notice.
The appointment employees employing business out of the Group or other letters for the Chairman and non-executive Directors provide circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into that no compensation is payable on termination, other than account the individuals performance and the reasons for accrued fees and expenses.
their departure, good leaver status can be applied.
Under Legacy arrangements the EPSP, awards held by good leavers will usually be scaled For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this remuneration back for the actual period of service and vest at the date policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any of cessation although the Committee has the discretion to commitments entered into with current or former Directors not scale back if it considers this is appropriate and also to such as the payment of a pension or the vesting of share determine that vesting should be at the usual time.
DABP awards that have been disclosed to shareholders in awards held by good leavers will usually vest on cessation previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments or if the Committee determines at the usual vesting date.
to former Directors will be set out in the annual report on For share awards under the EPSP and held by good leavers, remuneration as they arise.
awards remain subject to the performance conditions.
For all leavers, the Committee may also determine to make a payment in reimbursement of a reasonable level of outplacement and legal fees in connection with a settlement agreement as well as any statutory entitlement.
62 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 63 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Remuneration Policy Report Reward scenarios Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance The Companys policy results in a significant portion 1,800 of remuneration received by executive Directors being 1,726 dependent on Company performance.
The chart opposite 1,600 illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the executive Directors vary under three different performance scenarios: 1,400 maximum, on-target and fixed pay only.
These charts are 1,214 indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual 1,200 35% have been excluded.
All assumptions made are noted below 1,114 the chart.
1,000 27% 808 800 40% 30% 600 27% 35% 502 20% 27% 402 400 200 100% 45% 29% 100% 50% 33% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO CFO Long-term incentives Fixed pay Annual bonus Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Assumptions: Fixed Pay salary benefits pension On-target F ixed plus 50% vesting of the EPSP awards and 50% of the annual bonus opportunity Maximum Fixed plus 100% of the annual bonus opportunity and 100% of the EPSP awards Salary levels on which other elements of the package are calculated are based on those applying on 1 May 2017.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits as disclosed for the year ending 30 April 2018.
The executive Directors can participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this scheme is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity and because of uncertainty over the value that may be received from participating in this scheme, it has been excluded from the above charts.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Remuneration 000s REMUNERATION REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration The CEO attends meetings by invitation and assists the The Committee is responsible for making recommendations The Remuneration Committee Committee in its deliberations, except when issues relating to the Board on the remuneration packages and terms and The members of the Committee are listed below.
All are to his remuneration are discussed.
No Directors are involved conditions of employment of the Chairman and the executive independent non-executive Directors, as defined in the in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary Directors of the Company as well as the Company Secretary.
UK Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of acts as Secretary to the Committee.
the Group Chairman, A Page, who was independent on The senior executives below Board level in the UK, Spain appointment.
The Committee is advised by NBS, which was first appointed and Ireland, also have a significant influence on the ability of by the Committee in 2003.
NBS advises the Committee the Company to achieve its goals.
Accordingly, in addition The members of the Committee during the last financial year on executive remuneration matters including topical to setting the remuneration of the executive Directors, the and their attendance at the meetings of the Committee were: remuneration issues which are of particular relevance to Committee also reviews the remuneration for these senior Number of the Company, on incentive arrangements for the Directors employees to ensure that their rewards are competitive with meetings and senior staff, on all employee share plans and on the market and that they are appropriate relative to the attended out remuneration reporting and compliance matters.
NBS liaises Board and employees generally.
The Committee also reviews of potential with the Committee Chairman and Company Secretary and remuneration policy generally throughout the Group.
maximum considers how best it can work with the Company to meet J Caseberry Chairman 4 out of 4 the Committees needs.
1 AJ Allner 1 out of 4 The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the A Page 4 out of 4 Committee during the year were 32,708 2016 29,947.
B Spencer 4 out of 4 The fees are predominantly charged on a time spent basis.
C Miles 4 out of 4 NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of 1 AJ Allner stepped down as a Committee member at the AGM Conduct.
Neither NBS nor Aon plc overall provide any other in September 2016.
He attended one meeting as a Committee member, the remainder he has attended by invitation.
services to the Company and the Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives is objective and independent.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
com 64 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 65 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration 1 Kevin Bradshaw was appointed to the Board on 11 January 2017.
Remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2017 audited 2 The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in relation to performance in the year ended 30 April Bob Contreras retired from the Board on 11 January 2017.
2017 or for performance periods ending in the year ended 30 April 2017 in respect of long term incentives and in the year 3 Paddy Gallagher was appointed to the Board on 22 February 2016. ended 30 April 2016.
4 Bill Spencer was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2016.
5 Claire Miles was appointed to the Board on 27 November 2015.
Salary Taxable Annual Long Term Loss of 6 7 8 9 000 & Fees Benefits Bonus incentive Pension Other Office Total 6 Taxable Benefits: Executive RL Directors K Bradshaw Contreras PJ Gallagher 1 000 000 000 K Bradshaw 2017 125 7 23 155 2 Car 6 13 17 RL Contreras 2017 284 14 355 51 3 166 873 Medical insurance 1 1 1 2016 408 7 208 438 73 4 1,138 3 PJ Gallagher 2017 325 18 59 402 7 This relates to the 2014 EPSP award, details of which are given on 2016 62 5 16 10 93 page 67.
The value of the options vesting in respect of FY2016 Chairman shown in last years accounts of 505,000 was valued at the A Page 2017 163 163 average closing share price over the last three months of that financial year of 385p per share.
They have been restated using 2016 138 138 the actual share price on that date of vesting 9 July 2016 of 334p.
Non-executive The options vesting in respect of FY2017 are valued at the average Directors closing price over the last three months of FY2017 of 543p.
AJ Allner 2017 63 63 8 The executive Directors are eligible for membership of a Group 2016 71 71 personal pension plan under which they are entitled to a 4 B Spencer 2017 62 62 contribution from the Company of 18% of basic salary.
In view of the Annual Allowance cap, part or all of their entitlements were J Caseberry 2017 65 65 paid to them in cash.
2016 65 65 9 This represents the value of Matching shares awarded under the 5 C Miles 2017 55 55 SIP which have fully vested in the year i. e. they are no longer 2016 28 28 subject to forfeiture, valued at the market price on the date of vesting.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four In accordance with Bob Contreras Service Agreement and Annual bonus for the year ended 30 April 2017 audited his agreement with the Company relating to the termination Deferred annual bonus plan of his employment, following the Termination Date 11 The bonus for the executive Directors in respect of the year under review was based as to 75% on Group PBT and 25% on January 2017 Bob is entitled to receive a payment in lieu of strategic objectives, with a ROCE underpin below which no bonus would be payable, and a minimum PBT threshold.
For the his 12 month notice period.
This payment is to be made in year ended 30 April 2017, the PBT threshold of 76.0m was not met and no bonus has been paid to any executive Directors.
equal monthly instalments with any remuneration received Vesting of EPSP awards during the 12 months following the Termination Date being offset against the monthly amount being paid to him by The EPSP award granted on 27 June 2014 was based on performance over the three years ended 30 April 2017.
As disclosed the Company, excluding the remuneration received by in previous annual reports, the performance condition for this award was as follows: him from Speedy Hire Plc as a non-executive Director.
His salary and benefits at Northgate as at the Termination Date End equated to 499,320 per annum.
The total amount paid Threshold target Stretch target measurement Performance Condition 25% Vesting 100% Vesting point Actual Adjusted % Vesting in this financial year after he ceased to be a Director was EPS 35.1p 35.1p Final year of the 47.3p 45.9p 80.8 therefore 195,746.
Upon review an error in the calculation 60% of award CPI 3% p. a. CPI 11% p. a. performance of the FY2016 bonus paid to Bob Contreras in July 2016 was 39.1p 48.3p period identified.
This error resulted in an overpayment of bonus in ROCE 11.7% 12.6% Average of the 11.9% 11.8% 33.3 the sum of 41,000, split equally between shares and cash.
40% of award 3 years of the Subsequently, using the clawback provisions of the performance bonus scheme all monies due have been repaid from the period monthly installments of the pay in lieu of notice in May and June 2017.
As indicated in last years report, the EPS and ROCE targets and out-turns have been adjusted to reflect the changes in vehicle depreciation rates which were not envisaged when the targets were originally set.
Kevin Bradshaw was appointed to the Board on 11 January The resulting vesting position will therefore be: 2017 at a basic salary of 408,000 per annum, which will be reviewed in May 2018 following an assessment Original award Total vesting Pro rating Total shares shares % % vesting of performance and a review of market conditions.
His 1 maximum annual bonus potential is 150% of basic salary RL Contreras 117,647 61.8 90.0 65,469 and his maximum annual award level under the EPSP Note 1: The number of shares vesting to Bob Contreras has been pro rated for time to reflect his period of service with the Company relative to is 150% of salary.
There was no buyout of incentive the performance period 986 out of 1,095 days.
arrangements from his previous employer.
66 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 67 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration EPSP awards made during the year audited The following EPSP awards were granted to executive Directors during the year: % of face Number of value that Vesting Basis of Share price shares over Face would vest determined by Type of award at date of which award value of on threshold performance 1 award granted award was granted award performance over 2 K Bradshaw Nil cost 150% of 510p 36,107 184,146 25% Three financial option salary of years to 408,000 30 April 2019 3 RL Contreras Nil cost 150% of 316p 193,364 611,997 25% As above option salary of 408,000 PJ Gallagher Nil cost 150% of 316p 154,028 487,499 25% As above option salary of 325,000 1 Grants made to Bob Contreras and Paddy Gallagher on 18 July 2016.
Share price at 30 June 2016, being the date of the Preliminary Announcement of the results for FY2016.
Grant made to Kevin Bradshaw on 26 January 2017 and share price at date award was made.
2 The award was pro rated for time to reflect the start date and awarded on 18 January 2017.
The original grant was made over an excess number of shares 47,597.
A deed of surrender in respect of the excess was executed and this excess lapsed.
3 The number of shares vesting to Bob Contreras will be pro rated for time to reflect his period of service with the Company relative to the performance period 8 out of 36 months.
This award is subject to EPS and TSR targets as follows: Threshold target Stretch target Performance condition 25% vesting 100% vesting End measurement point EPS 60% of award 49.0 p CPI 3% p. a.
Final year of the performance period relative to FTSE 250 TSR 40% of award Median Upper quartile excl.
investment trusts over the performance period.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Percentage change in remuneration levels Total shareholder return TSR 2016 2017 % change 1 CEO 000 350 salary 408 408 0 benefits 16 21 31 300 bonus 209 100 Average per UK employee 250 salary 24,640 25,676 4 200 benefits 1,691 1,570 7 bonus 383 817 113 150 The CEOs figure is calculated as the combined salary and benefits of Bob Contreras and Kevin Bradshaw.
This shows the movement 100 in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO between the year under review and the previous financial 50 year compared to that for the average UK employee.
The Committee has chosen this comparator as it feels that it 0 provides a more appropriate reflection of the earnings of 30-Apr-09 30-Apr-10 30-Apr-11 30-Apr-12 30-Apr-13 30-Apr-14 30-Apr-15 30-Apr-16 30-Apr-17 the average worker than the movement in the Groups total Northgate plc FTSE 250 Excl.
Trusts Index FTSE SmallCap Excl.
Trusts wage bill, which is distorted by movements in the number of employees and variations in wage practices in Spain.
This graph shows the value, at 30 April 2017, of 100 invested in Northgate plc on 30 April 2009, compared with the value Performance graph measured by TSR of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Excl.
Trusts and FTSE SmallCap Excl.
Trusts Indices on the same date.
The other As required by the Regulations, the graph below illustrates the points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
performance of Northgate plc measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid against a Total remuneration for CEO broad equity market index over the last eight years.
As the Year ended 30 April 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Company has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 index for Total Remuneration 000 821 1,115 859 628 1,138 1,214 821 the majority of that time, that index excluding investment Annual bonus % of maximum 100% 100% 0% 43.6% 90.3% 34.1% 0% companies is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark.
The mid-market price of the Companys Ordinary Long term incentive vesting % of maximum 0% 100% 33.3% 0% 47.9% 79.2% 61.8% shares at 28 April 2017 was 535p 30 April 2016 403p.
The This shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO during each of those financial years.
The total remuneration figure range during the year was 323p to 645p.
includes the annual bonus and EPSP awards which vested based on performance periods ending in those years.
The annual The chart opposite shows the Companys TSR performance bonus and EPSP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
In years when there was a against the performance of the FTSE 250 index from 30 April change of CEO, the figures shown are the aggregate for the office holders during that year.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 2017 % increase Staff costs 89,368 93,850 5.0 Dividends 20,139 21,875 8.6 The table above shows the movement in spend on staff costs versus that in dividends.
68 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 69 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Value Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG REMUNERATION CONTINUED REPORT Annual Report on Remuneration Outstanding share awards The tables below set out details of executive Directors outstanding share awards.
K Bradshaw audited Number of Number of shares at Granted Vested Exercised Lapsed shares at End of Grant Exercise 1 May during during during during 30 April performance Vesting Scheme date price p 2016 year year year year 2017 period date Exercise period EPSP 26.01.17 Nil 36,107 36,107 30.04.19 26.01.20 26.01.20 26.01.27 The original grant was made over an excess number of shares 47,597.
2 Linked Deferred Award with a capped value of 30,000.
