Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Committee Report Committee Chairmans overview The Committee undertook a significant Remuneration outcomes in 2016 17 The Company has delivered another On behalf of the Board, I am review of the remuneration policy in pleasedto present the Directors 2015 leading to a new policy receiving year of solid performance against ourKPIs.
Remuneration Report for the year the support of 98% of shareholders at ended 1 April 2017. our 2015 AGM.
This represented our In particular, revenue grew by 19%, first full policy review for 10 years Our executive remuneration framework andcoincided with the need to seek adjusted EPS grew by 17% and the Board is proposing a further 7% operates within a culture of strong shareholder approval for a new governance, a discipline which is long-term equity incentive plan to increase in dividend per share for shareholders.
With tight controls on reflected throughout the Companys replace the previous time-expired plan.
Halmas strategy is to build capital, the Economic Value Added performance condition generated astrong competitive advantage Having now had two years following the inspecialised safety, health and implementation of the policy, I remain total annual bonus payments to executive Directors of between 42% environmental technology markets pleased to say that no structural with resilient growth drivers.
This changes are considered necessary to and 65% of base salary.
Of these the policy or its implementation for the amounts one third will be deferred for strategy has long been underpinned bythe remuneration framework which forthcoming year.
two years and is payable in shares.
balances a short-term incentive related to improvements in the Economic Internal appointments in 2016 17 Performance was similarly robust As referenced in Paul Walkers overthe three-year performance ValueAdded EVA in a financial year including an element deferred for two Nomination Committee narrative, period for the performance share Jennifer Ward was appointed to awards granted in 2014, with averaged years in the form of shares with a longer-term share incentive related theBoard mid-year, at which time ROTIC of 15.7% and Total Shareholder theCommittee considered her Return of 79% putting Halma in the toReturn on Total Invested Capital ROTIC, Earnings per Share EPS remuneration and set it in accordance top quartile of its comparator group.
In this case, her salary and, formerly, Total Shareholder Return TSR.
was elevated to 300,000 per annum Accordingly, 91.58% of the and her incentive opportunities aligned performance share awards is with those of her fellow Executive expectedto vest.
The Committee Director, Adam Meyers.
issatisfied that there has been a robust link between reward and performance over these periods.
88 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Implementation of The next review of the remuneration Allocation of time the policy for 2017 18 policy will occur during 2017 18 with a As mentioned, there are no policy vote at the 2018 AGM.
We do 4 structuralchanges proposed to not anticipate the necessity to make 3 theimplementation of the policy for any significant changes and will 2017 18.
Base salaries for executive concentrate on ensuring the most Directors have been increased by appropriate metrics are set for 1.8%to 4.0%, in line with the average incentive arrangements.
increase for the workforce generally.
Shareholder voting at the 2017 AGM 2 The Committee has determined As we are not making any further 1 appropriately stretching economic changes to our remuneration policy as profit based targets for the annual approved by shareholders at the 2015 annual general meeting, there is no bonus and has determined that the 1 Remuneration Framework 39% range of EPS and ROTIC targets for vote to approve the remuneration 2 Governance and reporting 32% policy this year.
There will be the the performance share awards should 3 Equity incentives 18% be unchanged from the prior year.
usualadvisory resolution to approve 4 Incentive targets 11% the Annual Report on Remuneration, As reported last year, the Committee which focuses on the remuneration outcomes for the year under isalso responsible for determining the fee level for the Chairman and in 2016, reviewand how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement we reviewed the fee level against market positions in peer companies.
The shortfall in the fee level in relation to our assessment of an appropriate The Committee is aware of the latest developments in the executive pay mid-market positioning, resulted in theCommittee determining that Paul arena, particularly those from institutional shareholders and we Walkers fee should be increased to a mid-market level in two stages.
initial increase to 210,000 occurred effective 1 April 2016 and we anticipate My colleagues on the Remuneration Committee and I hope that you will this could be increased further in one years time, coincident with the next support the resolution approving theRemuneration Report.
triennial policy review, subject to the Committee considering this to be appropriate in the circumstances.
Tony Rice Remuneration Committee Chairman 13 June 2017 89
