GOVERNANCE REPORT 47 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT AT OUR 2017 AGM WE WILL BE SEEKING SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL TO RENEW OUR DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY, AS THE CURRENT POLICY WHICH WAS APPROVED BY SHAREHOLDERS AT OUR 2014 AGM IS DUE TO EXPIRE.
Introduction Context in which our review I SHALL BE STEPPING In contemplation of this policy renewal, was undertaken DOWN FROM THE the Remuneration Committee AVEVA has delivered a solid conducted a full review of AVEVAs performance over the last two years, CHAIRMANSHIP OF approach to senior Executive achieving strong recurring revenue THE REMUNERATION remuneration.
The key findings of this and cash flows in the context of review were as follows: tough end market conditions.
There COMMITTEE AT THE The main pillars of the current has been a focus on both cost FORTHCOMING AGM, TO structure should be retained.
control and the implementation of AVEVAs past approach of offering a strong strategy to drive organic BE REPLACED BY JENNIFER long-term equity alignment with growth over the medium term.
ALLERTON, WHOM I WISH shareholders solely via regular EVERY SUCCESS IN HER annual awards under an LTIP that AVEVAs long-term potential cannot vest subject to a single EPS target be realised without the expertise and ROLE AS CHAIR OF THE could be improved as follows: commitment of our senior Executive COMMITTEE by continuing to grant standard team, now headed by James Kidd, LTIP awards each year, albeit with following Richard Longdons retirement vesting based upon the from the Board, with James supported achievement of a broader range by David Ward as our new CFO.
It is of targets than previously applied therefore important, and very much i. e. EPS, relative TSR and other in the long-term interests of our financial strategic targets, and shareholders, that we continue to offer by the facility to grant restricted remuneration packages that ensure the shares worth up to 35% of salary retention and incentivisation of our key each year, with a corresponding Executives, while also ensuring that we reduction in the value of LTIP keep the prudent approach we have awards granted.
adopted to such matters in the past.
The current annual bonus plan would benefit from a degree of simplification and could be made more reflective of best practice.
Certain minor changes should be made to ensure that our policy continues to reflect AVEVAs circumstances, is aligned to and supports achievement of the Companys strategic objectives and takes due account of developments in best practice that have occurred since our current policy was established in 2014.
The current shareholding guidelines of 200% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary for the CFO should be increased to 300% of salary, should restricted share plan awards be granted.
Further details of the changes we are proposing to make to our policy are set Philip Dayer Remuneration Committee Chairman out overleaf.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 48 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED On a more general level, when Benefits Flexibility will be reserved to employ conducting its review, the Committee No changes are proposed to our a broader range of financial and was also mindful of the continued underlying policy on benefits provision non-financial metrics in the bonus, focus on Executive remuneration from although, as with base salaries and to thereby reflecting common practice many quarters, including investors, the reflect best practice, going forward we and also ensuring that the bonus Press and Government.
In formulating will impose an overall cap on benefits, outturn is based on a more rounded our new policy, we have taken due in this case of 50,000 excluding assessment of overall performance.
account of all relevant developments pension-related benefits which will More specifically, for 2017 18: in market and best practice, while remain at 10% of salary for the A bonus of up to 105% of salary also ensuring that our policies and Executive Directors.
i. e. 84% of the maximum bonus practices are appropriate for AVEVA will be payable based on and achieve our underlying objective of Annual Bonus performance against a sliding aligning the long-term interests of our As noted above, our review of the scale of financial targets, namely Executive Directors and shareholders.
structure of the current annual bonus adjusted PBT 80% of salary and plan identified a number of features recurring revenue 25% of salary Summary of policy for 2017 onwards that were unusual, not reflective of both important financial KPIs.
The structure of our new Executive current market or best practice and A bonus of up to 20% of salary Directors Remuneration Policy the which also added to the complexity of i. e. 16% of the maximum bonus Policy is summarised below, with the the plan: will be payable by reference to key changes we are proposing to make The bonus is split between a core performance against quantifiable highlighted where relevant.
award of up to 100% of salary and personal strategic targets, details an outperformance award of a of performance against which will Base salaries further 25% of salary.
No changes are proposed to our Only one metric adjusted PBT is However, to ensure affordability, underlying approach to base currently used for the financial this element of the bonus will be salaries save that, to reflect best element, whereas it is now common reduced by 50% if a threshold practice, we will impose an overall for bonuses to operate with a wider level of PBT is not delivered.
cap on base salaries of 600,000, range of financial metrics to Again in the interests of albeit that this does not signify any encourage performance against a simplification, a straight 40% of any aspiration or intention to move broader range of KPIs.
bonus earned will be deferred into Executive Directors salaries to this Up to 10% of the financial element shares which vest as per the current level over the life of the policy.
of the bonus can be earned based policy in equal tranches over a solely on interim as opposed to full three-year deferral period.
In terms of actual base salaries of our year performance.
The existing malus and clawback Executive Directors, James Kidds The portion of bonus that is subject provisions will be retained, with the salary moved to 450,000 from to deferral into shares was structured Committee also reserving the right 400,000 in April 2017 as part of the in a complex manner, with the to adjust the bonus outturn based Committees approach to phasing proportion of deferral rising as the on a formulaic assessment of James salary up to the intended level size of the bonus outturn increases.
performance against the targets if over a period of time.
Note that this this outturn does not reflect is below Richard Longdons salary of To address these issues, the Executive shareholders expectations.
495,000 when he retired as CEO Directors ongoing bonus opportunity on 31 December 2016.
It is intended will be structured as follows: Long-term incentives to further increase James salary to To simplify the plan, the concept of How AVEVA can best structure its 500,000 for 2018 19, but only if James separate core and outperformance long-term equity-based pay policy has performance and the Companys awards will be removed and replaced been a key issue addressed by the underlying circumstances warrant.
by an overall maximum bonus Committee during the policy review Therefore, the Committee is taking opportunity of 125% of salary i. e. no process.
The Committee considers it a prudent approach to James salary increase on the current level.
vital that the interests of our senior progression by phasing the increases.
Significant outperformance will still management team are genuinely be required for a bonus approaching aligned with the long-term interests of David Wards base salary when he 125% of salary to be earned.
It is To further assist in simplification, also intended that this be increased on and to also bring the bonus plan In previous years, LTIPs were awarded a phased basis to a more appropriate more into line with typical practice, at up to 150% of salary and were based level, subject to his performance.
As the 10% interim bonus feature will solely on a single performance metric, such, Davids base salary was increased be removed.
Therefore, going namely EPS growth.
The new policy to 300,000 for 2017 18. forward, the Executive Directors achieves two main changes to the entire bonus opportunity will be structure of the LTIPs: first, to use a based on full year performance.
blend of metrics to assess performance under the LTIP to provide a more rounded assessment of performance: and secondly to introduce the facility to GOVERNANCE REPORT 49 replace a portion worth 75% of salary vesting, and vesting will only occur if vesting holding period.
In the event of a of the traditional LTIPs with restricted the Committee is satisfied that the change in control, awards vest subject share plan awards of a lower quantum Companys underlying financial to pro-rating unless the Committee worth 35% of salary.
For 2017 18 and performance warrants such determines otherwise.
Malus and onwards, it is currently envisaged that payment.
25% of this element for clawback provisions would apply to this awards will be structured as follows: each revenue target will vest at award as they will to the LTIP awards threshold levels of performance, and awards would only be made if the Traditional LTIPs with full vesting at maximum Committee is satisfied that the Regular annual LTIP awards continue achievement.
The revenue growth Executives performance is satisfactory.
to be granted, albeit at a reduced criteria are as follows: The Committee will withhold the award quantum of 75% of salary reflecting Half of this portion i. e. 12.5% of if there is no bonus achievement.
any grant of restricted share awards.
the total LTIP award will vest These awards vest subject to the based on performance against a When agreeing on the introduction of a satisfaction of challenging targets sliding scale of targets relating to modest restricted shares element to measured over a period of not less three-year growth in revenue from our remuneration policy, the than three years, as previously.
Revenue Committee concluded that: awards made in 2017 18, the targets growth from OOs is an important Restricted shares provide a will be structured as follows: strategic measure for the Group, genuinely meaningful and tangible 50% of the award will be subject as this will supplement the interest in shares.
to a sliding scale of adjusted EPS revenue streams already derived While a wholesale move to restricted growth targets, maintaining the from Engineering, Procurement & shares with a complete cessation of threshold and maximum targets of Construction contractors EPCs.
the LTIP was an alternative 5% and 15% per annum used for Therefore it is important that we approach, it remained appropriate last years awards but to reflect build these key relationships in for a significant portion of our internal and external forecasts order to protect and develop our Executive Directors equity pay to which suggest continuing potential existing business.
remain directly linked to the headwinds in AVEVAs end markets The remaining half of this portion achievement of challenging with the addition of an intervening i. e. 12.5% of the total LTIP award performance conditions, thereby target of 10%, so that this element will vest based on performance ensuring that the Executive Directors of the award vests as per the against a sliding scale of targets remain accountable to shareholders following table: relating to three-year revenue for their performance.
Introducing a restricted share plan Adjusted EPS growth Proportion of vesting Historically AVEVAs core strength addresses the continuing debate targets p. a.
% of total award has been in 3D engineering and surrounding overall levels of 5% 25% design software.
We wish to Executive remuneration head on, as 10% 80% continue to expand our product the impact of a grant of restricted 15% 100% portfolio so as to be able to offer shares at 35% of salary and a wider solution to customers.
corresponding reduction in LTIP 25% of the award will vest based on This is an important source of awards by 75% of salary would AVEVAs relative TSR performance growth because we have an reduce the maximum value of our against the FTSE 250 excluding installed base that is still Executive Directors long-term Investment Trusts, Financial Services relatively unpenetrated in terms incentive opportunity by 40% of and Real Estate sector companies.
of the wider product portfolio.
salary in face value terms.
Indeed, 25% of this element will vest at In addition, we can offer we have been particularly median, with full vesting at the prospects a more complete, conservative when determining the upper quartile.
integrated solution which helps LTIP to restricted shares exchange The remaining 25% of the award will drive efficiency.
rate by replacing a 75% of salary vest based on performance against a LTIP opportunity with a 35% of sliding scale of revenue growth Restricted Share Plan RSP salary restricted share award targets that have been developed to Restricted share plan awards can be i. e. lower than the generally specifically support AVEVAs growth granted over shares worth up to 35% of accepted 2:1 exchange rate.
strategy in certain parts of its salary i. e. replacing a portion of the While the introduction of restricted business.
Due to commercial traditional LTIP award that would shares could potentially be viewed sensitivity, the Committee does not otherwise have been granted, worth up as adding complexity to our pay believe it to be in shareholders to 75% of salary.
Should restricted plan arrangements, their introduction has interests to prospectively disclose awards be granted, the shareholding been balanced by a significant details of the revenue growth guidelines will be increased to 300% of simplification of the structure of our targets.
However, they will be annual salary for both CEO and CFO annual bonus plan which retains the objectively measurable over a previously 200% and 100%, large deferred share element three-year period, significant respectively.
As is the case with the further evidence of our commitment outperformance will be required to traditional LTIPs, restricted shares will to equity-based pay and the deliver full vesting, the targets will be be subject to a three-year vesting alignment with shareholders that disclosed retrospectively following period followed by a two-year postthis brings.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 50 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Restricted shares are a new Finally, our review noted that some The application of a two-year development for Executive amendments to the rules of the post-vesting holding period for remuneration and their introduction LTIP are required to reflect standard all awards.
has attracted mixed views amongst market practice.
For example, to The enhanced share ownership the investment community.
further strengthen alignment between guidelines of 300% of salary Accordingly, the Committee has Executives and shareholders, it is should restricted share plan awards decided to introduce restricted proposed that the LTIP be amended be made.
shares as a supplement to the LTIP to enable the Committee to award an rather than supplant it.
amount in cash or shares equal in This approach was subject to an The use of restricted shares for the value to any dividends that would have extensive prior consultation with our Executive Directors would align with been paid on vested shares from the major shareholders who I am pleased to the structure of equity incentives date of grant to the date on which the report were generally very supportive.
throughout the wider management award is released to the participant.
population, where restricted Certain other administrative Part A of this report contains full details shares have been used in tandem amendments to the rules of the LTIP of the new policy, in respect of which a with LTIP awards for some years are also proposed to: i formally binding shareholder resolution will be without any concerns arising reflect the introduction of the twotabled at the forthcoming AGM.
year post-vesting holding period that advisory resolution will also be tabled in has applied to recent awards granted connection with Part B of this report Therefore, by i the introduction of a to Executive Directors: ii ensure that which explains how the existing policy limited restricted share plan, ii the the plan operates fairly where there was implemented last year.
continuation of the LTIP, at greatly is a variation of share capital: and iii reduced levels when made in tandem bring within the definition of a change Finally, I shall be stepping down from with restricted shares, with targets that in control which could be a vesting the Chairmanship of the Remuneration encourage a reward for the delivery of event the situation whereby a third Committee at the forthcoming AGM, performance across a broader range of party that already has a controlling to be replaced by Jennifer Allerton, metrics, and iii the retention of the interest in AVEVA acquires the entire who has been a member of the deferred share element of the bonus, issued share capital of the Company.
Remuneration Committee since AVEVA will have a well thought-out and We will be seeking shareholder 2013.
I wish her every success in her rounded equity-based remuneration approval for these changes at the AGM.
role as Chair of the Committee.
programme that is tailored to our specific circumstances and which Summary Philip Dayer provides both internal and external I hope you find the contents of this Remuneration Committee Chairman alignment.
The enhanced share Report clear and are supportive of the ownership guidelines and use of approach we intend to adopt going two-year post-vesting holding periods forward.
We appreciate that the also clearly assist in this regard.
restricted share plan is, as practice currently stands, a relatively unusual Other Committee activities feature.
With this in mind, the during the year Committee has included a number of In addition to conducting the policy safeguards that ensure our approach review, the Committee undertook a would be fully aligned with the longnumber of other activities during and term interests of our shareholders: relating to 2016 17, including: The continuation of a significant Agreeing the packages of James share deferral element of the now Kidd, David Ward and Richard simplified bonus.
Longdon following their respective Limiting the grant of restricted changes in role.
shares to 35% of salary, with no Setting the 2016 17 bonus targets award made in the event of and determining the ultimate bonus underperformance as determined by outturn.
Full details can be found the annual bonus objectives.
The continuation of LTIP awards with Granting the 2016 LTIP awards, formal three-year targets linked further details of which can be found directly to our strategic objectives, on page 62. which will be lower than past Determining the vesting of the awards in quantum terms to 2014 LTIP.
Full details can be found reflect an accompanying grant on page 63. of restricted shares.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 51 PART A: THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out the information required by Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to Directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The table below summarises the Committees future policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 7 July 2017, will replace the existing policy for which shareholder approval was obtained at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, and will become binding immediately thereafter.
The material differences between the existing and proposed new policy which has also been designed with due account taken of the UK Corporate Governance Code are explained in the statement by the Committee Chairman and also in the table below.
It is currently intended that the policy will remain valid until the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that: the Executive Directors are provided with appropriate incentives to align them with the achievement of the Companys long-term strategy and the future creation of shareholder value: enhanced performance is encouraged: and, the Executive Directors are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Excessive risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
It also aims for a combination of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share-based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to deliver short and long-term goals.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be performance-related and should be delivered in shares to create alignment with shareholders interests.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is set in the context of the economic environment in which the Group operates, the outcome of the wider pay review for all Group employees, as well as the financial performance of the Group.
When determining remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration relevant external considerations as well as the remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
Remuneration commitments made which were consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time shall be honoured, even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Helps recruit and retain Base salary is normally reviewed annually In determining salary increases the None employees.
with changes effective from 1 April, although Committee generally considers the factors Reflects experience salaries may be reviewed more frequently or outlined in the operation column.
at different times of the year if the Salary increases will normally be in line with Committee determines this is appropriate.
the range of increases in the broader The Committee determines base salary workforce salary, although higher increases taking into account factors including, but not can be made in certain circumstances, for limited to: example: the individuals role, experience and an increase in the individuals scope of performance in achieving financial and responsibilities: non-financial goals within his areas of in the case of Executive Directors who responsibility.
are positioned on a lower initial salary salaries at other companies of a similar while they gain experience in the role: or size and complexity as well as global where the Committee considers that technology peers.
salary is behind appropriate market remuneration of different groups of positioning for a company of AVEVAs size employees within the Company.
However, no salary increase will be paid to an The Committee takes a phased approach to incumbent the effect of which is that the new salaries where appropriate.
increased salary is greater than 600,000.
Pensions Provide a competitive The CEO and CFO are members of the 10% of base salary pension contribution None retirement benefit in a AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan and or cash alternative.
way that is cost a defined contribution scheme.
effective to the The intention is that new appointments to Company.
the Board would also participate in the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan or receive an equivalent cash payment.
However, if appropriate the Committee may determine that alternative arrangements for the provision of retirement benefits may apply.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Board will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 52 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits Help recruit and retain The benefit policy is to provide an The cost of benefit provision will depend None employees appropriate level of benefit taking into on the cost to the Company of providing Provide a competitive account market practice at other companies individual items and the individuals range of valued of similar size and complexity and the level of circumstances.
benefits benefits provided for other employees in the However, the addition of further benefits Assist toward early Group.
than those already provided excluding return to work in the In line with benefits provided for other senior relocation recruitment-related benefits and event of illness or employees in the Group, Executive Directors participation in any all-employee share plan injury currently receive a mobility allowance or will not result in the aggregate benefit company car, a fuel allowance and an annual provision for any Executive Director allowance toward a range of benefits.
In the event that an Executive Director was required to re-locate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide additional benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances on a one-off or ongoing basis.
Benefits are reviewed by the Committee in the context of market practice from time to time and the Committee may introduce or remove particular benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
If the Company were to operate an all-employee share plan in the future, Executive Directors would be entitled to participate in the plan on the same terms as other employees.
Annual Incentive Scheme Incentivises and The Committee determines an individuals The maximum bonus opportunity is 125% of The performance measures rewards the maximum incentive opportunity taking into base salary.
applied may be financial or achievement of annual account the responsibilities of the role and non-financial and corporate, financial and strategic market practice at comparable companies.
divisional or individual and in business targets and Performance targets are set by the such proportions as the delivery of personal Committee on an annual basis and ordinarily Committee considers objectives.
Deferred element The Committee determines the level of Where a sliding scale of encourages long-term bonus paid taking into account performance targets is used, attaining the shareholding, helps against targets, the underlying performance threshold level of retention and of the business and Executive Directors performance for any discourages excessive performance during the year.
measure will not typically risk-taking.
40% of any bonus earned is deferred into produce a payout of more 1 shares under the Deferred Share Scheme, than 20% of the maximum 2 to which malus clawback provisions apply.
portion of overall annual bonus attributable to that measure, with a sliding scale to full payout for maximum performance.
However, the annual bonus plan remains a discretionary arrangement and the Committee retains a standard power to apply its judgement to adjust the outcome of the annual bonus plan for any performance measure should it consider that to be appropriate e. g. if the provisional bonus outturn does not in the Committees view reflect overall shareholder expectations.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 53 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures The AVEVA Group Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP Establishes a Awards vest based on performance over a Awards over shares worth no more than 75% The Committee may set motivational and period of three years and are subject to a of salary may be made each year assuming such performance  two-year holding period.
a grant of restricted shares in the same year.
conditions on awards as it orientated structure to Awards under the LTIP may be granted in the The maximum limit under the plan rules considers appropriate, incentivise Directors to form of conditional awards or nominal cost remains 250% of base salary.
whether financial or focus on the creation options or phantom options which will be non-financial and whether of shareholder value settled in cash.
corporate, divisional or aligned with the longer Dividends can accrue on shares during the individual.
term strategy for the vesting period.
The Committee determines targets each be over such periods as the year to ensure that targets are stretching and Committee selects at grant, represent value creation for shareholders which will not normally be while remaining motivational for less than, but may be longer management.
The Committee shall determine the extent Where a sliding scale of to which the awards will vest based on targets is used, attaining the performance against targets and taking into threshold level of consideration the wider performance of the performance for any Group.
measure will not typically 2 Malus clawback provisions apply.
produce a vesting of more than 25% of the maximum portion of overall award attributable to that measure, with a sliding scale to full payout for maximum performance.
The Committee may in its judgement adjust the vesting outturn should it consider that to be appropriate e. g. if the provisional vesting outturn does not in the Committees view reflect overall shareholder experience.
The AVEVA Restricted Share Plan RSP Ensures continual Awards normally vest over a period of three Awards over shares worth no more than None, although the alignment to years and are subject to a subsequent 35% of salary may be made each year.
Committee reserves the shareholders interests.
right to reduce or withhold Dividends can accrue on shares during the granting of restricted shares.
Policy table footnotes 1 Deferred awards will normally deliver the shares to participants in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years following the year in which an award is granted.
The Committee has discretion to determine an alternative vesting profile.
Dividends can accrue on deferred shares during the deferral period.
2 Awards granted under the Deferred Share Scheme and the Restricted Share Plan and, from 2012 onwards, under the LTIP, are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Those provisions may apply at the discretion of the Committee if accounts are corrected or published that indicate the relevant performance was materially worse than in the accounts used to assess vesting.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to malus or clawback.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 54 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Stating maximum amounts for the Directors Remuneration Policy The Regulations and related investor guidance encourages companies to disclose a cap within which each element of the Directors Remuneration Policy will operate.
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within the Directors Remuneration Policy, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative of any aspiration.
Travel and hospitality While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality, whether paid for by the Company or another, and business travel for Directors and in exceptional circumstances their families may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including the exercise of any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may operate the LTIP, the RSP, the annual bonus and the Deferred Share Scheme in accordance with their terms.
This includes: The selection of participants: The timing of grant of an award bonus opportunity: The size of an award bonus opportunity subject to the maximum limits set out in the policy table: The determination of performance against targets and resultant vesting bonus payouts: Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and The annual review of performance measures, weightings and targets from year-to-year.
In addition, while performance measures and targets used in the annual bonus plan and LTIP will generally remain unaltered, if events occur which, in the Committees opinion, would make a different or amended target a fairer measure of performance, the Committee can make such amendments to the targets as it considers appropriate.
Any use of these discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Remuneration Committee Report and may, where appropriate and practicable, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, for the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors prior to the adoption of this policy.
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Throughout the Group, remuneration is determined based on the same principles: that remuneration arrangements should be appropriate for the role without paying more than is necessary and that pay should be structured to incentivise individuals to deliver the objectives of their role.
AVEVA employs over 1,700 employees in over 30 locations with roles ranging from administrators to technical specialists and sales staff.
The structure and level of reward therefore differs from role to role depending on skills, experience, level of seniority and market practice for the role.
AVEVAs sales employees participate in commission plans that are designed to encourage the growth objectives of the Group.
Around 300 employees have annual bonus plans with 10 receiving a portion of bonus in shares which is deferred for up to three years: all other employees are eligible for a Group Discretionary Award or similar, subject primarily to the Groups financial performance and secondarily subject to individual performance.
The most senior management participate in the LTIP and RSP.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 55 Selection of performance measures The Committees guiding principle is that remuneration arrangements that operate throughout the Group should support the delivery of our long-term business strategy and therefore the creation of shareholder value.
Our key long-term strategic priority is to deliver strong but sustainable profit streams to support the delivery of this strategic priority.
The metrics used in our annual bonus arrangements and LTIP are chosen with this in mind, with the payment of bonuses and the vesting of long-term incentives subject to stretching targets established by the Committee at the beginning of each performance period.
These targets are set taking account of internal forecasts of performance over the performance period, the markets in which the Group operates, our long-term growth ambitions and the expectations of the investment community on the Groups future potential performance.
Remuneration Policy for new hires When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of sufficient calibre to lead the business.
At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The structure of the ongoing remuneration package would normally include the components set out in the policy table for Executive Directors.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights as a result of their appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account relevant factors, which may include the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining such buy-outs the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like for like basis to those forfeited unless not considered appropriate.
To facilitate awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
This provision permits the granting of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without seeking prior shareholder approval.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded excluding any buy-out awards is in accordance with limits on the Companys incentive plans as set out in the policy table.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to take-up their role, the Committee may provide reasonable assistance with relocation either via one-off or on-going payments or benefits taking into account the individuals circumstances and prevailing market practice.
In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
Executive Director service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office When determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director the Committee takes into account any contractual agreements including the provisions of any incentive arrangements, typical market practice and the performance and conduct of the individual.
The service contracts for current and non-current Executive Directors include the following terms: Name Date of Contract Date of Appointment Continuous Service Date Current Executive Directors James Kidd 17 February 2017 1 January 2017 5 January 2004 David Ward 19 July 2016 8 July 2016 17 January 2011 Non-current Executive Directors Richard Longdon 8 July 2010 16 August 1994 29 May 1984 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 56 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary.
Notice Period The CEOs service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on nine months notice.
The CFOs service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on six months notice.
The service agreements provide for a period of garden leave not exceeding six months.
The Committee will determine the appropriate notice period for any new Director taking into account the circumstances of the individual and market practice.
Any notice period will normally be no longer than 12 months.
The Committee reserves the right to provide a longer initial notice period of up to 24 months reducing to 12 months over the first 12 months of employment if it considers this to be appropriate.
Payment In the event of termination of contract without notice, the Executive Director shall be entitled to a payment in respect of salary for in lieu of notice the period of notice.
Such payment will normally be made in instalments and subject to mitigation but the Committee shall have discretion to make a single payment if this is considered appropriate.
Annual Bonus The Executive Director may, at the discretion of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Such annual bonus award will be determined by the Committee taking into account the circumstances for leaving, time in employment and performance.
Deferred Share Death: In the event of a participants death unvested awards shall vest.
Where awards are in the form of options they may be Scheme exercised for a period of up to 12 months from death.
Good leavers: At the discretion of the Committee, leaving by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, the Company for which the participant works leaving the Group or any other reasons determined by the Committee.
Awards shall continue in full and vest on the originally anticipated vesting dates.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that awards should vest when the participant ceases employment.
Awards in the form of options may be exercised in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Leavers in other circumstances: Awards will normally lapse.
Long Term Good leavers: At the discretion of the Committee, leaving as a result of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the Incentive Plan Company for which the participant works leaving the Group or any other reason.
Unvested awards shall continue in existence for the remainder of the performance period.
At the end of the performance period, the awards may be permitted to vest to the extent determined in accordance with the applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, then reduced to reflect the period that elapsed from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation as a proportion of the performance period.
Vested but unexercised options held by participants who leave employment other than due to gross misconduct may be exercised for a period following cessation of employment.
Restricted Good leavers: At the discretion of the Committee, leaving as a result of death, injury, disability, redundancy, the Company for Share Plan which the participant works leaving the Group or any other reason.
Unvested awards shall continue in existence for the remainder of the vesting period.
At the end of the vesting period, the awards may be permitted to vest, unless the Committee determines otherwise, on a pro rata basis to reflect the period that elapsed from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation as a proportion of the performance period.
Other payments An Executive Director who joined the Company before January 2008 and who is made redundant, may receive, in addition to a payment in lieu of notice, any statutory redundancy payment and any other payment to which he is entitled, a payment under the Companys enhanced redundancy policy.
This policy applies to all employees who joined the Company before January 2008.
Under the policy, an eligible person will receive a payment calculated by reference to their length of service and weekly pay by reference to gross annual salary as follows: 7 weeks pay for service of up to 6 years: plus 1.5 weeks pay for each completed year of service over 7 years up to 20 years: plus 2 weeks pay for each completed year of service over 20 years.
Under the Companys enhanced redundancy policy, eligible participants, including Executive Directors, may also receive a payment in lieu of a 90 day redundancy consultation period.
In the event of termination of an Executive Directors employment, a payment may be made in lieu of any accrued but untaken holiday.
The Remuneration Committee would be responsible for considering the circumstances of the early termination of an Executive Directors contract and determining whether in exceptional circumstances there should be compensation payments in excess of the Companys contractual obligations.
The Company has the power to enter into settlement agreements with Directors and to pay compensation to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of the termination of an Executive Director, the Company may make a contribution towards that individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 57 Change of control In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding-up of the Company and ultimately at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: 1.
Unvested awards under the Deferred Share Scheme will vest in full at the time of change of control.
Unvested awards granted under the 2014 LTIP rules will vest having regard to the extent to which performance conditions have been met and unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of the change of control or winding-up.
Unvested awards granted under the Restricted Share Plan shall vest in proportion to the full vesting period which has elapsed as at the date of change of control.
Employee context When setting Executive Directors pay, the Committee considers the remuneration arrangement of other senior managers and employees in the Group more generally to ensure that Executive remuneration arrangements are appropriate in this context.
AVEVA undertakes an annual salary review in April each year and uses this opportunity to reward strong performance and ensure salaries are in line with market rates.
It manages this in a competitive environment particularly in the fast-growing economic areas.
When determining salary increases for Executive Directors the Committee considers the outcome of the wider pay review for the Group.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding Executive Directors remuneration.
However, at regular intervals the Company conducts a survey of the views of employees in respect of their experience of working at AVEVA including their own reward.
Dialogue with shareholders The views of our shareholders on remuneration matters are important to the Committee and prior to making any material changes to remuneration arrangements the Committee consults with major shareholders and their representative bodies to obtain their views as was the case during the Policy renewal process.
The Company remains committed to engaging with shareholders in relation to remuneration issues.
External appointments The Companys policy is to permit an Executive Director to serve as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere when this does not conflict with the individuals duties to the Company, and where an Executive Director takes such a role they may be entitled to retain any fees which they earn from that appointment.
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The remuneration package at AVEVA is structured so that the package rewards performance over both the short and long term to ensure that reward is aligned with shareholder value creation.
The charts overleaf show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios: CEO CFO 125% 125% Maximum award opportunities Annual incentive scheme 110% 110% % of salary Long-term incentives LTI, assuming both an LTIP and restricted shares award at 75% and 35% of salary respectively Minimum No annual incentive payout 0% of salary No vesting under the LTIP, no award under the Restricted Share Plan RSP Mid performance cash only 30% of maximum annual incentive payout 38% of salary No vesting under the LTIP, no award under the RSP Mid performance cash and share options 50% of maximum annual incentive payout 63% of salary 25% vesting under the LTIP plus full award under the RSP Maximum performance 100% of maximum annual incentive payout 125% of salary 100% of maximum LTI vesting awards 110% of salary No share price growth has been assumed.
Potential benefits under all employee share schemes and dividend equivalents have not been included.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 58 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Performance-related rewards GBP Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives CEO James Kidd | | | Maximum 33% 36% 31% 1,572k Mid 50% | 27% | 23% | 1,038k | | Mid cash only 75% 25% 683k | Minimum 100% 514k 0k 500k 1,000k 1,500k 2,000k CFO David Ward | | | Maximum 33% 36% 31% 1,055k 50% | 27% | 23% | 698k Mid | | Mid cash only 76% 24% 462k | Minimum 100% 350k 0k 500k 1,000k 1,500k 2,000k Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Basic fees are subject to the aggregate limit in Non-Executive Directors do not receive incentive Directors are determined taking account of the the Companys Articles of Association.
individuals responsibilities, the expected time changes in this limit would be subject to Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive commitment for the role and prevalent market shareholder approval.
any benefits nor pension arrangements.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee for may be provided in the future if, in the view of the The Board is responsible for setting fees for the membership of the Board with additional fees Board or, in the case of the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors with the Remuneration being paid to Non-Executive Directors who hold Committee, this was considered appropriate.
Committee being responsible for setting fees the position of Committee Chairman to take Travel and other reasonable expenses including for the Chairman.
into account the additional responsibilities and fees incurred in obtaining professional advice in Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals, workload.
Additional fees may also be paid for the furtherance of their duties incurred in the usually on an annual basis.
other Board responsibilities or roles if this is course of performing their duties are reimbursed considered appropriate.
to Non-Executive Directors including any The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for associated tax liability.
The Non-Executive Directors have appointment letters, the terms of which recognise that their appointments are subject to the Companys Articles of Association and their services are at the direction of the shareholders.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors include the following terms: Expiry review date Notice period Name Date of appointment Date of contract of current contract months Philip Aiken 1 May 2012 1 May 2015 30 April 2018 3 Philip Dayer 7 January 2008 2 January 2014 14 July 2017 3 Jennifer Allerton 9 July 2013 1 July 2016 30 June 2019 3 Christopher Humphrey 8 July 2016 27 June 2016 7 July 2019 3 Ron Mobed 1 March 2017 1 March 2017 29 February 2020 3 All Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent intervals of no more than three years.
There are no predetermined special provisions for Non-Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any payments in lieu of notice.
The letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view from the Company Secretary upon request.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 59 PART B: THE IMPLEMENTATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board.
The members are Philip Dayer Chair, Jennifer Allerton, Christopher Humphrey and Ron Mobed.
All the Committee members are regarded by the Board as independent Non-Executive Directors.
Philip Dayer will be standing down at the AGM on 7 July and Jennifer Allerton will succeed him as the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Jennifer has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2013.
The role of the Committee is set out in its terms of reference which are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committees primary responsibility is to determine the remuneration package of both the Companys Executive Directors and its senior management within broad policies agreed with the Board.
FIT Remuneration Consultants FIT are the appointed advisors to the Committee.
They provide independent advice on comparator information and general remuneration.
Fees are charged on a time spent basis and the fees paid during the year to FIT in relation to the advice provided to the Committee were 61,019.
FIT provide no other services to the Company and so the Committee is content that their advice is objective and independent.
By invitation, James Kidd and Clare Bye EVP, Human Resources attend the meetings to provide company insight and advice to help the Committee consider appropriate remuneration.
Neither would be in attendance during any discussion of their own remuneration.
Six meetings were held during the year, which is higher than usual due to the revision of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page 38 of the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
The auditor has reported on certain sections of Part B and stated whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of Part B which have been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
Shareholder voting at the 2014 and 2016 AGM The table below shows the results of the vote on last years implementation vote and the most recent policy vote in 2014.
Votes for Percentage Votes against Percentage Votes withheld Directors Remuneration Policy AGM 2014 51,530,628 97.31% 1,422,153 2.69% 53,176 Directors Remuneration Report AGM 2016 54,373,504 97.79% 1,222,397 2.20% 11,938 Implementation of policy for 2017 18 Base salary Whilst salaries for the Executive Directors would normally be reviewed annually, the promotion of James Kidd to Deputy CEO formerly CFO in July 2016 and subsequently to CEO in January 2017 has resulted in increases to salary during the year.
Base salary with effect from James Kidd Increase David Ward Increase 1 April 2016 306,000 n a 8 July 2016 350,000 14.4% 230,000 n a 1 January 2017 400,000 14.3% 230,000 n a 1 April 2017 450,000 12.5% 300,000 30.0% Benefits In line with benefits provided for other senior employees, in 2017 18 Executive Directors will be provided with a company car allowance, a fuel allowance and a 600 annual allowance towards a range of flexible benefits.
Pension James Kidd and David Ward are members of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan a defined contribution scheme.
James Kidd receives a cash in lieu allowance in line with the detail in the policy table.
Their pension contributions will remain 10% of salary.
Annual Incentive Scheme For 2017 18, the maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the annual incentive will continue to be 125% of base salary although the out-performance element has been incorporated into the core scheme, albeit still requiring a stretch level of performance for full payout.
The half year element has been removed.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 60 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The financial performance targets are based on 1 Group adjusted profit before tax PBT targets, with a maximum weighting of 80% of salary, and 2 recurring revenue, with a maximum weighting of 25% of salary.
A further maximum of 20% of salary is available for the delivery of key individual performance objectives which are agreed with the Remuneration Committee at the start of each financial year, although this element will be capped at a maximum achievement of 10% should the Group adjusted PBT target not be met.
The Board believes that, given the annual incentive scheme rewards the achievement of the annual business plan, the targets are market sensitive and therefore should not be disclosed in advance, but ordinarily will be disclosed retrospectively.
As a simplification of the previous deferral calculation, 40% of any award made under the Annual Incentive Scheme, irrespective of the amount, will be payable in deferred shares as per the policy table.
Long-Term Incentives As described in the introduction to the Remuneration Committee report, it is currently proposed that the structure of the LTIs will change, as summarised below: Previous LTI arrangement New LTI arrangement Traditional LTIP: 150% of salary 75% of salary EPS growth 150% of salary 37.5% of salary Relative TSR performance nil 18.75% of salary Strategic objectives nil 18.75% of salary Restricted Share Plan nil 35% of salary Total Long-Term Incentives 150% of salary 110% of salary Further details of the performance conditions are as follows: The adjusted EPS growth targets are: Proportion of vesting Adjusted EPS growth targets p. a.
% of total award 5% 25% 10% 80% 15% 100% The relative TSR performance condition will measure AVEVA against the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, Financial Services and Real Estate sector companies.
25% of this element will vest at median, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
The strategic objectives will be a sliding scale of revenue growth targets.
25% of this element for each revenue target will vest at threshold levels of performance, with full vesting at maximum achievement.
The revenue growth criteria are as follows: Half of this portion will vest based on performance against a sliding scale of targets relating to three-year growth in revenue from Owner Operators OOs.
The remaining half of this portion will vest based on performance against a sliding scale of targets relating to three-year revenue growth in More than 3D.
Due to commercial sensitivity, the Committee does not believe it to be in shareholders interests to prospectively disclose details of the revenue growth targets.
However, they will be objectively measurable over a three-year period, significant outperformance will be required to deliver full vesting, the targets will be disclosed retrospectively following vesting, and vesting will only occur if the Committee is satisfied that the Companys underlying financial performance warrants such payment.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 61 Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2016 17 and 2015 16 financial years.
Salary Benefits Annual bonus LTIPs Pension Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Richard Longdon 2016 17 resigned 31 December 2016 371 24 395 Richard Longdon 2015 16 485 27 49 561 James Kidd 2016 17 as CEO appointed 1 January 2017 100 5 14 8 127 James Kidd 2016 17 as Deputy CEO appointed 8 July 2016 175 10 31 14 230 James Kidd 2016 17 as CFO 76 5 18 8 107 James Kidd 2015 16 as CFO 300 20 30 30 380 David Ward 2016 17 appointed 8 July 2016 168 15 31 17 231 David Ward 2015 16 Elements of single figure of remuneration Base salary The base salary for Richard Longdon was 495,000 2015 16 485,000 until he stepped down at the end of December 2016.
James Kidds salary in 2016 17 was 306,000 2015 16 300,000 until his promotion to Deputy CEO in July 2016 when it increased to 350,000 with a further increase to 400,000 when he became CEO in January 2017.
David Ward joined the Board as CFO on 8 July 2016, with a base salary of 230,000.
Benefits In 2016 17 and 2015 16 Executive Directors were provided with a company car or a car allowance, a fuel allowance and a 500 annual allowance towards a range of flexible benefits.
From 1 January 2017, the annual allowance for flexible benefits increased for all UK employees including for the Executive Directors to 600 per annum.
The Company contributed 10% of salary to the plan during 2016 17 for David Ward.
In line with policy a cash alternative was paid to James Kidd.
Annual incentive This reflects the total annual incentive paid and payable in 2017 based on performance in the year ended 31 March 2017.
This includes both the cash element of the bonus and the portion deferred into shares under the deferred share scheme.
The majority of the annual incentive is dependent on achieving Group adjusted profit before tax PBT performance targets.
10% of the core award was dependent on achieving the half year PBT target of 9.7m.
This was a binary target, paying out either nothing or in full.
The actual achievement was 9.1m, thereby resulting in no payout.
80% was dependent on full year adjusted PBT performance, with nothing paying out if achievement was below 54.15m, and fully paying out if achievement reached 62.70m.
This resulted in an achievement of 10.0% of the 80% PBT element, representing 8% of scheme value.
The Executive Directors were given individual performance objectives which comprise the remaining 10% of the annual incentive.
When determining the level of achievement for this portion of the bonus the Committee considered that James Kidd had met this element having made some key appointments to his senior management team and introduced major organisational structure changes, along with a new operating model and responsibility matrix to underpin these.
These changes will support the Company strategy in the future.
A clear business plan identifying the Companys strategic drivers and how these can be leveraged and measured has also been delivered.
The Committee considered David Wards targets as met as he has achieved specific tasks in the areas of risk management, internal audit, the adoption of IFRS 15 and AVEVAs commercial and contract function.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 62 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED As per the policy in force relating to 2017 annual incentive payments, for bonus achievements of less than 70% of the potential maximum core bonus, then 75% will be paid in cash and the remaining 25% will be paid in deferred shares, with no further performance conditions.
The amounts are summarised in the table below.
Cash bonus Deferred bonus Total bonus 2017 000 000 000 Richard Longdon James Kidd 47 16 63 David Ward 23 8 31 Long-term incentives This includes the LTIP awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2014 that were capable of vesting based on performance in the three-year period ended 31 March 2017.
These awards were subject to the delivery of EPS growth.
0% of awards vest for diluted adjusted EPS growth of less than 12% p. a. with 100% of awards vesting for diluted adjusted EPS growth of 20% p. a.
Average diluted EPS growth for the three-year performance period did not reach the minimum 12% p. a. growth needed and therefore 0% of the LTIP awards will vest for the period relating to 2016 17.
Other information in relation to 2016 17 Scheme interests awarded in the year audited The following tables set out details of the LTIP 2014 and deferred share awards made to the Executive Directors during 2016 17: 2014 LTIP Performance measures are based on diluted adjusted EPS growth.
25% vests for diluted adjusted EPS growth of 5% p. a. and 100% vests for diluted adjusted EPS growth of more than 15% p. a.
Linear interpolation applies between these points.
1 Executive Director Date of grant Basis of Award Face Value of Awards Performance Period Richard Longdon 150% of base salary 742,500 1 April 2016 31 March 2019 James Kidd 13 July 2016 150% of base salary 525,000 David Ward 120% of base salary 276,000 1 To determine the number of shares over which these awards were made a share price of 1,780p was used which was the average share price for the five days prior to the award.
Deferred Share Awards 2 Executive Director Date of grant Basis of Award Face Value of Awards Performance Period Richard Longdon 12,112 No performance period.
Awards Deferred element of vest in equal tranches on the date of 25 July 2016 2015 16 annual incentive announcement in May 2017, May 2018 James Kidd 7,488 and May 2019 2 This is calculated as the number of deferred shares issued in the year, multiplied by the closing share price the day before the preliminary announcement 23 May 2016 of 1,600p.
Shareholding guidelines and interests in shares audited Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding from vested Long-term incentive awards.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year end price, which was 1,950p at 31 March 2017.
Share Actual share ownership Shares owned outright ownership Have as a % of base salary at end of year guideline as a % guidelines of base salary been met?
GOVERNANCE REPORT 63 Outstanding scheme interests audited As at Lapsed Gain on 1 April Granted Exercised forfeited As at Exercise exercise 2016 during during during 31 March price of share 1 1 Number the year the year the year 2017 p options Richard Longdon LTIP 125,899 41,713 19,931 147,681 3.556 n a Deferred shares 4,479 757 3,131 2,105 nil 51,380 James Kidd LTIP 47,594 29,494 10,647 66,441 3.556 n a Deferred shares 2,764 468 1,905 1,327 nil 31,261 David Ward LTIP 10,154 15,505 2,365 23,294 3.556 n a 2 RSP 4,205 4,205 3.556 n a Deferred shares 494 369 125 nil 6,055 1 Market value at exercise date was 1,641p 2 David Ward was granted Restricted Share Plan RSP awards in 2015 when he was part of the senior management team, prior to his Executive Director appointment.
Summary of LTIP targets The following table sets out a summary of the performance targets attached to outstanding long-term incentive awards.
Performance measures are based on diluted adjusted EPS compound annual growth over a three-year period.
25% vests for diluted adjusted EPS growth of threshold, and 100% vests for diluted adjusted EPS growth of the maximum.
Options granted to Diluted adjusted Diluted adjusted 1 1 Executive Period of performance EPS growth EPS growth Date of award Directors measurement threshold maximum Achievement Target not met, 21 August 2013 30,578 2013 14 2015 16 14% 20% award did not vest Target not met, 0% of award 21 July 2014 49,429 2014 15 2016 17 12% 20% expected to vest Performance period 21 July 2015 61,615 2015 16 2017 18 12% 20% not yet completed Performance period 13 July 2016 86,712 2016 17 2018 19 5% 15% not yet completed 1 The definition of and figures used for diluted adjusted EPS are provided in note 13 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 89.
Dilution The number of shares which may be allocated on exercise of any options granted under any of the Companys share option schemes including employee schemes shall not, when aggregated with the number of shares which have been allocated in the previous ten years under these schemes, exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to that date.
Payments made to past Directors audited Richard Longdon received a salary of 31,250 per month for the period 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2017, and will continue to do so until 31 December 2017, whilst he is conducting the role of President.
Subject to completing his Presidential role, he shall be awarded a bonus equal in value to one-third of his calendar 2017 salary, or 125,000.
This payment is not performancerelated.
LTIP awards previously granted shall vest as per the scheme rules, as summarised on page 53.
No other payments were made during 2016 17.
Payments for loss of office audited Richard Longdon received 500 in consideration of restrictive covenants and warranties.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 64 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Total shareholder return v. techMARK All-Share Index 20092017 The graph below shows performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the techMARK All-Share Index.
Total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends reinvested compared against the techMARK All-Share Index, rebased to the start of the period.
Total shareholder return GBP AVV TSR FTSE techMARK All-Share TSR 500 400 300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Directors consider the techMARK All-Share Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index includes AVEVA Group plc.
CEO single figure eight year history The table below shows the eight year history of the CEO single figure of total remuneration: 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Richard Longdon retired 31 December 2016 818 695 1,003 963 1,163 517 561 395 James Kidd appointed 1 January 2017 127 CEO single figure of total remuneration 1 000 818 695 1,003 963 1,163 517 561 522 Annual incentive payout % of maximum 100% 100% 68% 94% 50% 8% 8% 18% LTIP payout % of maximum 100% 0% 100% 33% 94% 0% 0% 0% 1 Richard Longdon retired from the Board on 31 December 2016 and was succeeded as CEO by James Kidd on 1 January 2017.
The CEO single figure of total remuneration represents the total remuneration received by Richard for the first nine months of the year and similarly for James for the last three months of the year.
Change in remuneration of the CEO The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive for the Group CEO and two selected sub-sets of employees including only those employees who were employed at the start of the 2015 16 financial year through to the end of the 2016 17 financial year.
The UK Group has been chosen because AVEVA is headquartered and employs around one-quarter of its employees in the UK.
Typical salary inflation in some other AVEVA locations is materially higher than the UK, which would distort the comparison.
Executive UK % change 2015 16 to 2016 17 CEO team employees Base Salary 2.8 % 1.3% 2.0% Benefits 0.1% 0.1% 1.0% Annual Bonus 80.0% 80.0% 80.0% GOVERNANCE REPORT 65 Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below illustrates the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees in the Group compared to adjusted profit before tax and distributions to shareholders.
The Committee determined adjusted profit before tax was an appropriate measure for this chart as it is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is the primary measure for the annual incentive scheme.
Relative importance of spend on pay GBP 2016 17 2015 16 Employee 98.2 staff costs | 107.0 9.0% Adjusted profit 51.2 before tax | 55.0 7.4% Dividends 1 19.8 paid | 27.5 38.7% 1 Dividends paid during the year represent the final dividend from the previous year plus the interim dividend from the reported year.
AVEVA rebalanced the weighting of its interim and final dividend in 2016 17, increasing the proportion of the interim dividend by 117% over the prior year.
Outside appointments The Board believes that accepting Non-Executive appointments with other companies enhances the experience of Executive Directors and therefore they are entitled to accept appointments outside of the Company provided that Board approval is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
Whether or not the Director concerned is permitted to retain their fees is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Neither James nor David currently hold any outside appointments.
Total pension entitlements Richard Longdon is a deferred member of the CADCentre Pension Scheme, a defined benefit pension scheme for which AVEVA Solutions Ltd is the principal employer, and has accrued the maximum benefit he is entitled to.
The plan is a contributory, funded, occupational scheme registered with HM Revenue and Customs HMRC and, since 1 October 2004, Career Average Revalued Earning benefits apply.
He is entitled to a pension on normal retirement, or on retirement due to ill health, equivalent to two-thirds of his pensionable salary provided he has completed or would have completed in the case of ill health 25 years service.
A lower pension is payable on earlier retirement after the age of 55 by agreement with the Company and subject to HMRC guidelines.
Pensions are payable to dependants on his death in retirement and a lump sum is payable if death occurs in service.
Richards accrued entitlements under the pension scheme are as follows: Increase in accrued Transfer value of Accumulated accrued Accumulated accrued Increase in pension during the year, increase, after removing pension at pension at accrued pension after removing the the effects of inflation, less 31 December 2016 31 March 2016 during year effects of inflation Directors contributions Richard Longdon 165,810 166,354 544 The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually, based on service to the end of the year.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the transfer value basis adopted by the Trustee Board.
Movement, 31 December 31 March less Directors 2016 2016 contributions Richard Longdon 5,037,614 4,543,317 494,297 James Kidd and David Ward are both members of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan.
Both are subject to a cap on pension contributions of 10,000 per annum.
David was able to utilise unused carryover from previous years, whereas James has no carryover available and thus elected to receive a cash alternative, as allowed under the policy.
During 2016 17 in their capacity as Directors, David received employer contributions of 16,794 2015 16 nil and James received cash in lieu of contributions of 30,300 2015 16 30,000.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 66 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors Implementation of remuneration policy for NEDs in 2017 As noted in the Policy Report, the fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are determined taking account of the individuals responsibilities, time devoted to the role and prevalent market rates.
2016 17 fees 2015 16 fees Role Chairman 187,000 170,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 49,000 48,000 Committee Chairman fee Audit and Remuneration 11,200 11,000 Senior Independent Director 11,300 11,000 Fees for 2017 18 shall increase by the same rate as the salary increase for UK employees, which was 2.5% 2016 17 2.0%.
Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Non-Executive Directors.
2016 17 fees 2015 16 fees Philip Aiken Chairman 187,000 170,000 Jennifer Allerton 49,000 48,000 Jonathan Brooks resigned 8 November 2016 36,506 59,000 Philip Dayer 71,500 70,000 Christopher Humphrey appointed 8 July 2016 43,834 Ron Mobed appointed 1 March 2017 4,083 NEDs interests in shares audited The table below shows the interests in AVEVA ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons.
Shares owned Shares owned outright at outright at 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Philip Aiken Chairman 1,537 1,537 Jennifer Allerton 6,000 3,000 Philip Dayer 7,696 7,696 Christopher Humphrey 3,000 Ron Mobed There have been no changes to Directors holdings between the year end date and the publication of this report.
This Remuneration Committee report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Philip Dayer Remuneration Committee Chairman 23 May 2017
