Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 67 Remuneration Directors remuneration Letter from the Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chairman Committee Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I present our 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
This report sets out our proposed policy which, if approved The Committee continued to ensure that at our 2017 AGM, will take effect immediately from the date of decisions made during the year reflected our this meeting.
The report also sets out how our current policy was implemented during the year.
principles, company performance and external Current policy a successful implementation considerations.
In addition, the Committee Our current policy has received continued support since its approval adopted an early timetable of shareholder at the 2014 AGM, with the Annual Report on Remuneration receiving a vote in favour of 97% in each of the last two years.
engagement in respect of the policy review.
The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the current policy Chairman reflects a commitment to our principles of: Valerie Gooding Independent Non-Executive Director ensuring our remuneration policy, and the manner in which it is implemented, drives the behaviours that support our strategy and Members Dr Mathias Dpfner business objectives: Renee James Samuel Jonah maintaining a pay for performance approach to remuneration which ensures our incentive plans only deliver significant rewards Key objective: if and when they are justified by business performance: To assess and make recommendations to the Board on the policies aligning the interests of our senior management team with those for executive remuneration and reward packages for the individual of shareholders by developing an approach to share ownership that Executive Directors.
helps to maintain commitment over the long term: and Responsibilities: offering competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits.
determining, on behalf of the Board, the policy on the It is both due to this continued support and its ongoing appropriateness remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Executive that the Committee maintained the current policy for its full three Directors and the senior management team: year life.
determining the total remuneration packages for these individuals Aligning remuneration arrangements with strategic priorities including any compensation on termination of office: The importance of aligning our remuneration arrangements operating within recognised principles of good governance: and with our strategic priorities continued to play a crucial role in the Committees decision-making during the year.
preparing an Annual Report on Directors remuneration.
In terms of financial measures, cash flow continues to remain the key The Committee met five times during the year and each meeting financial metric in the industry in which we operate this is currently had full attendance.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reflected through the presence of this measure in both our shortavailable on vodafone.
term and long-term incentive plan.
As we work towards our vision a converged communications leader a Gigabit Vodafone for the Gigabit Society ensuring that our business has the required resources to invest in these new opportunities remains critical to future success.
Through the proposed change to the structure of our long-term incentive, as outlined further below, we therefore seek to ensure the weighting of this metric is further enhanced.
From a strategic perspective we aim to deliver superior returns to our shareholders by differentiating our business through the provision of superior customer service.
This strategic vision continues to influence our business both internally and externally as we seek to build on the early successes generated through our Customer eXperience eXcellence programme.
As such, the 40% weighting on customer appreciation KPIs that was used in 2017 will continue to apply during Contents of the Remuneration Report 2018.
This will ensure that a significant part of our executives short-term reward is linked to how our customers judge our performance.
Remuneration Policy Page 71 The remuneration policy table Page 72 It is the Committees view that our reward arrangements best support Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Page 76 our business effectiveness by only delivering above target payouts Annual Report on Remuneration Page 77 when this is justified through company performance.
This is reflected Remuneration Committee Page 77 through the stretching and robust variable incentive target-setting 2017 remuneration Page 78 process undertaken by the Committee on an annual basis which has 2018 remuneration Page 84 delivered variable levels of payout.
Further remuneration information Page 85 68 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued During this years shareholder consultation a number of investors During the year, service revenue and adjusted EBITDA performance acknowledged that the Committee has a track record of setting were below target whilst performance under the adjusted free cash stretching targets and ensuring that payments are in line with flow and customer appreciation KPIs measures were in line with target.
performance the average payout over the last three years, including The combined performance under all of these measures during the year the year under review, for the GSTIP and GLTI has been 54% and 22% resulted in an overall payout of 47.3% of maximum.
This is a principle that will continue to apply As in previous years the annual bonus targets for the year under review in 2018 and beyond.
are disclosed in our Annual Report on Remuneration.
Following on from Finally, our effectiveness as a business is built on long-term sustainable our decision to improve disclosure last year by detailing the full target performance.
In an industry with an ever-changing technological ranges used under the financial measures, the Committee has again landscape it is vital that our reward arrangements encourage long-term sought to further improve transparency by disclosing additional detail strategic thinking and growth, rather than short-term profit-taking.
on performance against the customer appreciation KPIs metrics.
It is for this reason that the majority of our proposed reward policy The final outcome under this strategic element is based on a weighted continues to be weighted towards the Global Long Term Incentive Plan average of performance across all of our markets utilising a range whilst TSR remains a key performance measure in ensuring our final of metrics.
Despite the difficulty in condensing such a variety of outputs, payouts accurately reflect the shareholder experience over this period.
it is recognised that greater insight into outcomes under this measure The year ahead is desired by shareholders.
The Committee has therefore sought In addition to the policy changes outlined below, the 2018 annual bonus to provide details in a manner which is both succinct and useful to our will see adjusted EBITDA replaced with adjusted EBIT as one of the three stakeholders.
Further details are provided on pages 78 and 79. financial performance conditions to reflect an increased focus on both The 2015 Global Long-Term Incentive award was subject to free cash capital discipline and expenditure.
flow and TSR performance as measured over a three year period Such a change is within the terms of the current policy and as such ending 31 March 2017.
The free cash flow measure finished just above no wording changes to the GSTIP section of the Policy Report are target performance during this period whilst TSR performance was proposed.
Annual bonus weightings will also remain unchanged below the median of TSR comparator group resulting in no uplift being for 2018. applied to the free cash flow outcome.
Overall payout for the award was therefore 43.5% of maximum.
In respect of long-term incentives the revised GLTI structure, subject to approval at our 2017 AGM, will be used for the 2018 GLTI awards Shareholder consultation constructive, timely engagement to the Executive Directors which will be awarded in the 2017 Notwithstanding the support received for the current arrangements, calendar year.
the Committee recognises that the regulatory requirement to resubmit the Policy Report presents a natural point at which to incorporate any Full details of the remuneration arrangements for our executive shareholder feedback and appropriate best practice features that have directors for the year ahead are outlined on pages 84 and 85 of the emerged during the last three years.
This is why the Committee committed to an early timetable of Remuneration outcomes performance in 2017 shareholder engagement in respect of the policy review.
In doing so, Business performance during the year reflected the implementation theCommittee sought to ensure that shareholder views and comments of a number of key strategic programmes across our markets, including were fully considered as part of the review, with enough time scheduled the capital investment made under Project Spring which has provided to allow for a two way dialogue.
the platform necessary to work towards our vision of being a converged communications leader.
Other core programmes in operation during I can report that the consultation facilitated a high level of response from the year included our Fit for Growth strategy which aims to reduce investors, which allowed the Committee to clearly explain the proposals costs and make the organisation more effective yielding both and ensure that all feedback was properly considered across a number environmental and financial benefits for the business.
The business also of scheduled Committee meetings.
remained focused on our Customer eXperience eXcellence programme Proposed policy evolution, not revolution during the year which aims to continually improve our customer service The proposed changes reflected in our Policy Report, and outlined to ensure full advantage can be taken of the improvements we are in detail on the summary page at the end of this letter, do not seek making to our network.
a complete overhaul of our current arrangements.
Instead, the changes Remuneration outcomes for performance in 2017 reflect the progress reflect our stakeholders wishes for the simplification of the current made across all of these fronts whilst also reflecting the fact that arrangements in a manner which retains the core qualities and in order to achieve our vision there remains work to be done.
principles that have underpinned our reward strategy in recent years.
Annual bonus performance conditions for the year under review This is exemplified through the proposed simplification of the GLTI plan remained unchanged from 2016, with 60% of opportunity via the removal of the co-investment element and the simplification based on financial measures and 40% on strategic measures.
of the interplay of performance conditions under the payout matrix.
Financial measures comprised service revenue, adjusted EBITDA and Both of these proposed changes tackle features of the current adjusted free cash flow all equally weighted whilst the strategic arrangements which a number of shareholders have flagged as being element was based on customer appreciation KPIs.
overly complex, and are coupled with other best practice changes including an increase in shareholding guidelines and the introduction of clawback.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 69 Improving how we encourage share ownership Pay in the wider context Importantly, in proposing to remove the co-investment element The Committee is fully aware of the attention that executive pay as a way of simplifying the GLTI, the Committee has also sought has received in the wider market in recent years.
The importance to ensure that the revised arrangements continue to replicate the share of ensuring that pay remains appropriate in light of individual ownership effect of co-investment by re-establishing market leading and business performance continues to remain central to the shareholding guidelines 500% of salary for the Chief Executive and Committees decision-making.
400% of salary for other Executive Directors.
This ensures that the As in previous years the Committee will continue to ensure that revised arrangements provide a streamlined GLTI whilst also supporting incentive payouts are not excessive and any salary increases remain clear and stretching ownership requirements.
During the year the Committee agreed a salary increase In order to reflect the importance of shareholding guidelines both of 1.5% for the Chief Financial Officer effective 1 July 2018, however during employment but also in the period post-employment, the Chief Executives salary will, at his request, remain unchanged.
the increased guidelines will apply until all long-term incentives have This will be the third year in a row, and the fifth time in the last six years, vested.
This will ensure that our executives continue to share in the in which the Chief Executives salary will not have increased.
The salary shareholder experience of any decisions made before departure but review was taken in the context of a budgeted increase of 1.5% in the which may have implications after departure.
If this requirement is not UK for this year, with the wider Executive Committee being maintained met, then the Committee will have the ability to lapse any unvested in line with local market budgets as explained later in this report.
The Committee recognises the importance of engagement with both Furthermore, underpinning this change in how we encourage share internal and external stakeholders and will continue to ensure that such ownership is an expectation that executives who have not met their engagement plays a central role in future remuneration developments.
new, higher shareholding guideline will increase their holding by 100% At an employee level our people survey remains a key tool in this of salary each year until this is reached.
If this expectation is not met, respect, with the high participation and engagement rate facilitating the Committee will have the discretion to reduce an individuals next direct communication between the business and our colleagues target GLTI grant by up to 100% of salary.
As Chairman of the Committee Conclusion I would like to reassure shareholders that were these circumstances I would like to sign-off this letter by thanking our shareholders for the to apply, such discretion will be used in all but exceptional cases.
continued engagement and support that has been demonstrated Simplifying the payout matrix during the year.
In a climate where executive remuneration and It was made clear during both this and previous consultations that our the processes governing these arrangements is increasingly met shareholders would prefer to see the current payout matrix replaced with scepticism, the Committee welcomed the way shareholders with a simpler additive structure where all performance metrics are engaged actively and constructively during this years consultation.
assessed independently of each other.
The Committee has listened The Committee values the strong relationships that have been built with to shareholders on this point and recognises that the more traditional stakeholders through years of active and timely engagement and will schedule allows for a clearer and simpler communication of both continue to work hard to ensure this remains the case in future years.
Such a change is therefore reflected The Policy Report presented on the following pages is the result in the revised Policy Report.
of an early, informative and engaging consultation and, as Chairman The revised payout matrix has also been designed to ensure that the of the Committee, I will endeavour to ensure this appreciation of the GLTI plan is more weighted towards adjusted FCF performance a key importance of stakeholder engagement continues to be a pillar strategic measure for our business.
This is reflected through a proposed of future Committee activity.
2 3 weighting to this measure with the other 1 3 weighted towards the same relative TSR measure used under the current arrangements.
Also in line with shareholder preferences, a further proposed revision is the reduction in the size of awards payable at threshold for all Valerie Gooding Executive Directors.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Other matters considered 16 May 2017 In order to align with market practice a key change proposed by the Committee is the introduction of clawback to all incentive plans.
These arrangements will complement the malus arrangements already in place and deliver on the Committees promise to introduce clawback at the next point at which the Policy Report was up for approval.
A potential change that was considered during the consultation was the introduction of annual bonus deferral.
Following consultation with shareholders, the Committee determined that the objectives of bonus deferral were already being met through other features of the proposed arrangements namely the heavy weighting of packages towards our long-term incentive which already has deferral built in, and the proposed increase in shareholding guidelines.
The Committee will however continue to monitor this area of practice and ensure that shareholders remain satisfied with the levels of deferral and share ownership built into the arrangements elsewhere.
70 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Summary of proposed changes to the Policy Report In line with the rationale outlined in the Letter from the Reduce threshold opportunity from 118.75% to 103.5% of salary Remuneration Committee Chairman, it is proposed to: for the Chief Executive and from 105% to 94.5% of salary for other Executive Directors.
This equates to reducing threshold vesting Shareholding guidelines from 20% to 18% of maximum opportunity.
Increase shareholding guidelines to 500% of salary for the Chief As a result of rebalancing the vesting schedule, maximum Executive and 400% of salary for other Executive Directors.
opportunity for the Chief Executive will also be reduced from Introduce discretion to reduce long-term incentive grant levels 593.75% to 575% of salary and target opportunity will be reduced for Directors who have not met their guideline nor increased their from 237.5% to 230% of salary.
This is to ensure payout curves shareholding by 100% of salary during the year.
remain the same across all participants.
Introduce a post-employment condition whereby Directors must Introduction of clawback continue to meet their guideline until all long-term incentives have vested.
If this requirement is not met, then any unvested Trigger events will constitute material misstatement GLTIawards will normally be forfeited.
of performance, material miscalculation of performance condition outcomes and gross misconduct.
Global Long-Term Incentive Plan The provisions will apply to all future GLTI awards and bonus Remove the co-investment element of the GLTI to simplify the payments, and the application period for the provisions will plan structure.
be up to three years after the payment of any bonus award, and up to two years after the vesting of any GLTI.
Replace the current vesting matrix with a simplified model whereby both measures operate independently.
Rebalance the weightings of the performance measures to 2 3 in favour of adjusted FCF and 1 3 in favour of relative TSR.
Total target remuneration at a glance 2017 compared to 2018 The below table illustrates the arrangements in place during the year under review 2017 compared to those which, subject to the approval of our proposed remuneration policy, will be in place for 2018.
Benefits Travel related benefits and private medical cover.
Travel related benefits and private medical cover.
Pension Pension contribution of 24% of salary for all Executive Pension contribution of 24% of salary for all Executive Directors.
GSTIP Opportunity % of salary : Opportunity % of salary : Target: 100% Target: 100% Maximum: 200% Maximum: 200% Measures: Measures: Service revenue 20%, adjusted EBITDA 20%, adjusted Service revenue 20%, adjusted EBIT 20%, adjusted FCF FCF 20%, and customer appreciation KPIs 40%.
GLTI Opportunity % of salary : Opportunity % of salary : Target: Target: Chief Executive 237.5% Chief Executive 230% Other Executive Directors 210% Other Executive Directors 210% Maximum: Maximum: Chief Executive 594% Chief Executive 575% Other Executive Directors 525% Other Executive Directors 525% Measures: Measures: Adjusted free cash flow and TSR vesting matrix.
Adjusted free cash flow 2 3 of total award and TSR 1 3 of total award.
Total target Chief Executive 5.4m Chief Executive 5.2m remuneration Chief Financial Officer 3.2m Chief Financial Officer 3.2m Shareholding Chief Executive 400% of salary Chief Executive 500% of salary guidelines Chief Financial Officer 300% of salary Chief Financial Officer 400% of salary Include post-employment holding requirements.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 71 Remuneration Policy In this forward-looking section we describe our remuneration policy for the Board.
This includes our considerations when determining policy, a description of the elements of the reward package, including an indication of the potential future value of this package for each of the Executive Directors, and the policy applied to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
We will be seeking shareholder approval for our Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM and we intend to implement at that point.
A summary and explanation of the proposed changes to the current remuneration policy is provided on pages 67 to 70.
Subject to approval, we will review our policy each year to ensure that it continues to support our company strategy and if we feel it is necessary to make a change to our policy within the next three years, we will seek shareholder approval.
Considerations when determining remuneration policy Our remuneration principles which are outlined on page 67 are the context for our policy.
Our principal consideration when determining remuneration policy is to ensure that it supports our company strategy and business objectives.
The views of our shareholders are also taken into account when determining executive pay.
In advance of asking for approval for the remuneration policy we have consulted with our major shareholders.
We invited our top 20 shareholders and a number of key governance stakeholders to comment on remuneration at Vodafone and to provide feedback on the proposed changes to the current policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM.
A number of meetings between shareholders and the Remuneration Committee Chairman took place during this consultation period.
Further details of this consultation are provided on pages 67 to 69 whilst a summary of the proposed changes to our current policy, which are incorporated in this revised Remuneration Policy section, is provided on page 70.
Listening to and consulting with our employees is very important.
This can take different forms in different markets but always includes our annual people survey which attracts very high levels of participation and engagement.
We do not consult directly with employees on the executive remuneration policy nor is any fixed remuneration comparison measurement used.
However, when determining the policy for Executive Directors, we have been mindful of the pay and employment conditions of employees in Vodafone Group as a whole, with particular reference to the market in which the executive is based.
Further information on our remuneration policy for other employees is given on page 74.
Performance measures and targets Our Company strategy and business objectives are the primary consideration when we are selecting performance measures for our incentive plans.
The targets within our incentive plans that are related to internal financial measures such as revenue, profit and cash flow are typically determined based on our budgets.
Targets for strategic and external measures such as customer appreciation KPIs and total shareholder return TSR are set based on company objectives and in light of the competitive marketplace.
The threshold and maximum levels of performance are set to reflect minimum acceptable levels at threshold and very stretching levels at maximum.
As in previous Remuneration Reports we will disclose the details of our performance targets for our short and long-term incentive plans.
However, our annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore we will only disclose our targets in the Remuneration Report following the completion of the financial year.
We will disclose the targets for each long-term award in the Remuneration Report for the financial year preceding thestart of the performance period.
At the end of each performance period we review performance against the targets, using judgement to account for items such as but not limited to mergers, acquisitions, disposals, foreign exchange rate movements, changes in accounting treatment, material one-off tax settlements etc.
The application of judgement is important to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee reviews the incentive plan results before any payments are made to executives or any shares vest and has full discretion to adjust the final payment or vesting downwards if they believe circumstances warrant it.
In particular, the Committee has the discretion to use either malus or clawback as it sees appropriate.
In the case of malus, the award may lapse wholly or in part, may vest to a lesser extent than it would otherwise have vested or vesting may be delayed.
In the case of clawback, the Committee may recover bonus amounts that have been paid up to three years after the relevant payment date, or recover share awards that have vested up to two years after the relevant vesting date.
The key trigger events for the use of the clawback arrangements include material misstatement of performance, material miscalculation of performance condition outcomes, and gross misconduct.
Subject to approval of this Remuneration Policy, the clawback arrangements will be applicable to all future bonus amounts paid, or share awards granted, following the 2017 AGM.
72 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Remuneration Policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To attract and retain the best talent.
Salaries are usually reviewed annually and fixed for 12months Average salary increases for existing Executive Committee members including Executive None.
Decision is influenced by: Directors will not normally exceed average increases for employees in other appropriate parts of the Group.
Increases above this level may be made in specific situations.
These situations level of skill, experience and scope of responsibilities couldinclude but are not limited to internal promotions, changes to role, material changes ofindividual: to the business and exceptional company performance.
business performance, scarcity of talent, economic climate and market conditions: increases elsewhere within the Group: and external comparator groups which are used for reference purposes only made up of companies ofsimilar size and complexity to Vodafone.
Pension To remain competitive within the marketplace.
Executive Directors may choose to participate in the defined The pension contribution or cash payment is equal to 24% of annual gross salary.
contribution pension scheme or to receive a cash allowance inlieu of pension.
Benefits To aid retention and remain competitive within Travel related benefits.
This may include but is not limited to Benefits will be provided in line with appropriate levels indicated by local market practice in the None.
company car or cash allowance, fuel and access to a driver country of employment.
We expect to maintain benefits at the current level but the value of benefit may fluctuate Private medical, death and disability insurance and annual depending on, amongst other things, personal situation, insurance premiums and other health checks.
In the event that we ask an individual to relocate we would offer them support in line with Vodafones relocation or international assignment policies.
This may cover but is not limited to relocation, cost of living allowance, housing, home leave, education support, tax equalisation and advice.
Other benefits are also offered in line with the benefits offered to other employees for example, our all-employee share plan, mobile phone discounts, maternity paternity benefits, sick leave, paid holiday, etc.
Annual Bonus To drive behaviour and communicate the key Bonus levels and the appropriateness of measures and weightings Bonuses can range from 0200% of base salary, with 100% paidfor on-target performance.
Performance over each financial year Global Shortpriorities for the year.
are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support Maximum is only paid out for exceptional performance.
is measured against stretching targets set Term Incentive our strategy.
at the beginning of the year.
To motivate employees and incentivise Plan GSTIP delivery of performance over the one year Performance over the financial year is measured against The performance measures normally operating cycle.
stretching financial and non-financial performance targets set comprise of a mix of financial and strategic at the start of the financial year.
Financial measures may The financial metrics are designed to both include but are not limited to profit, drive our growth strategies whilst also focusing The annual bonus is usually paid in cash in June each year for revenue and cash flow with a weighting on improving operating efficiencies.
The strategic performance over the previous year.
Strategic measures measures aim to ensure a great customer may include but are not limited to experience remains at the heart of what we do.
customer appreciation KPIs such as net promoter score and brand consideration.
Long-Term To motivate and incentivise delivery ofsustained Award levels and the framework for determining vesting The target award level is 230% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 210% for other Performance is measured against Incentive Global performance over the long term.
are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support Executive Directors.
stretching targets set at the beginning Long-Term our strategy.
To support and encourage greater shareholder Minimum vesting is 0% of the target award level, threshold vesting is 45% of the target award Incentive Plan alignment through a high level ofpersonal Long-term incentive awards consist of performance shares which level, and maximum vesting is 250% of the target award level.
Vesting is determined based on the GLTI share ownership.
following measures: Maximum long-term incentive face value at award of 575% of base salary for the Chief Executive The use of free cash flow as the principal All awards vest not less than three years after the award based and 525% for others Executive Directors.
adjusted free cash flow as our performance measure ensures we apply prudent on Group operational and external performance.
operational performance measure: and The Committee has the discretion to reduce long-term incentive grant levels for directors cash management and rigorous capital discipline Dividend equivalents are paid in cash after the vestingdate.
who have neither met their shareholding guideline nor increased their shareholding by 100% relative TSR against a peer group to our investment decisions, whilst the use of TSR of salary during the year.
of companies as our external along with a performance period of not less than performance measure.
three years means that we are focused on the The awards that vest accrue cash dividend equivalents over the three year vesting period.
long-term interests of our shareholders.
Measures will normally be weighted Awards vest to the extent performance conditions are satisfied.
There is a mandatory holding 2 3 to adjusted free cash flow and 1 3 period where 50% of the post-tax shares are released after vesting, a further 25% after the first to relative TSR.
anniversary of vesting, and the remaining 25% will bereleased after the second anniversary.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 73 Remuneration Policy continued The remuneration policy table The table below summarises the main components of the reward package for Executive Directors.
Vesting is determined based on the GLTI following measures: share ownership.
Maximum long-term incentive face value at award of 575% of base salary for the Chief Executive The use of free cash flow as the principal All awards vest not less than three years after the award based and 525% for others Executive Directors.
74 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Remuneration Policy continued Notes to the remuneration policy table Existing arrangements We will honour existing awards to Executive Directors, and incentives, benefits and contractual arrangements made to individuals prior to their promotion to the Board and or prior to the approval and implementation of this policy.
For the avoidance of doubt this includes payments in respect of any award granted under the previous remuneration policy.
This will last until the existing incentives vest or lapse or the benefits or contractual arrangements no longer apply.
Long-Term Incentive GLTI When referring to our long-term incentive awards we use the financial year end in which the award was made.
For example, the 2017 award was made in the financial year ending 31 March 2017.
The awards are usually made in the first half of the financial year the 2017 award was made in June 2016.
The extent to which awards vest depends on two performance conditions: underlying operational performance as measured by adjusted free cash flow: and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR against a peer group median.
Adjusted free cash flow The free cash flow performance is based on the cumulative adjusted free cash flow figure over the performance period.
The detailed targets and the definition ofadjusted free cash flow are determined each year as appropriate.
The target adjusted free cash flow level is set by reference to our long-range plan and market expectations.
We consider the targets to be critical to the Companys long-term success and its ability to maximise shareholder value, and to be in line with the strategic goals of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee sets these targets to be sufficiently demanding with significant stretch where only outstanding performance will be rewarded with a maximum payout.
The cumulative adjusted free cash flow vesting levels as a percentage of the award subject to this performance element are shown in the table below with linear interpolation between points : Vesting percentage Performance % of FCF element Below threshold 0% Threshold 18% Target 40% Maximum 100% TSR outperformance of a peer group median We have a limited number of appropriate peers and this makes the measurement of a relative ranking system volatile.
As such, the outperformance of the median of a peer group is felt to be the most appropriate TSR measure.
The peer group for the performance conditionis reviewed each year and amended as appropriate.
The TSR vesting levels as a percentage of the award subject to this performance element are shown in the table below with linear interpolation between points : Vesting percentage % of TSR element Below median 0% Median 18% Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 65th percentile 40% Percentage outperformance of the peer group median equivalent to 80th percentile 100% In order to determine the percentages for the equivalent outperformance levels above median, the Remuneration Committee seeks independent external advice.
Remuneration policy for other employees While our remuneration policy follows the same fundamental principles across the Group, packages offered to employees reflect differences in market practice in the different countries, role and seniority.
For example, the remuneration package elements for our Executive Committee are essentially the same as for the Executive Directors with some minor differences, for example smaller levels of share awards and local or regional performance conditions where appropriate.
The remuneration for the next level of management, our senior leadership team, again follows the same principles with local and individual performance aspects in the annual bonus targets and performance share awards.
They also receive lower levels of share awards which are partly delivered in conditional share awards without performance conditions.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 75 Estimates of total future potential remuneration from 2018 pay packages The tables below provide estimates of the potential future remuneration for each of the Executive Directors based on the remuneration opportunity to be granted in the 2018 financial year.
Potential outcomes based on different performance scenarios are provided for each Executive Director.
The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below.
Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Benefits are valued using the figures in the total remuneration for the 2017 financial year table on page 78 of the 2017 report.
Pensions are valued by applying cash allowance rate of 24% of base salary at 1 July 2017.
Base Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Chief Executive 1,150 27 276 1,453 Chief Financial Officer 725 29 174 928 On target Based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with plan.
The target award opportunity for the annual bonus GSTIP is 100% of base salary.
The target award opportunity for the long-term incentive GLTI is 230% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 210% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Weassumed that TSR performance was at median.
Maximum Two times the target award opportunity is payable under the annual bonus GSTIP.
The maximum levels of performance for the long-term incentive GLTI are 250% of target award opportunity.
We assumed that TSR performance was at or above the 80th percentile equivalent.
All scenarios Long-term incentives consist of share awards only which are measured at face value i. e. no assumption for increase in share price or cash dividend equivalents payable.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive Nick Read, Chief Financial officer 000 000 12,000 12,000 10,366 64% 10,000 10,000 8,000 8,000 6,184 5,248 62% 6,000 6,000 50% 3,176 22% 4,000 4,000 48% 22% 1,453 23% 928 23% 2,000 28% 14% 2,000 29% 15% 0 Fixed On target Maximum 0 Fixed On target Maximum Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Salary and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentive Recruitment remuneration Our approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary and appropriate to attract the right talent to the role.
The remuneration policy table pages 72 and 73 sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, and be subject to the same constraints, as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles.
This means a potential maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of base salary and long-term incentive maximum face value of opportunity at award of 575% of base salary.
When considering the remuneration arrangements of individuals recruited from external roles to the Board, we will take into account the remuneration package of that individual in their prior role.
We only provide additional compensation to individuals for awards foregone.
If necessary we will seek to replicate, as far as practicable, the level and timing of such remuneration, taking into account also any remaining performance requirements applying to it.
This will be achieved by granting awards of cash or shares that vest over a timeframe similar to those forfeited and if appropriate based on performance conditions.
A commensurate reduction in quantum will be applied where it is determined that the new awards are either not subject to performance conditions or subject to performance conditions that are not as stretching as those of the awards forfeited.
Service contracts of Executive Directors After an initial termof up to two years Executive Directors contracts have rolling terms and are terminable on no more than 12months notice.
The key elements of the service contract for executives relate to remuneration, payments on loss of office see below, and restrictions during active employment and for 12 months thereafter.
These restrictions include non-competition, non-solicitation of customers and employees etc.
Additionally, all of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the acceleration of vesting.
76 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Remuneration Policy continued Payments for departing executives In the table below we summarise the key elements of our policy on payment for loss of office.
We will of course, always comply both with the relevant plan rules and local employment legislation.
Provision Policy Notice period and 12 months notice from the Company to the Executive Director.
compensation for Up to 12 months base salary in line with the notice period.
Notice period payments will either be made as normal loss ofoffice in iftheexecutive continues to work during the notice period or is on gardening leave or they will be made servicecontracts as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject to mitigation if alternative employment is obtained.
Treatment of annual bonus The annual bonus will be pro-rated for the period of service during the financial year and will reflect the extent GSTIP on termination to which Company performance has been achieved.
under plan rules The Remuneration Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement to an annual bonus to reflect the individuals performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested An Executive Directors award will vest in accordance with the terms of the plan and satisfaction of performance long-term incentive awards conditions measured at the normal completion of the performance period, with the award pro-rated for the GLTI on termination proportion of the vesting period that had elapsed at the date of cessation of employment.
underplanrules The Remuneration Committee has discretion to vary the level of vesting as deemed appropriate, and in particular to determine that awards should not vest for reasons which may include, at their absolute discretion, departure in case of poor performance, departure without the agreement of the Board, or detrimental competitive activity.
Pension and benefits Generally pension and benefit provisions will continue to apply until the termination date.
Where appropriate other benefits may be receivable, such as but not limited to payments in lieu of accrued holiday and legal fees or tax advice costs in relation to the termination.
Benefits of relative small value may continue after termination where appropriate, such as but not limited to mobile phone provision.
In exceptional circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual albeit that any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Group.
We will only take such a course of action in exceptional circumstances and where it is considered to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration Our policy is for the Chairman to review the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors annually following consultation with the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Fees for the Chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
Element Policy Fees We aim to pay competitively for the role including consideration of the time commitment required.
We benchmark the fees against an appropriate external comparator group.
We pay fees to our Chairman and Senior Independent Director that include fees for chairmanship of any committees.
We pay a fee to each of our other Non-Executive Directors and they receive an additional fee if they chair a committee.
Non-executive fee levels are set within the maximum level as approved by shareholders as part of our Articles of Association.
Allowances An allowance is payable each time a non-Europe-based Non-Executive Director is required to travel to attend Board and committee meetings to reflect the additional time commitment involved.
Incentives Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plans.
Benefits Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any benefit plans.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to the use of a car and a driver whenever and wherever he is providing his services to or representing theCompany.
We have been advised that for Non-Executive Directors, certain travel and accommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit therefore we also cover the tax liability for these expenses.
Non-Executive Director service contracts Non-Executive Directors are engaged on letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
Theappointment of Non-Executive Directors may be terminated without compensation.
Non-Executive Directors are generally not expected toserve for a period exceeding nine years.
For further information refer to the Nomination and Governance Committee section of the Annual Report.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 77 Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee In this section we give details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee and activities undertaken during the 2017 financial year.
The Committee is comprised to exercise independent judgement and consists only of the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Chairman: Valerie Gooding Committee members: Dr Mathias Dpfner, Renee James and Samuel Jonah The Committee regularly consults with Vittorio Colao, the Chief Executive, and Ronald Schellekens, the Group HR Director, on various matters relating to the appropriateness of awards for Executive Directors and senior executives, though they are not present when their own compensation is discussed.
Inaddition, Adrian Jackson, the Group Reward and Policy Director, provides a perspective on information provided to the Committee, and requests information and analysis from external advisers as required.
Rosemary Martin, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, advises the Committee on corporate governance guidelines and acts as secretary to the Committee.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers where appropriate.
The appointed advisers, Willis Towers Watson, were selected through a thorough process led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and were appointed by the Committee in 2007.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has direct access to the advisers as and when required, and the Committee determines the protocols by which the advisers interact with management in support of the Committee.
The advice and recommendations of the external advisers are used as a guide, but do not serve as a substitute for thorough consideration of the issues by each Committee member.
Advisers attend Committee meetings occasionally, as and when required by the Committee.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
This is based upon principles of transparency, integrity, objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality by executive remuneration consultants.
Willis Towers Watson has confirmed that it adheres to that Code of Conduct throughout the year for all remuneration services provided to Vodafone and therefore the Committee is satisfied that it is independent and objective.
The Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct is available at .
Fees for services provided to the Committee 1 Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee 000 Other services provided to the Company Willis Towers Watson Remuneration Advice on market practice: governance: 60 Reward and benefits consultancy: Committee provision ofmarket data on executive reward: provision of benchmark data: pension in 2007 rewardconsultancy: and performance analysis.
administration: and insurance consultancy services.
Note: 1 Fees are determined on a time spent basis.
2016 annual general meeting Remuneration Report voting results At the 2016 annual general meeting there was an advisory vote on our Remuneration Report.
Details of the voting outcomes are provided in the table below.
Votes for % Votes against % Total votes Withheld Remuneration Report 17,640,195,555 96.92 560,164,876 3.08 18,200,360,431 492,289,893 2014 annual general meeting Remuneration Policy voting results At the 2014 annual general meeting there was a binding vote on our Remuneration Policy.
Votes for % Votes against % Total votes Withheld Remuneration Policy 16,620,036,145 95.97 698,459,069 4.03 17,318,495,214 227,447,313 Meetings The Remuneration Committee had five formal meetings and two formal conference calls during the year.
In addition, informal conference calls can also take place.
The principal agenda items at the formal meetings were as follows: Meeting Agenda items May 2016 2016 annual bonus achievement and 2017 targets and ranges 2016 Directors Remuneration Report 2013 long-term incentive award vesting and 2017 targets and ranges July 2016 2017 long-term incentive awards Large local market CEO remuneration November 2016 Review of Remuneration Policy Corporate governance matters Shareholder communication materials January 2017 2017 annual bonus framework Shareholder consultation update March 2017 2017 reward packages for the Executive Committee 2017 Directors Remuneration Report Chairman and Non-Executive Director fee levels Committees Terms of Reference Shareholder consultation update Risk assessment 78 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2017 remuneration In this section we summarise the pay packages awarded to our Executive Directors for performance in the 2017 financial year versus 2016.
Specifically we have provided a table that shows all remuneration that was earned by each individual during the year and computed a single total remuneration figure for the year.
The value of the annual bonus GSTIP reflects what was earned in respect of the year but will be paid out in cash in the following year.
Similarly the value of the long-term incentive GLTI reflects the share awards which will vest in June 2017 as a result of the performance through the three year period ended at the completion of our financial year on 31 March 2017.
The Remuneration Committee reviews all incentive awards prior to payment and uses judgement to ensure that the final assessments of performance are fair and appropriate.
If circumstances warrant it, the Committee may adjust the final payment or vesting downwards.
On this occasion, based on the fact that final annual bonus payout and final vesting level of long-term incentives awards under the GLTI were deemed to be an accurate reflection of performance and were considered fair and appropriate, the Committee did not use its discretion to adjust final outcomes.
Total remuneration for the 2017 financial year audited Vittorio Colao Nick Read 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 Salary fees 1,150 1,150 710 694 1 Taxable benefits 27 32 29 26 Annual bonus: GSTIP see below for further detail 1,087 1,342 675 817 Total long-term incentive: 3,477 2,383 1,860 1,393 2 GLTI vesting during the year 2,964 2,056 1,586 842 3 Cash in lieu of GLTI dividends 513 327 274 134 GLTR vesting during the year 380 GLTR dividend equivalent shares 37 Cash in lieu of pension 276 316 171 191 4 Other 1 1 1 1 Total 6,018 5,224 3,446 3,122 Notes: 1 Taxable benefits include amounts in respect of: P rivate healthcare 2017: Vittorio Colao 3,091, Nick Read 2,079: 2016: Vittorio Colao 1,946, Nick Read1,946 : Cash car allowance 19,200 p. a. : and Travel 2017: Vittorio Colao 4,812, Nick Read 7,933: 2016: Vittorio Colao 10,764, Nick Read 4,546.
2 The value shown in the 2016 column is the award which vested on 26 June 2016 and is valued using the execution share price on 27 June 2016 of 211.87.
The value shown in the 2017 column is the award which vests on 26 June 2017 and is valued using an average of closing share price over the last quarter of the 2017 financial year of 203.24 pence.
3 Participants also receive a cash award, equivalent in value to the dividends that would have been paid during the vesting period on any shares that vest.
The cash in lieu of dividend value shown in 2017 relates to the award which vests on 26 June 2017.
4 Reflects the value of the SAYE benefit which is calculated as 250 x 12 months x 20% to reflect the discount applied based on savings made during the year.
2017 annual bonus GSTIP payout audited In the table below we disclose our achievement against each of the performance measures and targets in our annual bonus GSTIP and the resulting total annual bonus payout level for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 94.5% of target.
This is applied to the target bonus level of 100% of base salary for each executive.
Commentary on our performance against each measure is provided below the table.
Payout at Payout at Threshold Target Maximum Actual target maximum Actual performance performance performance performance 1 performance performance payout level level level level Performance measure 100% 200% % bn bn bn bn Service revenue 20% 40% 17.7% 47.8 50.3 52.8 50.0 2 Adjusted EBITDA 20% 40% 17.1% 14.9 16.0 17.1 15.8 Adjusted free cash flow 20% 40% 20.1% 3.2 4.0 4.9 4.0 Customer appreciation KPIs 40% 80% 39.6% See below for further details Total annual bonus payout level 100% 200% 94.5% Notes: 1 These figures are adjusted to include the removal of the impact of M&A, foreign exchange movements and any changes in accounting treatment.
2 Adjusted EBITDA, previously referred to as EBITDA in prior year reports.
During the year under review, service revenue performance was slightly below budget which was mainly due to below target performance in our UK, India and Carrier Services businesses.
Adjusted EBITDA result was also slightly below target performance with the UK business off-setting above target performance in Europe and India off-setting positive performance in the AMAP region.
With regards to adjusted free cash flow, overall performance was on target with below target results in the Europe and AMAP regions being offset by positive cash management at a Group level.
Customer appreciation KPIs An assessment of performance under the customer appreciation KPIs measure was conducted on a market by market basis.
Each market was assessed against a number of different metrics which included: Net promoter score for both Consumer and Enterprise business units Brand consideration for Enterprise and both Consumer user and Consumer non-user Churn, revenue market share and ARPU Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 79 In respect of the measures included under the customer appreciation KPIs, net promoter score is used as a measure of the extent to which our customers would recommend us, whilst brand consideration acts as a measure of the percentage of people who would consider using a certain brand as their telecoms provider.
Both measures utilise data from our local markets which is collected and validated for quality and consistency by independent third party agencies.
The data is sourced from studies involving both our own customers and customers of our competitors for the NPS measure, and both Vodafone users and non-users for the brand consideration measure.
In formulating a final assessment of performance under the customer appreciation KPIs other relevant customer factors such as churn, customer growth and service levels are considered.
The aggregated performance for the regions and the Group are calculated on a revenue-weighted average to give an overall achievement.
Performance this year under this measure is as follows: Customer appreciation KPIs Achievement Europe 89.5% AMAP 119.5% Group 99.1% The achievement percentage for Europe reflects strong performance in Italy, where we remain the Consumer NPS leader, as well as in Spain where not only did we remain the Consumer NPS leader but we also now lead the brand consideration for non user consumers.
This strong performance however is offset by poor performance in the UK where further improvement is required on the customer experience.
The achievement percentage for AMAP reflects strong performance in several markets, specifically Egypt, South Africa and Ghana.
Egypt are leaders in both Consumer and Enterprise NPS and continue to maintain their number 1 position in brand consideration for both Consumer and Enterprise, while South Africa continue to lead in both Consumer NPS and brand consideration.
Base salary Target bonus 2017 payout Actual payment 2017 annual bonus GSTIP amounts 000 % of base salary % of target 000 Vittorio Colao 1,150 100% 94.5% 1,087 Nick Read 714 100% 94.5% 675 Long-term incentive GLTI award vesting in June 2017 audited The 2015 long-term incentive GLTI awards which were made in June 2014 will vest at 43.5% of maximum 108.9% of target in June 2017.
The performance conditions for the three year period ending in the 2017 financial year are as follows: TSR outperformance TSR peer group 0% 5% 10% Bharti Orange Adjusted free cash flow measure bn Up to median 65th percentile equivalent 80th percentile equivalent BT Group Telecom Italia Below threshold 3.4 0% 0% 0% Deutsche Telekom Telefnica Threshold 3.4 50% 100% 125% MTN Target 5.1 75% 150% 200% Maximum 6.8 125% 187.5% 250% The adjusted free cash flow for the three year period ended on 31 March 2015 GLTI award: TSR performance growth in the value of 2017 was 5.7 billion.
This compares with a target of 5.1 billion and a hypothetical US$100 holding over the performance period, amaximum of 6.8 billion.
six-month averaging The chart to the right shows that our TSR performance against our peer 140 133 133 group for the same period resulted in below median performance.
130 122 117 Using the combined payout matrix above, this performance resulted 115 120 118 107 in a payout of 108.9% of target.
113 113 110 106 98 The combined vesting percentages are applied to the target number 101 100 100 of shares granted as shown below.
Adjusted free cash Maximum Target flow performance Value of number number payout Overall vesting Number of shares vesting 2015 GLTI performance share awards vesting in June 2017 of shares of shares % of target TSR multiplier % of target shares vesting 000 Vittorio Colao 3,350,011 1,340,004 108.9% 1.00 times 108.9% 1,458,594 2,964 Nick Read 1,792,668 717,067 108.9% 1.00 times 108.9% 780,527 1,586 These share awards will vest on 26 June 2017.
Specified procedures are performed by  LLP over the adjusted free cash flow to assist with the Committees assessment of performance.
The performance assessment in respect of the TSR measure is undertaken by Willis Towers Watson.
Details of how the plan works can be found in the Policy Report that was approved at the 2014 AGM.
80 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-term incentive GLTI awarded during the year audited The performance conditions for the 2017 long-term incentive awards made in June 2016 are a combination of adjusted free cash flow and TSR performance as follows: TSR outperformance TSR peer group 0.0% 4.5% 9.0% Bharti Orange 1 Adjusted free cash flow measure bn Up to median 65th percentile equivalent 80th percentile equivalent BT Group Telecom Italia Below threshold 9.95 0% 0% 0% Deutsche Telekom Telefnica Threshold 9.95 50% 75% 100% MTN Target 11.80 100% 150% 200% Maximum 13.65 125% 187.5% 250% Note: 1 In line with the decision to change the Groups reporting currency to euros from pounds sterling, as outlined in last years report, the equivalent targets in euros, based on internal foreign exchange rate assumptions, including 1.38 : 1, will be a threshold of 13.75bn, a target of 16.30bn and a maximum of 18.85bn.
The combined vesting percentages are applied to the target number of conditional shares granted.
In order to participate fully in this award, executives had to co-invest personal shares worth 100% of salary.
The resulting awards to Executive Directors were as follows: 1 Number of shares awarded Face value of shares awarded Proportion of Target maximum award vesting level Maximum Target Maximum vesting at minimum Performance 40% of max vesting level vesting level vestinglevel 2017 GLTI performance share awards made in June 2016 performance period end 1 Vittorio Colao 1,231,575 3,078,938 2,670,055 6,675,138 th 31 Mar 2019 5 1 Nick Read 572,849 1,432,123 1,241,937 3,104,843 th 31 Mar 2019 5 Note: 1 Face value calculated based on the share price at the date of grant of 216.8 pence.
Dividend equivalents on the shares that vest are paid in cash after the vesting date.
Outstanding awards The award structure for awards made in the 2016 and 2017 financial years vesting in June September 2018 and June 2019 respectively is as set out below.
These awards vest subject to a combined vesting matrix as follows illustrated as a percentage of target with linear interpolation between points : TSR outperformance Up to 65th percentile 80th percentile Adjusted free cash flow measure Median equivalent equivalent Below threshold 0% 0% 0% Threshold 50% 75% 100% Target 100% 150% 200% Maximum 125% 187.5% 250% Further details on the matrix structure used for the 2016 and 2017 awards can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration of the relevant year.
All-employee share plans During the year, the Executive Directors were eligible to participate in the UK all-employee plans.
Summary of plans Sharesave The Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan is an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved scheme open to all staff permanently employed by aVodafone company in the UK as of the eligibility date.
Options under the plan are granted at up to a 20% discount to market value.
Executive Directors participation is included in the option table on page 82.
Share Incentive Plan The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan SIP is an HMRC approved plan open toall staff permanently employed by a Vodafone company in the UK.
Participants may contribute up to a maximum of 125 per month or5%of salary if less which the trustee of the plan uses to buy shares on their behalf.
An equivalent number of shares are purchased with contributions from the employing company.
UK-based Executive Directors are eligible toparticipate.
Following a review of the UK all-employee plans it was decided that with effect from 1 April 2017 such offerings should be solely provided through an enhanced Sharesave programme.
The new arrangements bring our UK all-employee plans more closely in line with market practice, help to reduce our costs and provide a simpler share plan offering for our UK employees.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 81 Pensions audited The Executive Directors received a cash allowance of 24% of base salary during the 2017 financial year.
No Executive Directors accrued benefits under any defined contribution pension plans during the year or have participated in a defined benefits scheme while an Executive Director.
The Executive Directors are provided benefits in the event of death in service.
They also have an entitlement under a long-term disability plan from which two-thirds of base salary, up to a maximum benefit determined by the insurer, would be provided until normal retirement date aged 60.
In respect of the Executive Committee members, the Group has made aggregate contributions of 233,011 2016: 130,806 into defined contribution pension schemes.
Alignment to shareholder interests audited Both of our Executive Directors have shareholdings in excess of their goals.
Current levels of ownership by the Executive Directors, and the date by which the goal should be or should have been achieved, are shown below.
The values are calculated using an average share price over the six months to 31 March 2017 of 206.37 pence.
Goal as a % Current % % of goal Number Value of Date for goal At 31 March 2017 of salary of salary held achieved of shares shareholding to be achieved Vittorio Colao 400% 2,049% 512% 11,420,608 23.6m July 2012 Nick Read 300% 548% 183% 1,896,820 3.9m April 2019 As outlined in the Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, and subject to shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy, the shareholding guidelines will be increased to 500% of salary for the Chief Executive and 400% of salary for other Executive Directors with effect from the 2017 AGM.
The revised guidelines will also include a post-employment condition whereby the Executive Directors will be required to continue to meet their guideline until all long-term incentives have vested.
If this condition is not met, then any unvested GLTI awards will normally be forfeited Collectively the Executive Committee including the Executive Directorsown more than 21 million Vodafone shares, with a value of over 45.3 million.
None of the Executive Committee members shareholdings amounts to more than 1% of the issued shares in that class of share, excluding treasury shares.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company audited A summary of interests in shares and scheme interests of the Directors who served during the year is given below.
More details of the performance shares and options follows.
Share plans Share options SAYE Total number Unvested GLTI shares unvested without At 31 March 2017 of interests in shares with performance conditions performance conditions Executive Directors Vittorio Colao 20,898,320 9,468,105 9,607 Nick Read 6,726,821 4,814,758 15,243 Total 27,625,141 14,282,863 24,850 The total number of interests in shares includes interests of connected persons, unvested share awards and share options.
Total number of interests At 31 March 2017 in shares Non-Executive Directors Sir Crispin Davis 34,500 Dr Mathias Dpfner 11,500 Dame Clara Furse 25,000 Valerie Gooding 28,970 Renee James 27,272 Samuel Jonah 30,190 Gerard Kleisterlee 107,078 Nick Land 42,090 David Nish 74,137 Phil Yea 33,408 At 16 May 2017 and during the period from 1 April 2017 to 16 May 2017, no Director had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Other than those individuals included in the tables above who were Board members at 31 March 2017, members of the Groups Executive Committee at 31 March 2017 had an aggregate beneficial interest in 8,678,718 ordinary shares of the Company.
At 16 May 2017 the Directors had an aggregate beneficial interest in 13,731,573 ordinary shares of the Company and the Executive Committee members had an aggregate beneficial interest in 8,679,088 ordinary shares of the Company, which includes awards made under the Vodafone Share Incentive Plan after 31 March 2017.
None of the Directors or the Executive Committee members had an individual beneficial interest amounting to greater than 1% of the Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors total number of interests in shares did not change during the period from 1 April 2017 to 16 May 2017.
82 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance shares The maximum number of outstanding shares that have been awarded to Directors under the long-term incentive GLTI plan are currently as follows: 2015 award 2016 award 2017 award Awarded: June 2014 Awarded: June 2015 and September 2015 Awarded: June 2016 Performance period ending: March 2017 Performance period ending: March 2018 Performance period ending: March 2019 Vesting date: June 2017 Vesting date: June 2018 Vesting date: June 2019 GLTI performance share awards Share price at grant: 189.9 pence Share price at grant: 239.4 pence and 207.2 pence Share price at grant: 216.8 pence Vittorio Colao 3,350,011 3,039,156 3,078,938 Nick Read 1,792,668 1,589,967 1,432,123 For details of the performance conditions for the 2016 and 2017 awards please see page 80.
Details of the 2015 award are available on page 79.
Share options The following information summarises the Executive Directors options under the Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan SAYE and the Vodafone Group Incentive Plan GIP.
HMRC approved awards may be made under all of the schemes mentioned.
No other Directors have options under any schemes and, other than under the SAYE, no options have been granted since 2007.
Options under the Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan were granted at a discount of 20% to the market value of the shares at the time of the grant.
No other options may be granted at a discount.
Options Options Options At granted exercised lapsed 1 April 2016 during the during the during the Options Market or date of 2017 financial 2017 financial 2017 financial held at Option price on appointment year year year 31 March 2017 price exercise Date from Number Number Number Number Number which Gain on 1 Grant date of shares of shares of shares of shares of shares Pence exercisable Expiry date Pence exercise Vittorio Colao SAYE Jul 2014 9,607 9,607 156.13 Sep 2019 Feb 2020 Total 9,607 9,607 Nick Read 2 GIP Jul 2007 927,443 927,443 167.80 Jul 2010 Jul 2017 235.30 626,030 SAYE Jul 2012 10,389 10,389 144.37 Sep 2017 Feb 2018 SAYE Mar 2017 4,854 4,854 154.51 Apr 2022 Sep 2022 Total 937,832 15,243 Notes: 1 The closing trade share price on 31 March 2017 was 208.10 pence.
The highest trade share price during the year was 239.70 pence and the lowest price was 190.50 pence.
2 The options granted in July 2007 were subject to a three year cumulative growth in adjusted earnings per share performance condition.
The options vested 100% in July 2010.
At 16 May 2017 there had been no change to the Directors interests in share options from 31 March 2017.
Other than those individuals included in the table above, at 16 May 2017 members of the Groups Executive Committee held options for 54,654 ordinary shares at prices ranging from 154.5 pence to 189.2 pence per ordinary share, with a weighted average exercise price of 164.1 pence per ordinary share exercisable at dates ranging from 1 September 2017 to 1 April 2022.
Hannes Ametsreiter, Aldo Bisio, Antnio Coimbra, Ahmed Essam, Ronald Schellekens and Serpil Timuray held no options at 16 May 2017.
Loss of office payments audited Other than amounts already disclosed in prior year reports, no loss of office payments were made during the year.
Payments to past Directors audited During the 2017 financial year Lord MacLaurin received benefit payments in respect of security costs as per his contractual arrangements.
These costs exceeded our fide minimis threshold of 5,000 p. a. and, including the tax paid, were 9,813 2016: 9,411.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as non-executive directors and retain the fees.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, Vittorio Colao served as a non-executive director on the boards of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC.
Vittorio retained fees of 43,870 in respect of this role.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 83 Assessing pay and performance In the table below we summarise the Chief Executives single figure remuneration over the past eight years, as well as how our variable pay plans have paid out in relation to the maximum opportunity.
This can be compared with the historic TSR performance over the same period.
The chart below shows the performance of the Company relative to the STOXX Europe 600 Index over an eight year period.
The STOXX Europe 600 Index was selected as this is a broad-based index that includes many of our closest competitors.
It should be noted thatthepayout from the long-term incentive plan is based on the TSRperformance shown in the chart on page 79 and not this chart.
Change in the Chief Executives remuneration In the table below we show the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus payment between the 2016 and 2017 financial years compared to the average for other Vodafone Group employees who are measured on comparable business objectives and who have been employed in the UK since 2016 per capita.
Vodafone has employees based all around the world and some of these individuals work in countries with very high inflation therefore a comparison to Vodafones UK-based Group employees is more appropriate than to all employees.
Percentage change from 2016 to 2017 Other Vodafone Group employees Item Chief Executive: Vittorio Colao employed in the UK Base salary 0.0% 5.0% Taxable benefits -15.6% 0.4% Annual bonus -19.0% -6.7% Relative spend on pay The chart below shows both the dividends distributed in the year and the total cost of remuneration in the Group.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 5,804 5,519 6,000 5,000 4,233 3,709 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 Distributed by way of dividends Overall expenditure on remuneration for all employees For more details on dividends and expenditure on remuneration for all employees, please see pages 125 and 154 respectively.
84 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Directors remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued 2017 remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited 1 Salary fees Benefits Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Gerard Kleisterlee 625 625 87 77 712 702 Senior Independent Director Phil Yea 140 128 2 1 142 129 Non-Executive Directors Sir Crispin Davis 115 115 10 125 115 Dr Mathias Dpfner 115 115 10 1 125 116 Dame Clara Furse 115 115 13 128 115 Valerie Gooding 140 132 12 6 152 138 2 Renee James 139 133 11 10 150 143 2 Samuel Jonah 145 151 9 17 154 168 Nick Land 140 140 3 1 143 141 David Nish appointed 1 January 2016 115 29 13 7 128 36 Former Non-Executive Directors Luc Vandevelde retired 28 July 2015 53 19 72 Total 1,789 1,736 170 139 1,959 1,875 Notes: 1 We have been advised that for Non-Executive Directors, certain travel and accommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit.
The table above includes these travel expenses and the corresponding tax contribution.
2 Salary fees include an additional allowance of 6,000 per meeting for Directors based outside Europe.
2018 remuneration Details of how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2018 financial year are set out below.
2018 base salaries As part of the 2017 review, the Remuneration Committee considered business performance, salary increases for other UK employees and external market information.
In respect of external market information, the Committee looked at the following two peer groups: 1 E uro Top peer group: Top 25 European general industry companies by market capitalisation, excluding financial services companies, as well as a select group of telecommunications companies in the Top 100 that are also members of our TSR peer group.
2 FTSE 30: Top 30 FTSE listed companies by market capitalisation, excluding financial services companies.
The Committee decided to increase the salary of the Chief Financial Officer by 1.5% which is in line with the average salary increase budget for all employees across the UK.
The Chief Executive requested not to be considered for a salary increase during the review.
The average salary increase for Executive Committee members will be 1.6% this compares to a budget of 1.5% which is based on an average of the relevant local market budget for each Executive Committee member.
The annual salaries for 2018 effective 1 July 2017 are as follows: Chief Executive: Vittorio Colao 1,150,000: and Chief Financial Officer: Nick Read 725,000.
2018 annual bonus GSTIP Following the Committees annual review of the GSTIP framework, and as outlined on pages 68 and 70, the Committee decided that the adjusted EBITDA measure used in previous years should be replaced with an adjusted EBIT measure to reflect an increased focus on both capital discipline and expenditure.
The performance measures and weightings for 2018 are outlined below.
service revenue 20% : adjusted EBIT 20% : adjusted free cash flow 20% : and customer appreciation KPIs 40%.
This includes an assessment of net promoter score NPS and brand consideration measures.
The assessment of NPS and brand consideration metrics utilises data collected in our local markets which is validated for quality and consistency by independent third party agencies.
Further details on how this data is collated and how the individual metrics used to measure customer appreciation KPIs are defined is provided on pages 78 and 79.
Due to the potential impact on our commercial interests, annual bonus targets are considered commercially sensitive and therefore will be disclosed in the 2018 Remuneration Report following the completion of the financial year.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 85 Long-term incentive GLTI awards for 2018 Subject to the approval of the Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM, awards for 2018 will be made in line with the arrangements described in our policy on pages 72 to 74.
Vesting of the 2018 award will be subject to the performance of adjusted free cash flow 2 3 of total award and TSR 1 3 of total award.
The details for the 2018 award targets are provided in the table below with linear interpolation between points.
Following the annual review of the performance measures which included a review of analysis provided by the Committees external advisers, the Committee decided that for the 2018 award the TSR outperformance range should be increased from 4.5% at target and 9.0% at maximum to 5.0% and 10.0% respectively.
The Committee also determined it appropriate to keep the same peer group constituents as used for the 2017 award, but to also include Royal KPN and Liberty Global in the 2018 peer group.
Adjusted FCF Performance Adjusted FCF performance Vesting percentage 2 3 of total award bn % of FCF element Below threshold 14.75 0% Threshold 14.75 18% Target 16.60 40% Maximum 18.45 100% TSR Performance Vesting percentage 1 3 of total award TSR outperformance % of TSR element Below threshold Below median 0% Threshold Median 18% Target 5.0% 65th percentile equivalent 40% Maximum 10.0% 80th percentile equivalent 100% TSR peer group Bharti BT Group Deutsche Telekom Liberty Global MTN Orange Royal KPN Telecom Italia Telefnica 2018 remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors For the 2017 review, the fees for our Chairman and non-executives have been benchmarked against the FTSE 30 excluding financial services companies.
Following the review it was agreed that no changes would be made to the current fee levels which are outlined in the table below.
Fee payable 000 Position role From 1 April 2017 1 Chairman 625 Non-Executive Director 115 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 25 Additional fee for Chairmanship of Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees 25 Note: 1 The Chairmans fee also includes the fee for the Chairmanship of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
For 2018, the allowance payable each time a non-Europe-based Non-Executive Director is required to travel to attend Board and Committee meetings to reflect the additional time commitment involved is 6,000.
Further remuneration information Dilution All awards are made under plans that incorporate dilution limits as set out in the guidelines for share incentive schemes published by the Investment Association.
The current estimated dilution from subsisting executive awards is approximately 2.9% of the Companys share capital at 31 March 2017 2.8% at 31 March 2016, whilst from all-employee share awards it is approximately 0.3% 0.5% at 31 March 2016.
This gives a total dilution of 3.2% 3.3%at 31 March 2016.
Service contracts The terms and conditions of appointment of our Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the annual general meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The Executive Directors have notice periods in their service contracts of 12 months.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain provision for notice periods or for compensation if their appointments are terminated.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Valerie Gooding Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 May 2017
