68 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle D Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report DRR Chairmans statement Short-term operational excellence is critical and the Remuneration Committee has spent a great deal of time during the year considering the incentive arrangements of the Executive Directors and the top 200 leaders in the Company with a view to ensuring the right balance between rewarding short-term performance and long-term growth.
A sharp focus on annual performance will continue to be critical to delivering sustained, longer-term shareholder value.
The new Directors Remuneration Policy At the heart of the new policy, the Remuneration Committee is proposing a new approach to incentives which balances reward for incremental annual performance and long-term sustainable shareholder value creation as measured by share price appreciation and a progressive dividend policy.
It is the Committees view that the new five-year strategy requires a bespoke and innovative approach to remuneration.
The approach is designed to: Provide a clear link to strategy implementation Michael Harper Link short-term and sustained long-term Remuneration Committee Chairman performance: and Align the interests of our shareholders and leadership team.
The proposed incentive arrangements are built on the key performance indicators and performance targets Committee Members Dear Shareholder which are integral to the five-year Integrated Strategic Lynn Brubaker, Admiral On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Business Plan.
Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Directors remuneration report for the financial year Mark Elliott, Ian Mason, Paul ending 31 March 2017.
During the year we embarked on an extensive Murray and Susan Searle.
consultation exercise with our largest shareholders and As the Chairman has outlined in his statement on page their representatives and we have listened carefully to Chairs statement: 4, the Board has been encouraged by the progress made the views we have received.
The proposals which we pages 68 to 69. by the CEO and his new Executive Committee during the are asking shareholders to vote on at the Annual General year and by the momentum the CEO in particular has Meeting incorporate several design features which some At a glance: pages 70 to 71. given to the development and implementation of our of our shareholders requested during the engagement new growth strategy.
The progress is evident from process.
In summary the new policy: Remuneration Policy: pages the growth in our share price and our improved total 72 to 81. shareholder return performance.
Reduces the total incentive opportunity from 425% to 325% of salary: Annual Report on Overall, the Remuneration Committee believes that good Reduces the maximum award under the Bonus Remuneration: pages progress has been made during the year with increased Banking Plan from 225% to 200% of salary.
As now, 82 to 91. orders and profitability.
Overall, the annual contribution half the award is deferred into shares and delivered to the Bonus Banking Plan pool remains consistent over a four-year period: This report complies with with 2016 see page 71.
Introduces a new annual Deferred Share Plan equal the Large and Mediumto 125% of salary all of which is deferred into equity sized Companies and The business context in 2017 and subject to a three-year performance underpin Groups Accounting and Governments across the globe are increasingly seeking with a further two-year holding period.
This will Reports Amendment to protect their citizens against a variety of security be used in place of the performance share plan: Regulations 2013. threats.
Our expertise in science and technology is particularly relevant in this environment and we play Increases the minimum shareholding requirement During 2017 the Committee a vital role in linking different technologies and making for the CEO to 300% of salary and 200% for the CFO met five times detailed connections across supply chains and internationally.
from 200% and 150% of salary respectively: and summary of attendance The implementation of our new strategy, which Reduces the pension contribution for new Executive and activities are provided represents significant change in direction and Directors to 15% of salary from 25% of salary.
on pages 46 and 84. approach in the complex market of defence is challenging and will take time.
There are no other material changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The essence of the business strategy is to grow the Company sustainably over the next five years through transformation which continues at pace, partnering with our customers and investing in organic growth.
This organic investment includes internal research and development, complemented by bolt-on acquisitions where there is a strong strategic fit.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 69 Aligning the interests of our shareholders and per Share and Total Shareholder Return performance A number of checks QinetiQs leadership team measures.
The design of the incentive arrangements The Remuneration Committee has sought to ensure that are based on annual and multi-year performance and balances have the new approach to incentives aligns the interests of our assessment.
We believe that we have succeeded been incorporated shareholders with those of the top 200 leaders in QinetiQ.
in developing arrangements which will reward both into the incentive A number of checks and balances have been incorporated short-term performance and sustained, long-term into the incentive arrangements to ensure that they will shareholder value.
arrangements to not reward short-term performance which is not ensure that they will sustained over the longer term.
Employee engagement and reward not reward short-term All QinetiQs employees are key to the delivery of the The key features of the arrangements which prevent strategy.
The CEO and the Group HR Director have performance which this are: introduced regular consultations with our Employee is not sustained over Engagement Group on reward matters including the longer-term.
The measurement of multi-year performance in Executive Directors pay.
I have met the Chair of respect of shares awarded under the Bonus Banking the Employee Engagement Group and it is our Plan through the annual forfeiture mechanism: intention to meet again prior to the AGM and at appropriate intervals thereafter.
The mix of cash and shares awarded in the year is heavily weighted towards shares circa 70% equity Conclusion at maximum : The Committee is presenting a revised Remuneration The long-term performance underpin which will Policy for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM and determine whether the Deferred Share Plan shares is included in full on pages 72-81.
It is also available to vest in full at the end of three years: view in full on the Companys website www.
The additional holding period in respect of the Further details on the new Deferred Share Plan Element Deferred Share Plan shares which may only be B are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting traded five years after the initial award: together with a summary description of the Plans terms The stretch of the performance targets so the and conditions.
performance targets for the Deferred Share Plan are based on our strategic growth plan: I hope that we can rely on your vote in favour of the Annual Report on Remuneration and Remuneration The transparent disclosure of the performance Policy at the AGM on 19 July 2017.
I am very grateful measures and targets: and for the time shareholders and their representative Increased share ownership requirements.
bodies have given us throughout the consultation process.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of In summary, the proposed incentive arrangement this report, I would be happy to hear from you.
You comprise two elements: the existing Bonus Banking may contact me through Jon Messent, Company Plan Element A and a new Deferred Share Plan Secretary and Group General Counsel.
Element B which replaces the Performance Share Plan.
The Bonus Banking Plan Element A targets are Michael Harper based on the annual budget whilst the Deferred Share Remuneration Committee Chairman Plan Element B targets are based on strategic growth 25 May 2017 measures.
For 2018, the performance measure for the Deferred Share Plan Element B is based on improving underlying profit over the previous years outturn with a stretching maximum.
We are aware that the use of operational financial measures and non-financial measures which drive long-term shareholder value is somewhat different from the more standard measures such as Earnings 70 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued At a glance How have we performed against our corporate performance objectives?...
a year of immense Embedding our strategy, in tandem with transforming our Company through reorganisation and people development, has seen a year of immense change delivered with pace and determination across the Group.
change delivered with pace and The diverse challenges and opportunities we face in our markets, our unique heritage, and the deep transformation determination... our organisation is working through, means that we continue to evolve our strategy in a very deliberate way.
Exceeding targets on orders and achieving stretch on operating profit and cash flow is regarded by the Committee as a good result in such a challenging year.
The Committee believe that incentivising strategic and operational objectives, which support the financial KPIs, has ensured the Company has progressed both in terms of what was delivered but also how it was delivered.
The collective objectives have seen the CEO, supported by an engaged Executive Committee and Leadership Community, lead on communicating our vision and purpose.
The CEO has been visible to both customers and employees alike and he has been a personal sponsor of the Leadership Development Programme which every member of the Executive Committee and Leadership Community has undertaken with hugely positive results.
The CEO has also worked very closely with the Board in developing an Integrated Strategic Business Plan which provides the challenge and direction over the next five years.
We set five collective objectives, summarised below, based on securing contracts in certain markets and transforming the organisation.
Of the five collective objectives, two were achieved in full, two partially achieved and one not achieved.
The Group Chairman takes responsibility for setting the personal objectives of the CEO and the two critical objectives, summarised below, relate to the development of the five-year Integrated Strategic Business Plan and Leadership Development.
The Board is pleased with the excellent progress made against these two objectives.
The following table highlights the performance and remuneration outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2017 with more detail provided in Part 3 of the Remuneration Report.
Actual performance % of maximum Target Stretch excluding reward Annual Incentive Weighting % performance performance acquisitions received QinetiQ orders 25 600.0m 750.0m 671.4m 73.8% QinetiQ underlying operating profit 25 105.0m 115.0m 115.1m 100.0% QinetiQ underlying operating cash flow Excluding LTPA and MSCA capital Expenditure 25 80.0m 96.0m 100.0m 100.0% Collective Objectives: Strategic Lead and modernise the UK Defence Test & Evaluation Enterprise Build the Company internationally 12.5 60% 100% 65% 56.3% Innovate for customer advantage Operational Transformation programme Organisation development CEO Personal Objectives: Growth: Develop a five-year Integrated Strategic Business Plan 12.5 60% 100% 90% 87.5% Leadership: Develop Leadership Community competence David Smith did not participate in the 2017 Bonus Banking Plan following his recruitment on 1 March 2017.
Long-term incentive Neither of the Executive Directors were participants in the Performance Share Plan awards granted in 2014 and therefore no long-term incentives with a performance period to 31 March 2017 are due to vest for the Executive Directors.
Definitions of the Groups Alternative performance measures can be found in the glossary on page 151.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 71 Share price growth How does reward earned in 2017 relate How does the reward earned in 2017 align to Company performance?
Underlying EPS has grown by 11.0% in 2017 against a CEO remuneration is above target performance and 22.4% 10.6% reported increase in CEO annual variable reward.
in line with our financial results achieved in challenging over the last 12 months The CEOs 2016 annual variable reward was pro-rated operating conditions.
The Bonus Banking Plan annual for his hire date of 27 April 2015 therefore a like-for-like contribution for 2017 is 1,104,687, half of which is annual comparison is 2.7%.
Results for 2017 represent treated as equity.
a strong alignment between performance and reward over the last 12 months.
CEO 000 2017 Actual 1,105 EPS 18.1p Minimum 714 714 2016 Full Year Equivalent 1,076 EPS 16.3p Target 714 320 632 1,666 2016 Actual 999 EPS 16.3p Maximum 714 639 1,776 3,129 Actual 714 552.5 552.5 1,819 Bonus Banking Plan Annual Contribution 000 Fixed The share price has grown by 22.4% over the last Linked to Annual Performance 12 months benefiting both shareholders and Bonus Linked to Performance over more than 1 year Banking Plan participants alike.
The Bonus Banking Plan annual contribution is added to the existing pool.
Executive Director Shareholding The following charts show the relatively small The pool has grown in value reflecting the growth in shareholdings of both Executive Directors due to share price, building close alignment between Executive their short length of service.
One of the objectives of Directors and shareholders.
Half of the restated pool is the new Incentive Plan is to facilitate the rapid build-up paid as cash with the remaining half deferred until the of material shareholdings by the Executive Directors end of 2018 when it will be paid in shares.
The following provided performance is delivered.
chart summarises the 2017 breakdown and detailed calculations are provided on page 87.
CEO shareholding as a percentage of salary Shareholding requirement 300 2017 Bonus Banking Pool Build-Up 538 60 12 1,105 1,715 Value of beneficially Owned 2017 Bonus Banking Pool Cash 10 shares & Deferred shares Payment and Retained Equity Value 857.5 857.5 1,715 Value of Conditional Shares Subject to performance conditions 399 Bonus Banking Pool Opening Equity Value 000 Increase in Equity Value 000 Dividend Equivalent Payment 000 CFO shareholding as a percentage of salary Bonus Banking Pool Annual Contribution 000 Shareholding requirement 200 2017 Annual Payment 000 Value of Beneficially Owned Bonus Banking Pool Closing Equity Value 000 0 shares & Deferred shares Value of Conditional Shares Subject to performance conditions 0 Principles of the proposed Remuneration Policy Incentivising sustained performance and growth, the key policy principles are highlighted below.
Continuity and effectiveness Performance related reward Alignment Robust and transparent Pay mix focuses on variable Reflecting shareholder value Base governance with a clear link to Incentives Incentives pay and correlates reward creation, incentives retain and salary pay conditions across the Group.
opportunity with business lock-in new executive team by performance.
In turn maximising incentivising what is right for the Clear link to growth and shareholder value through Company while ensuring quick transformation underpinned Incentives measurement in terms of alignment through the build-up by substantial deferral in equity financial and non-financial KPIs.
and retention of earned equity.
and risk of forfeiture ensuring a focus on long-term Alignment of the new executive Shareholding sustainable performance.
team with the shareholder requirements experience over the period.
Rewarding long-term sustainable value while still driving immediate business objectives.
72 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 2: Remuneration Policy Introduction Deferred Share Plan Element B to be used in place The policy will be put The Directors Remuneration Policy was last approved of the current Performance Share Plan maximum in 2014 and the Company therefore seeks approval opportunity is reduced from 200% current maximum forward for binding for the new policy at the AGM on 19 July 2017. granted to CEO in 2016 for two years to 125% vote at the AGM on of salary.
19 July 2017 and Scope of policy The policy applies to Executive Directors, the Group Awards under the Deferred Share Plan Element B will be effective Chairman and Non-executive Directors.
Reference will be earned based on challenging strategic financial from that date.
may also be made to the Executive Committee who, growth objectives set by the Committee each year in line while not Directors, fall within the Committees remit, with the Companys Integrated Strategic Business Plan.
although the policy is not binding for these individuals.
Shares earned under the Deferred Share Plan Element Duration of policy B are subject to a three-year vesting period, during The policy will be put forward for binding vote at the which the participant must remain employed by the AGM on 19 July 2017 and will be effective from that Company, and also cannot be sold for five years from date.
The Policy is expected to remain in effect until the date of award irrespective of employment status.
The rationale for the change to incentive provision is to: Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of provide a simple cohesive design, that incentivises policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may delivery of the Integrated Strategic Business Plan: also exercise operational and administrative discretions recognise that the Integrated Strategic Business under relevant plan rules as set out in those rules.
In Plan will evolve, therefore providing the Board with addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend the opportunity to manage the incentives annually the Remuneration Policy with regard to minor or to ensure the evolution continues to be incentivised: administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion reward participants as shareholders by the build-up of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await of a long-term retained shareholding: and shareholder approval and commits to communicating ensure a focus on long-term sustainable performance to shareholders when discretion is used.
through the deferral in equity.
Based on the maximum incentive opportunity of 325%, half of the Bonus Key changes in the Directors Remuneration Policy Banking Plan Element A opportunity 100% and all The Committee conducted an extensive review of of the Deferred Share Plan Element B opportunity the Remuneration Policy taking into account the 125% is treated as equity.
following factors: There will be an increase in minimum shareholding The Company vision-led strategy launched at the requirement for the CEO to 300% of salary previously beginning of FY17 aiming to establish the conditions 200% of salary and for the CFO 200% of salary for growth: previously 150% of salary.
This increases the The new executive team, including both Executive alignment of Executive Directors remuneration Directors and Executive Committee members, with shareholder value.
established to deliver the strategy: and The current suitability of the incentive arrangements The pension contribution for any new Executive Director for the Group incorporating insight from will be reduced to a maximum of 15% of salary.
The our Leadership Community and Employee change will bring pension provision for Executive Engagement Group.
Directors more closely in line with the provision for the broader employee base.
This has resulted in the Committee proposing to introduce new incentive arrangements collectively Otherwise, the operation of the policy is in line with the Incentive Plan, if approved by shareholders, made the previous policy in force.
up of two elements: Bonus Banking Plan Element A with no change to the current terms and conditions other than a reduction in the maximum opportunity from 225% to 200% of salary QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 73 Executive Directors Remuneration Policy The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy is put forward for approval at the AGM on 19 July 2017.
This policy covers the three year period commencing 1 April 2017 and complies with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounting and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity Base salary To attract and retain the An Executive Directors basic salary is set on Typically, the base salaries of Executive Directors in talent needed to lead appointment and reviewed annually or when post at the start of the policy period and who remain our business.
there is a change in position or responsibility.
in the same role throughout the policy period will be increased by a similar percentage to the average When determining an appropriate level of salary, annual percentage increase in salaries of all other the Committee considers: employees in the Group.
The exceptions to this rule may be where: general salary rises to employees: remuneration practices within the Group: an individual is below market level and a decision any change in scope, role and responsibilities: is taken to increase base pay to reflect proven the general performance of the Group: competence in the role: or the experience of the relevant Director: there is a material increase in scope or the economic environment: and responsibility to the Executive Directors role.
when the Committee determines a benchmarking exercise is appropriate salaries The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels within the ranges paid by the are positioned in line with companies of a similar companies in the comparator groups size to QinetiQ and validated against other companies used for remuneration benchmarking.
in the industry, so that they are competitive against the market.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set The Committee intends to review the comparators below the targeted policy level until they become periodically and may add or remove companies from established in their role.
In such cases subsequent the group as it considers appropriate.
Any changes increases in salary may be higher than the general to the comparator groups will be set out in the rises for employees until the target positioning section headed Implementation of Remuneration is achieved.
Policy, in the following financial year.
Pension To ensure that Executive The Company provides a pension contribution The maximum policy pension contribution allowance Directors total remuneration allowance in line with practice relative to its will be reduced to 20% for existing Executive remains attractive and comparators to enable the Company to recruit Directors in line with current provision: however, competitive.
and retain Executive Directors with the experience any new Executive Directors will have a maximum and expertise to deliver the Groups strategy.
This allowance will be a non-consolidated allowance The Company will set out in the section headed and will not impact any incentive calculations.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year the pension contributions for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
Benefits To ensure that Executive Benefits include car allowance, health insurance, life The maximum is the cost of providing the Directors total remuneration assurance, income protection and membership of the relevant benefits.
remains attractive and Groups employee Share Incentive Plan which is open competitive.
to all UK employees the Executive Directors will also be eligible to participate in any other all employee plan operated by the Company from time to time.
The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the benefits provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benefits may therefore be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
74 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 2: Remuneration Policy continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity Incentive Plan The Incentive Plan provides An award under the Incentive Plan is subject Maximum 325% of salary 200% of salary under a significant incentive to the to satisfying financial and strategic operational Element A and 125% of salary under Element B.
Executive Directors linked performance personal performance conditions and to achievement of delivering targets measured over a period of one financial year.
Bonus Banking Plan Element A goals that are closely aligned Maximum 200% of salary.
with the Companys strategy A minimum of 50% of the incentive shall be based Target 80%120% of salary.
and the creation of value for on financial performance measures.
The Incentive Plan consists of two elements Deferred Share Plan Element B In particular, the Incentive Element A and Element B.
Plan supports the Target 30%-75% of salary.
Companys objectives by: Bonus Banking Plan Element A.
Annual Company Threshold 0% of salary.
allowing the setting of contributions will be earned based on the satisfaction of annual targets based on the performance conditions.
Contributions will be made the businesses strategic for three years with payments made over four years.
50% objectives at that time, of the value of a participants bonus account will be paid meaning that a wider out annually for three years with 100% of the residual range of performance value paid out at the end of year four.
50% of the unpaid metrics can be used that balance of a participants bonus account will be at risk are relevant and suitably of annual forfeiture.
stretching whilst also providing sufficient Deferred Share Plan Element B.
Deferred incentive linked to share-based element earned based on the potential to be satisfaction of pre-grant annual performance achievable: and assessment, which is subject to a three-year vesting providing substantial period and a further two-year holding period.
deferral in shares and A minimum 50% Remuneration Committee have ongoing adjustment by discretion to increase subject to performance of the requiring a threshold level unvested award will be at risk forfeiture after three years.
of performance to be achieved during the Malus and clawback provision apply to the Incentive deferral period.
deferred in shares are also forfeitable on a directors The Committee has discretion to provide dividend voluntary cessation of equivalents on Element A and Element B shares.
employment which provides an effective The Committee is of the opinion that given the lock-in.
commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for the incentive, disclosing precise targets for the Incentive Plan in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
Targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the annual performance period so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the Plan.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 75 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity Incentive Plan continued In exceptional circumstances the Committee retains the discretion to: Change the performance measures and targets and the weighting attached to the performance measures and targets part way through a performance year if there is a significant and material event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate: for example adjustments for: Acquisitions and disposals: Restructuring costs: Business structure changes: Restated corporate allocations: Foreign currency exchange rates: and Board approved budget adjustments.
Make downward or upward adjustments to the amount of incentive earned resulting from the application of the performance measures, if the Committee believe that the incentive outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Any adjustments or discretion applied by the Committee will be fully disclosed in the following years Directors remuneration report.
Minimum shareholding To align Executive Directors Executives have five years to accumulate the The Committee has adopted formal shareholding requirements interests with those of required shareholding.
requirements that will encourage the Executive shareholders through the Directors to build up over a five-year period and build-up and retention 300% of base salary for the CEO.
then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent of a personal holding to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these in QinetiQ shares.
200% of base salary for the CFO.
guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
In addition, Executive Directors will be required to retain 50% of the post-tax amount of vested shares from the Company incentive plans until the minimum shareholding requirement is met and maintained.
The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
Elements of existing policy that will continue to apply Element Purpose and Link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity Bonus Banking Plan To align Executive Directors The outstanding awards under the Bonus Banking Bonus Banking Plan Number of shares in and Performance interests with those of Plan and PSP will continue to form part of the participants bonus pool as at 31 March 2017.
Performance Share Plan Number of shares Details on how these plans operate can be found outstanding as detailed in this report.
in the Directors remuneration report for the year of grant.
These plans vest on terms set out in the Plan rules which have previously been approved by shareholders.
76 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 2: Remuneration Policy continued Notes to the policy tables Performance measures and targets The performance measures and targets, financial and non-financial, are determined annually based on the Companys strategy.
The Committee is of the opinion that the specific performance targets for the Incentive Plan are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them.
The targets will be disclosed after the end of the relevant financial year in that years remuneration report.
However, the Committee is of the opinion that certain elements of the collective objectives may remain commercially sensitive beyond the end of the relevant financial year and will therefore be disclosed once they cease to be commercially sensitive which is anticipated to be within two years of the relevant financial year.
Remuneration policy for all employees All employee of QinetiQ are entitled to base salary, benefits and pension.
The link between performance and reward cascades down from the Executive incentive plans with the Leadership and Business Development Communities typically invited to participate in the Companys formal annual incentive arrangements.
All other employees may receive a discretionary bonus based on Company and individual performance.
Participation in long-term incentive plans is available to Executive Directors, Executive Committee members, Leadership Community and selected other employees.
Share ownership is further encouraged via the QinetiQ Share Incentive Plan.
Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the current Executive Directors.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits and pension These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Incentive Plan Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 325% of salary.
Maximum variable remuneration The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted is 325% of salary excluding any buy-outs.
Buy Out of incentives forfeited on Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment cessation of employment justifies the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and Any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value Lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plan.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plan, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive Director is required to relocate or spend significant time away from their normal residence, the Company may provide one-off compensation to reflect the cost of relocation for the Executive Director.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences housing allowance and schooling.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 77 Loss of office and change of control policy When determining any loss of office payment for a departing Director the Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company while complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Remuneration element Approach Application of Committee discretion Salary and In the event of termination by the Company, The Company has discretion to make a lump sum benefits there will be no compensation for loss of office payment in lieu.
due to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be a maximum of 12 months salary.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary and benefits that the Executive Director would have received if still in employment with the Company.
These will be paid over the notice period.
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within a twelve month period of their departure from the Company.
Pension Pension contributions or payments in lieu of The Company has discretion to make a lump sum pension contribution will be made during the payment in lieu.
Bonus Banking For the year of cessation For the year of cessation Plan Element A Good leavers: Performance conditions will Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has of the Incentive be measured at the measurement date.
The the following elements of discretion: Plan Company bonus contribution will normally To determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
be pro-rated for the period worked during It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion the financial year.
in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and Other leavers: No Company bonus contribution To determine whether to pro-rate the Company bonus payable for year of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the Remuneration Deferred balances in participants Committees intention to only use discretion to not pro-rate Plan Account in circumstances where there is an appropriate business Good leavers: The balance in the participants case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Plan account will be payable on cessation of employment.
Deferred balances in participants Plan Account Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has Other leavers: The balance in the Participants the following elements of discretion: Plan account will be forfeited on cessation To determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
is the Remuneration Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: To determine whether the payment of the balance of the participants Plan Account should be in cash or shares or a combination of both: To determine whether to pro-rate the balance of the participants Plan Account payable on cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directorss departure.
78 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 2: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration element Approach Application of Committee discretion Bonus Banking For the year of the change of control For the year of the change of control Plan Element A Performance conditions will be measured Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has the of the Incentive at the date of the change of control.
The following element of discretion: Plan change Company bonus contribution will normally to pro-rate the Company bonus contribution to time.
of control be pro-rated to the date of the change The Remuneration Committees normal policy is of control.
that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to only use discretion to Deferred balances in participants not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an Plan Account appropriate business case which will be explained The balance in the participants Plan Account in full to shareholders.
will be payable on the change of control.
Deferred balances in participants Plan Account Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine whether the payment of the balance of the participants Plan Account should be in cash or shares or a combination of both: to determine whether to pro-rate the balance of the participants Plan Account payable on change of control.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether to pro-rate based on the circumstances of change of control.
Deferred Share For the year of cessation For the year of cessation Plan Element B Good leavers: Performance conditions will Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has the of the Incentive be measured at the measurement date.
The following elements of discretion: Plan cessation Deferred Share Plan Element B award will to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
of employment normally be pro-rated for the period worked It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion during the financial year.
in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: Other leavers: No Deferred Share Plan to determine whether to pro-rate the Company award Element B award for year of cessation.
It is the Remuneration Subsisting Element B awards Committees intention to only use discretion to not Good leavers: Deferred Share Plan Element B pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate awards will vest on their original vesting dates business case which will be explained in full to and remain subject to the sale restrictions.
shareholders: and to determine whether the Deferred Share Plan Element Other leavers: Deferred Share Plan Element B B award will vest on the date of cessation or the awards will be forfeited on cessation of original vesting date.
The Remuneration Committee will employment.
make its determination based amongst other factors on the reason for the cessation of employment: and to determine whether to provide the Deferred Share Plan Element B award in the form of cash or shares.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 79 Remuneration element Approach Application of Committee discretion Deferred Share Subsisting Deferred Share Plan Element B awards Plan Element B Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has the of the Incentive following elements of discretion: Plan cessation To determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
of employment It is the Remuneration Committees intention to only continued use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: To determine whether to pro-rate the Deferred Share Plan Element B award to the date of cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to only use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: To determine whether the Deferred Share Plan Element B award will vest on the date of cessation or the original vesting date.
The Remuneration Committee will make its determination based amongst other factors on the reason for the cessation of employment.
Deferred Share For the year of the change of control For the year of the change of control Plan Element B Performance conditions will be measured at Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has the of the Incentive the date of the change of control.
The Element following element of discretion: Plan Change B award will normally be pro-rated to the date To determine whether to pro-rate the Deferred Share of Control of the change of control.
Plan Element B award to time.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy Subsisting Element B awards is that it will pro-rate for time.
It is the Remuneration The awards will vest on the date of the Committees intention to only use discretion to not change of control and the sale restrictions pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate will fall away.
business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Subsisting Deferred Share Plan Element B awards Discretion: the Remuneration Committee has the following elements of discretion: To determine whether the satisfaction of Deferred Share Plan Element B awards should be in cash or shares or a combination of both: and To determine whether to pro-rate Deferred Share Plan Element B awards on change of control.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions None.
obligations other than those set out above agreed that could impact quantum of the payment.
A good leaver is a person whose cessation of employment is for one of the following reasons: Death: Ill-health: Injury or disability: Redundancy: Retirement: Employing company ceasing to be a Group company: Transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and Where the person is designated a good leaver at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
A person who ceases employment in circumstances other than those set out above is designated as an other leaver.
80 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 2: Remuneration Policy continued Malus and clawback Malus provisions apply to both the Bonus Banking Plan Element A and the Deferred Share Plan Element B. Malus is the adjustment of Element A bonus contributions or the balance in a participants bonus account or unvested Deferred Share Plan Element B awards because of the occurrence of one or more circumstances.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments made under the Bonus Banking Plan Element A or vested Deferred Share Plan Element B awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances.
Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants payment under the Deferred Share Plan Element A or Deferred Share Plan Element B award and may be effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: Discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Group company: The assessment of any performance condition or condition in respect of a payment or award under the Incentive Plan was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: The discovery that any information used to determine the Bonus Banking Plan Element A or Deferred Share Plan Element B award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: Action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: or Events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the participant.
The following table sets out the periods during which malus and clawback may be effected.
Bonus Banking Plan Element A Deferred Share Plan Element B Malus Up to the date of a payment.
Any time prior to vesting.
Clawback Three years post the date of any payment.
Three years from the date of vesting.
Pay and performance scenario analysis The proposed Executive Remuneration Policy is illustrated in the following charts showing what each Director could expect to receive in FY18 under different performance scenarios, based on the following definitions: Linked to Linked to performance Scenario Fixed annual performance over more than 1 year Stretch 50% of Element A Opportunity 50% of Element A opportunity 100% of salary 100% of salary FY18 base salary 50% of Element B 62.5% of salary 50% of Element B 62.5% of salary Car allowance Target 25% of Element A opportunity 25% of Element A opportunity Pension allowance 50% of salary 50% of salary Benefits 17.5% of Element B 21.875% of salary 17.5% of Element B 21.875% of salary Minimum No variable pay No variable pay CEO 000 CFO 000 Stretch 28% 36% 36% 2,587 Stretch 28% 36% 36% 1,984 Target Target 46% 27% 27% 1,547 46% 27% 27% 1,187 Minimum 100% 722 Minimum 100% 554 Fixed Fixed Linked to annual performance Linked to annual performance Linked to performance over more than 1 year Linked to performance over more than 1 year Based on the maximum incentive opportunity of 325%, half of the Bonus Banking Plan Element A opportunity 100% and all of the Deferred Share Plan Element B opportunity 125% is treated as equity.
At both target and stretch performance 69% of variable pay is treated as equity.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 81 Policy for Non-executive Directors The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Maximum opportunity Non-executive Directors Fees To attract and retain The Executive Directors and the Group Chairman are responsible The fees for Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors of for setting the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
and the Group Chairman are broadly the calibre required to assist The Board, minus the Chairman, is responsible for setting the set at a competitive level against the the Company in setting and Chairmans fees.
Non-executive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional In general the level of fee increase for fees for chairmanship of committees, and the Company retains the Non-executive Directors and the the flexibility to pay fees for the membership of committees.
Group Chairman will be set taking The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for account of any change in responsibility membership of committees.
and the general rise in salaries across employees.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the The Company will pay reasonable Executive Directors.
expenses incurred by the Non-executive Directors and Group Chairman and may An annual accommodation allowance may be payable to the settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Group Chairman and as deemed appropriate for individuals who are not UK resident.
Excluding the Group Chairman, an additional fee is payable to those Non-executive Directors attending meetings outside of their country of residence.
Non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Consideration of shareholder and employee views The Chair of the Committee and the Group Chairman consult with key shareholders on remuneration matters from time to time, and particularly where changes to the Remuneration Policy are under consideration.
The Chair reports any concerns expressed by shareholders to the Committee and these are taken into account as the Committee develops and implements its policy.
Any comments received from shareholders outside these consultation exercises are also reported to the Committee, and the Committee takes account of general views on remuneration expressed by shareholders or representative bodies.
The Committee consulted with its principal shareholders in relation to the proposal to revise the policy and took into account views expressed during the consultation when agreeing the final design.
The Remuneration Committee is grateful for shareholders comments and engagement during the consultation process.
At the end of this process, the Remuneration Committee was pleased that the majority of the shareholders consulted expressed support for the policy.
The Committee has not formally consulted with employees and has not used any specific all-employee comparison metrics in forming this policy.
However, the Committee has regularly consulted with the Companys Employee Engagement Group on other reward matters.
82 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction The Remuneration Committee presents the Annual Remuneration Report showing how the Remuneration Policy has been implemented for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Committee presents the Annual Report on Remuneration to shareholders at the AGM on 19 July 2017.
This report was compiled in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013 as well as the Companies Act 2006.
Remuneration Committee Structure The Committee is chaired by Michael Harper, and is composed of the members set out on page 68.
Effectiveness review In 2017, the effectiveness review was undertaken internally, and it rated the effectiveness of the Committee highly overall.
Considerations for 2017 include continuing the productive dialogue with the Executive team and, subject to policy approval, ensuring incentive targets are stretching enough in the context of the strategy, as it plays out.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board.
The Committee comprises at least three members not counting the Group Chairman, all of whom are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Group Chairman of the Board also serves on the Committee as an additional member as he was considered independent on appointment as Chairman.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, external advisors and other internal advisors such as the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Human Resources Director are invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Board appoints the Committee Chairman who is an independent, Non-executive Director.
In the absence of the Committee Chairman and or an appointed deputy, the remaining members present shall elect one of themselves to chair the meeting who would qualify under these terms of reference to be appointed to that position by the Board.
The Chairman of the Board is not permitted to be Chairman of the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the QinetiQ website www.
Service Contracts Letters of Appointment The Companys policy is that Executive Directors have rolling contracts which are terminable by either party giving 12 months notice.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed under letters of appointment.
All service contracts and letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Non-executive Directors typically serve two three-year terms but may be invited by the Board to serve for an additional period see table in the Nominations Committee report on page 53.
84.66% 96.72% 3.28% 15.34% QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 83 Non-executive Director Date appointed Arrangement Notice period Lynn Brubaker 27 January 2016 Initial term of three years from date of appointment until the conclusion of the Annual General 1 Month Meeting approximately three years from that date, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Admiral Sir James 10 April 2010 Initial term of three years from date of appointment, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Burnell-Nugent Mark Elliott 01 June 2009 Initial term of three years from date of appointment, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Michael Harper 22 November 2011 Initial term of three years from date of appointment, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Ian Mason 04 June 2014 Initial term of three years from date of appointment until the conclusion of the Annual General 1 Month Meeting approximately three years from that date, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Paul Murray 25 October 2010 Initial term of three years from date of appointment, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Susan Searle 14 March 2014 Initial term of three years from date of appointment until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting approximately three years from that date, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
David Smith 01 March 2017 Service Contract 12 Months Steve Wadey 27 April 2015 Service Contract 12 Months The Committee has appointed PwC, an independent firm of remuneration consultants, to provide advice on market practice, corporate governance and institutional stakeholder views.
Fees paid during the year for these services were 111,500 which included advice relating to the policy and shareholder consultation.
PwC provided the following additional services during the year: Implementation support for the Company on Executive reward plans: Consultancy and advice to Group Tax: and Consultancy and advice in relation to Group Pensions.
The Committee is satisfied the scale and nature of this work does not impact on the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC.
Following the appointment of PwC as Independent Auditor the Committee can no longer retain PwC as advisors.
The Committee undertook a thorough review and has appointed FIT Remuneration Consultants as advisors from 1 April 2017.
Statement of voting Remuneration Report 2016 Votes for 404,652,873 96.72% Votes against 13,714,402 3.28% Total votes cast 418,367,275 71.86% share capital Abstained 1,781,755 Remuneration Policy 2014 Votes for 422,740,088 84.66% Votes against 76,602,719 15.34% Total votes cast 499,342,807 76.68% share capital Abstained 4,877,598 As in previous years, details on the voting on all resolutions at the 2017 AGM will be announced via the RNS and posted on the QinetiQ website following the AGM.
84 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Remuneration Committee meetings, activities and decisions 2017 Executive Directors changes during 2017 David Mellors CFO resigned from the Company on 31 December 2016 and was replaced by David Smith on 1 March 2017.
Following David Mellors decision to leave the Committee agreed that all shares subject to performance conditions would lapse and that there would be no annual variable reward paid under the Bonus Banking Plan.
However, given that David Mellors had built up equity in the Bonus Banking Plan when he made a positive contribution to stabilising the business through CEO change and transition to his successor, the Committee felt it was important that he stay incentivised during his notice period, therefore the decision was taken for David to remain eligible to receive the balance of his accrued and earned Bonus Banking Plan account.
Details can be found on page 87.
Performance condition adjustments during 2017 In March 2015 the Committee agreed a set of adjustment principles to enable consistent and fair review in the event of an accounting decision impacting on incentives.
Underlying Operating Profit in 2017 included a credit of 5.2m following the LTPA contract amendment in December 2016.
The contract amendment will see QinetiQ procure a new fleet of aircraft for the Empire Test Pilots School and QinetiQ is, as a result, released from the commitment to fulfill the previously expected level of servicing obligations of the existing fleet.
The Committee, following review with the Audit Committee, viewed this as neutral for the purposes of remuneration as the original charges reduced profit, and therefore incentive outturns, in prior years.
As in 2015 and 2016, the Committee again adjusted the performance conditions for the Performance Share Plan and Deferred Annual Bonus Matching Plan to reflect continuing operations and share buyback.
Neither Executive Director participated in the long-term incentives impacted by these changes owing to their respective hire dates with only the CEO participating in the annual incentive.
The annual incentive paid to the CEO was 1,104,687 86.4% of maximum as detailed on page 86.
The following table provides a summary of all the key activities during the year.
There was full attendance at each meeting except for March 2017 when Ian Mason was unable to be present.
Base salary Incentives Equity Governance Resourcing May 2016 Executive FY16 final 2013 PSP DAB Approve Directors Iain Farley Remuneration results vesting approval Remuneration Report recruitment market review July 2016 Executive Director and Shareholder David Mellors Executive Committee feedback on Directors resignation salary review Remuneration Report November 2016 Trends in Executive FY17 half Review of Draft Executive David Smith Remuneration year forecast Executive Team Remuneration Policy recruitment Non-executive Group Draft Executive shareholdings review Chairman fees incentive design January 2017 Shareholder Miles Adcock consultation resignation arrangements March 2017 FY17 provisional 2014 PSP DAB Draft Directors results provisional vesting Remuneration Report FY18 target Review of Committee setting remit and effectiveness 25% 12.5% 25% 12.5% QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 85 Executive Director single figure remuneration The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Executive Director remuneration is shown as a single figure to provide an annual comparison between the actual remuneration for the performance year ended 31 March 2017 and the preceding year.
Element of remuneration 000 Salary Fees Benefits Annual Incentives Long-Term Incentives Pension Single Figure 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Director 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Steve Wadey 568 520 33 31 1,105 999 113 104 1,819 1,654 David Mellors 332 456 21 26 645 850 66 91 1,064 1,423 David Smith 40 3 15 58 Additional supporting information for each performance measures and personal objectives Executive Director were weighted at 80% 20% of the annual incentive To support the single figure, this section documents opportunity.
each element of remuneration and how the figure was calculated for the performance year ended 31 March 2017.
The CEO CFO were measured against the targets as shown below: Salary fees The increase in the CEOs base salary reflects his % of base salary first full year in post and a 2.5% 14,000 per annum increase effective from 1 July 2016, in line with the typical 2016 salary increase across the Group.
The new CFO has commenced employment on the same base salary as his predecessor 440,000.
Benefits Benefits comprise of car allowance, healthcare, life assurance and income protection Annual incentive For the year ended 31 March 2017 achievement of on-target performance provides a payment equal to 112.5% of base salary, rising on a linear scale to 225% of base salary for achievement of stretch performance.
Orders Underlying Operating Profit For FY17 and FY16, the scheme begins to pay out Underlying Cash Flow once threshold performance measures have been Collective Objectives achieved.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, financial Personal Objectives performance measures make up 75% of the annual incentive opportunity with collective objectives and personal objectives accounting for the remaining 25%.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, financial 25% 86 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration continued The auditor is required to report on the information in this table which summarises the key steps in the calculation of the annual incentive.
Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 157.
Actual % of maximum Weighting excluding reward Plan CEO CFO financial performance measures % Threshold Target Stretch acquisitions achieved contribution Orders 25 540.0m 600.0m 750.0m 671.4m 73.8 235,846 Underlying operating profit 25 95.0m 105.0m 115.0m 115.1m 100.0 319,574 Underlying cash flow Excluding LTPA and MSCA Capital Expenditure 25 72.0m 80.0m 96.0m 100.0m 100.0 319,754 Collective objectives 12.5 40% 60% 100% 65% 56.3 89,880 CEO personal objectives 12.5 40% 60% 100% 90% 87.5 139,813 Overall result 86.4 1,104,687 Collective Objectives At the beginning of the performance period five collective objectives were set by the Remuneration Committee and communicated to the Executive Directors, Executive Committee and Leadership Community.
Three of the objectives focus on delivering our strategy and the remaining two focused on operational transformation so that we are organised effectively to succeed.
Lead and modernise the UK Defence Test & Evaluation enterprise The objective provided a focus on securing agreements for the modernisation of Boscombe Down and provision of future Test and Evaluation needs with key prime contractors.
The objective was partially met.
Build the Company internationally Significant progress was made, due to circumstances outside our control, the specifics of the objective were not delivered but remain live and therefore continue to be commercially sensitive and not disclosed.
The objective was judged to be not delivered.
Innovate for customer advantage The objective provided a focus on investing in new product capability opportunities.
A number of these delivered contracts during the year but remain commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
The objective was measured as partially met.
Transformation programme The objective provided a focus on generating a five-year Integrated Strategic Business Plan and delivering recurring savings of 20m for future growth investment.
The objective was successfully met.
Organisation development The objective focussed on establishing a matrix organisation, designed to support our new business model and strategy, and completion of the Leadership Development Programme for over 200 of our senior leaders.
Personal objectives At the beginning of the performance period two personal objectives were set by the Group Chairman and communicated to the CEO.
Growth The objective provided a focus on developing a five-year business plan, generating a pipeline of potential acquisitions and building shareholder confidence.
The five-year plan has been approved by the Board and the pipeline for potential acquisitions has already produced two successes via QinetiQ Target Systems and RubiKon Group Pty Limited.
Positive shareholder feedback has shown that confidence is growing therefore the objective is judged to have been met.
Leadership The objective provided a focus on forming the business leadership into an inspired, self-motivated winning group.
Progress was to be shared with the Board at two reviews incorporating a clear focus on succession planning.
Through organisation redesign, focused recruitment and development interventions and culture programmes the progress made has been positively received by the Board.
The objective is judged to have been met.
The Bonus Banking Plan operates as follows: The Plan operates on a fixed four-year cycle.
Year one of the Plan commenced on 1 April 2014, year two commenced 1 April 2015, year three commenced 1 April 2016, and year four commenced on 1 April 2017.
Performance conditions are set at the beginning of each Plan year.
At the end of each of the first three Plan years the performance against targets is assessed and the level of the incentive earned is determined and paid into the Plan account.
At the end of each of the first three Plan years, 50% of the account balance will be paid and the balance retained and held in the Plan as notional shares.
At the end of the fourth year, any remaining balance in the Plan account is paid out in shares.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 87 The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The measurement date for the CEO is 31 March 2017 and the Bonus Banking Plan annual contribution for 2017 is as reported in the single figure.
Through the operation of the Plan the CEO received a cash payment of 857,475.
The CEO retains 305,913 notional shares in his plan account.
Notional shares Bonus Notional shares on account at 30 Day average Share value pool total Bonus pool on account beginning of share price as at Bonus plan Dividend value as at Gross cash total value at beginning plan year 3 as at measurement contribution equivalent measurement payment for following of plan year 4 31 March measurement date for plan year 3 payment date plan year 3 cash payment 31 March 2016 Date 5.8p 2017 CEO 213,304 2.803 597,891 1,104,687 12,372 1,714,950 857,475 857,475 305,913 CFO 311,153 2.523 785,163 785,163 785,163 David Mellors resignation measurement date 31 December 2016 Following David Mellors resignation, he was ineligible to receive the annual contribution due from the Bonus Banking Plan.
However he retained the balance in his Bonus Banking Account.
Forfeiture The CEO retained notional shares in his Plan account of which 50% were subject to forfeiture.
Forfeiture would have been enacted if Group Underlying Operating Profit was less than 85.0m for FY17.
FY17 Group Underlying Operating Profit was 115.1m excluding contribution from acquisitions therefore no notional shares were forfeited.
Discretion For the year ended 31 March 2017, no discretion was applied to the calculated results: therefore, 1,104,687 has been reported in the single figure calculation.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, financial targets were exceeded providing a contribution of 85.4% of base salary for the CEO and 82.9% of base salary for the CFO.
999,117 and 849,917 has been reported in the single figure table.
No discretion was applied to these contributions.
Long-term incentive summary Deferred Annual Bonus Matching Plan Following David Mellors resignation any award due under the 2014 Deferred Annual Bonus Matching Award lapsed.
The CEO did not participate in this award.
Performance Share Plan Following David Mellors resignation any award due under the 2014 Performance Share Plan lapsed.
A figure of zero has been reported in the single figure for Steve Wadey, David Mellors and David Smith respectively.
Long-term incentive plan results The 2014 Performance Share Plan achieved 50.3% vesting and the 2014 Deferred Annual Bonus Matching Plan achieved 41.4% vesting.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year ended 31 March 2017 The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Performance conditions under the PSP are: EPS growth between 3% 10% per annum: and TSR performance between median and upper quartile when compared to the FTSE250.
The following awards were made to Executive Directors.
Award as Face value Share price No.
of Performance Percentage of Performance percentage of award at date shares period award vesting Plan name measure Grant date of salary 000 of grant granted from to at threshold 1 Apr 16 CEO PSP 2016 EPS 1 Jul 16 95.0% 534 2.24 238,095 31 Mar 19 25% 1 Apr 16 CEO PSP 2016 TSR 1 Jul 16 95.0% 534 2.24 238,095 31 Mar 19 30% Between the approval date and grant date share price movement resulted in a revised award as a percentage of salary.
Pension No Directors participate in the QinetiQ Pension Scheme.
Pension figure represents cash in lieu of pension equating to 20% of base salary for both years.
The auditor is required to report on the information shown here over payments to past Directors.
Payments to past Directors and payment for loss of office No payments were made to past Directors and no payments were made for loss of office.
88 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration continued Single figure remuneration for each Non-executive Director The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Non-executive Director remuneration is shown as a single figure to provide an annual comparison between the actual remuneration awarded during the financial year ended 31 March 2017 and the preceding year.
Committee Chair fees US UK attendance fee Salary fees 000 Benefits 000 000 000 Single figure 000 Non-executive Director 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Lynn Brubaker 46 8 15 3 61 11 Admiral Sir James 46 45 9 9 2 57 54 Burnell-Nugent Mark Elliott 238 236 75 75 313 311 46 45 19 19 2 67 64 Michael Harper Ian Mason 46 45 46 45 Paul Murray 46 45 9 9 2 56 54 Susan Searle 46 45 2 48 45 Mark Elliott and Lynn Brubaker are US residents, therefore Mark is entitled to an accommodation allowance of 75,000 and Lynn is entitled to receive a $4,000 fee for attending UK meetings.
UK-based Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive a 2,500 fee for attending US meetings.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Set out below are the Directors shareholdings as at 31 March 2017.
In relation to the revised Executive Shareholding Policy adopted on 1 April 2017 the Company requires Executive Directors to hold shares equivalent to 300% CEO and 200% CFO of base salary.
The CEO does not currently meet the minimum shareholding requirement: with a current holding equivalent to 10% of base salary using a share price of 2.726 three-month average to 31 March 2017.
This reflects his recent appointment as CEO and the lack of any opportunity for share-based awards to vest.
The CFO does not currently meet the minimum shareholding requirement: with a current holding equivalent to 0% of base salary using a share price of 2.726 three-month average to 31 March 2017.
This reflects his recent appointment as CFO and the lack of any opportunity for share-based awards to vest.
Shares not Shares Shares subject to subject to Total shares beneficially performance performance held at 23 owned conditions conditions May 2017 Steve Wadey 21,925 839,826 861,751 David Smith Mark Elliott 125,000 125,000 Michael Harper 30,000 30,000 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 11,419 11,419 Paul Murray 74,942 74,942 Susan Searle 17,500 17,500 Ian Mason 10,000 10,000 Lynn Brubaker 12,000 12,000 Shares beneficially owned comprise shares held under the Share Incentive Plan including matched shares and shares owned by the Executive and any connected persons.
Shares subject to performance conditions comprise awards made under the Performance Share Plan for 2016 and 2015.
Total scheme interests summary The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
Total scheme interests, including those awarded during the financial year ended 31 March 2017, are as follows.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 89 Steve Wadey Granted in year maximum Market price Number 1 potential Exercised Lapsed in Number 31 on date of Earliest Latest Plan name Date of grant April 2016 of awards vested in year year March 2017 grant vest date vest date PSP 2015 28 Jul 15 363,636 363,636 231.0 28 Jul 18 28 Jul 18 PSP 2016 1 Jul 16 476,190 476,190 224.4 1 Jul 19 1 Jul 19 363,636 476,190 839,826 David Mellors Granted in year maximum Market price Number 1 potential Exercised Lapsed in Number 31 on date of Earliest Latest Plan name Date of grant April 2016 of awards vested in year year March 2017 grant vest date vest date PSP 2013 28 Jun 13 300,000 300,000 180.4 28 Jun 16 28 Jun 16 DAB Match 2013 28 Jun 13 157,196 157,196 180.4 28 Jun 16 28 Jun 16 PSP 2014 28 May 14 293,550 293,550 200.0 28 May 17 28 May 17 DAB Match 2014 1 Jul 14 108,779 108,779 207.7 1 Jul 14 1 Jul 17 PSP 2015 28 Jul 15 285,714 285,714 231.0 28 Jul 18 28 Jul 18 1,145,239 1,145,239 PSP awards are subject to two equally weighted performance conditions: EPS growth between 3% 10% per annum: and TSR performance between median and upper quartile when compared to the FTSE250.
DAB Match is subject to the same EPS condition as the PSP.
The price of a QinetiQ share at 31 March 2017 was 279.0p.
The highest and lowest prices of a QinetiQ share during the year ended 31 March 2017 were 217.5p and 285.0p.
There have been no changes to the interests shown above between 31 March 2017 and 23 May 2017.
Performance review The eight-year and three-year charts show the Companys Total Shareholder Return over the period from 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2014 to 31 March 2017 compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over the same period based on spot values.
The Committee has chosen to demonstrate the Companys performance against these indices as it is an appropriate sector comparison within the index in which the Company is listed.
This comparator group is also used to measure TSR performance in the PSP.
Eight-year comparator chart Three-year comparator chart 400 160 350 140 300 130 250 120 200 110 150 100 100 90 50 80 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 Mar-17 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 Mar-17 QinetiQ QinetiQ FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 90 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 3: Annual Report on Remuneration continued CEO remuneration The table below shows the CEOs remuneration over the same performance period as the Total Shareholder Return chart 31 March 2009 to 31 March 2017 : Long-Term Incentives Annual Bonus % of maximum Year ended 31 March Salary fees Single figure % of maximum vesting 2017 Steve Wadey 568,132 1,819,177 86.42% 2016 Steve Wadey 520,219 1,654,546 85.36% 2016 David Mellors 455,885 1,423,382 82.86% 2015 David Mellors 501,227 1,725,960 88.55% 13.91% 2015 Leo Quinn 469,776 673,979 2014 Leo Quinn 610,844 2,177,742 76.97% 15.43% 2013 Leo Quinn 593,050 3,992,001 100.00% 40.27% 2012 Leo Quinn 580,000 1,495,284 100.00% 2011 Leo Quinn 580,000 1,327,156 100.00% 2010 Leo Quinn 217,872 886,564 2010 Graham Love 266,667 1,246,320 Percentage change in CEO remuneration The following table compares change in CEO remuneration with an employee comparator group averaged per capita.
The comparison group 4,000 employees represents the UK principal businesses in service between 1 April 2016 and 31 March 2017.
For comparison purposes, the CEOs full year equivalent figures have been used for 2016 CEO joined on 27 April 2015.
CEO Comparison group 2017 2016 % change 2017 2016 % change Base salary 568,132 560,000 1.5% 39,694 38,591 2.9% Benefits 32,725 34,939 -6.3% 1,138 1,173 -3.1% Annual bonus 1,104,687 1,075,520 2.7% 1,506 912 65.1% Remuneration Policy for all employees Relative importance of spend on pay All employees of QinetiQ are entitled to base salary, The graph below shows actual spend on all employee benefits and pension.
UK and Australia based remuneration, shareholder dividends and buybacks and employees are entitled to participate in the QinetiQ any other significant use of profit and cash within the Share Incentive Plan.
The maximum incentive previous two financial years.
opportunity available is based on the seniority and 341.1 responsibility of the role.
Participation in the PSP is Total Employee available to Executive Directors: senior managers and remuneration 332.6 selected employees throughout the organisation are 34.1 Share-based also invited to participate.
The Committee is advised profit distribution 33.0 of the general reward policy for other employees and 47.4 of any significant changes proposed.
Other significant profit distribution 46.9 Gender related pay QinetiQ is subject to gender pay reporting and will m 2017 be publicising information during the coming year.
m 2016 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Directors Remuneration Report 91 Implementation of policy for the year ending Incentives for Executives 31 March 2018 The table below shows the measures and relative Salary fees weighting for Bonus Banking Plan Element A for Non-executive Director fees were last increased on the CEO and CFO: 1 July 2015, resulting in an increase in base fees from 43,000 to 46,000 per annum.
Non-executive Director Performance Relative measure excluding weighting fees will be reviewed again in July 2017.
The Non- 2018 acquisitions % executive Group Chairmans fees were last increased on Underlying 1 December 2016 resulting in an increase to 242,000.
Operating Salaries and fees are reviewed in line with Policy.
Profit 25.0% Executive Directors are permitted to accept one Underlying Net Bonus Banking Plan external non-executive director position with the Cash from Element A target Boards approval.
Any fees received in respect of these Operations performance appointments may be retained by the Executive Director.
Pre-Capex 25.0% 100% of base salary, stretch performance Orders 25.0% The CEO does not hold any non-executive directorships 200% of base salary Collective in other companies.
David Smith was appointed Objectives 12.5% non-executive director of Motability Operations Personal Group plc on 1 July 2010.
Non-executive director Objectives 12.5% fees, as reported in the 2016 Motability Operations Group plc annual report were 43,000 per annum.
Details of specific performance targets for the Bonus Banking Plan have not been provided as Fees effective as at 1 April 2017 they are deemed commercially sensitive.
They will be disclosed retrospectively in next years Annual Non-executive Group Chairman 242,000 Report on Remuneration.
Accommodation allowance The Deferred Share Plan Element B will award a for Non-executive Group Chairman 75,000 maximum of 125% of base salary for achieving Stretch Basic fee for UK performance with 35% of maximum payable at Target Non-executive Director 46,000 performance.
The 2018 performance measure will Additional fee for chairing be Underlying Operating Profit but with different a Committee 9,000 performance targets compared to the Bonus Banking Additional fee to Deputy Chairman Plan.
Awards will be made in July 2018 based on 2018 Senior Independent Non-executive performance.
Details of specific performance targets Director 10,000 for the Deferred Share Plan Element B have not been Additional fee for attendance at provided as they are deemed commercially sensitive.
a Board meeting held in US by UK They will be disclosed retrospectively in next years resident Non-executive Director 2,500 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Additional fee for attendance at a Board meeting held in UK by US Michael Harper resident Non-executive Director $4,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 25 May 2017
