Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors remuneration report 75 Directors remuneration at a glance 88 Annual report on remuneration 76 Annual statement from the Chairman 88 Operation of the remuneration ofthe Remuneration Committee policyfor 2017 18 78 Directors remuneration policy 89 Single total figure table auditedinformation 78 Changes to the remuneration policy 90 Annual bonus outturn for 2016 17 79 Future policy table ExecutiveDirectors 91 Performance and Co-investment Planoutturn for 2016 17 83 Future policy table Non-Executive Directors 92 Retirement benefits and entitlements audited information 84 Illustrations of applications ofremuneration policy 92 Director changes additional information audited information 85 Approach to recruitment remuneration 92 Outside appointments 85 Dates of Directors service 93 Non-Executive Director fees contracts letters of appointment andbenefits 86 Policy on termination of service 93 All employee, performance and agreements and payments for othercontextual information loss of office 94 Share award and shareholding 87 Statement of consideration of disclosures audited information employment conditions elsewhere 95 Shareholder dilution inthe Company 96 Details of share awards 87 Statement of consideration of shareholder views 98 The Remuneration Committee anditsadvisers 98 Statement of voting at generalmeeting 99 Directors remuneration reportcompliance Waste processing at Exeter ERF 74 Directors remuneration ataglance Key components of Executive Directors remuneration Base salary Annual bonus Pension Set at a competitive level to attract and retain Incentivises the achievement of key performance Provides funding for retirement and aids retention high calibre candidates to meet Companys objectives aligned to the strategy of the Company.
of key skills to assist in meeting the Companys strategic objectives in an increasingly complex strategic objectives.
Long-term incentive plan business environment.
Provides alignment to the achievement of the All-employee share plans Benefits Companys strategic objectives and the delivery Align the interests of all employees with Company Benefits provided are consistent with the market of sustainable long-term value to shareholders.
and level of seniority and to aid retention of key Shareholding guidelines skills to assist in meeting strategic objectives.
Create alignment between executives and shareholders and promote long-term stewardship.
Summary of Directors remuneration 2016 17 Benefits Annual bonus Base including cash and Long term Total salary fees Sharesave deferred shares incentive plan Pension remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Chris Loughlin 510 27 429 199 153 1,318 Susan Davy 390 18 332 73 109 922 Non-Executive directors Sir John Parker 266 266 Neil Cooper 66 66 Martin Angle 67 67 Gill Rider 72 72 See the full single total figure of remuneration tables on page 89 Key proposed changes in policy and implementation Performance measurement LTIP opportunity Shareholding guidelines Re-shaping our performance measurement A proposed increase to our LTIP opportunity Increasing our shareholding guidelines framework to align with the strategic priorities toalign it better with the market, aiding fortheExecutive Directors, to provide ofthe Group for both the annual bonus and retentionand recruitment the first increase to strongeralignment with shareholders and theLTIP.
incentive quantum we have made for 10 years.
Holding period Formalising our existing two year holding period.
Read more about the changes to our remuneration policy on pages 76 to 79 75 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Our remuneration Introduction arrangements ensure I am pleased to present, on behalf of our Board, the Remuneration Committees Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended the commitment of our 31 March 2017.
We are submitting a revised Directors Remuneration Policy Policy Executive Directors for a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM, following the expiration of a three year period.
As explained below, the revised to our long-term strategic Policy follows the first comprehensive review of our executive remuneration arrangements for 10 years and reflects the major objectives and to the creation changes Pennon has made to its strategy, management structure andgovernance in the last year.
This includes the appointment of of shareholder value.
Chris Loughlin to the newly created role of Group CEO, leading a new, restructured Pennon Executive team.
It also reflects the challenges Read more about our strategic objectives on page 16 weface in the recruitment and retention of executive talent.
We have always sought to take a responsible approach to executive remuneration and are mindful of the views of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
We have therefore consulted with the shareholder base and, taking on board feedback, have aligned our proposals accordingly.
On pages 88 to 99 we set out our annual report on remuneration which contains the remuneration of the Directors for the year 2016 17 including the single remuneration figure table.
It also provides details on how our policy will be applied for 2017 18.
This section of the report together with this letter is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at this years AGM.
Last year the Remuneration Committee was pleased to note that 97%of shareholders who voted approved the annual report on remuneration.
The Committee appreciates the support of itsshareholders.
Policy review Over the last year we have undertaken a comprehensive review of all aspects of our executive remuneration arrangements.
A particular focus was given to looking at our performance measurement framework afresh against our new Group structure, and to ensure its continued relevance and alignment with strategy and consistency with best practice.
Throughout the process, the Committee has received advice from its remuneration advisers, Deloitte LLP, and from the Board Chairman.
This has been the first review of incentive levels for 10 years and, while a number of best practice features have been adopted in recent years, our review has also sought to address recent challenges that Pennon has faced in recruiting talent in a changing talent pool and business environment.
Over the last ten years, the complexity of our business has increased, and we are now one of the largest environmental infrastructure groups in the UK.
Our objective continues to be to have remuneration arrangements that ensure the commitment of our Executive Directors to our long-term strategic objectives and to the creation of shareholder value, whilst ensuring their behaviours reflect the values of the organisation and actions are taken in accordance with our high standards of governance.
76 LTIP simplification and performance alignment simplification of our long-term incentive framework with the removal of the Remuneration review the key co-investment element under the new LTIP.
In addition, vesting principles we followed forthreshold performance will be reduced from 30% to 25%.
Annual bonus performance measures an increase in the Align executive targets with the Companys combined weighting on Group financial metrics and the key key strategic objectives operational measures on which performance is assessed by our regulator, customers, communities and wider stakeholders.
We are Ensure a transparent, simple and equitable not proposing any change to the existing maximum award or policy approach to pay that 50% of any bonus is deferred into shares which are normally Incentivise the delivery of sustainable released after three years.
long-term value toshareholders Shareholding guidelines and long-term stewardship the size Attract and retain high calibre executives of the shareholding expected to be held by the Executive Directors will be significantly increased from 100% of salary to 200% of inanincreasingly competitive talent market salaryfor both the CEO and CFO.
This is to enhance the focus Drive the right behaviours at all times from onlong-term stewardship and to provide stronger alignment executives withshareholders.
Support the underlying strategic priorities of Holding periods we introduced two-year holding periods in 2015.
We are retaining this feature and are formalising it as part of our policy.
operating safely, with an engagedworkforce and focus on customerservice Further details on the remuneration policy are set out on pages 79 to87.
Improve transparency and line of sight under the performance measurement framework Overall performance achieved during the year Apply similar remuneration principles to The Group achieved a strong performance in 2016 17 across its water members of the Pennon Executive and waste businesses, delivering against its strategic objectives.
Group underlying profit before tax was 250.0 million, an increase of 18.3% Seek feedback and input on our proposals compared to 2015 16.
Earnings per share before deferred tax and from shareholders.
non-underlying items was up 19.0% at 47.0p reflecting higher profits.
South West Waters return on regulated equity RoRE at 12.6% continues to lead the sector and Viridor generated EBITDA of 107 million during the year, ahead of the target of c. 100 million.
Key remuneration decisions Proposed modifications As a result of our review, and following input and feedback from For 2017 18, salaries for executive directors were increased by 1.5%, shareholders, we are proposing some modifications to our consistent with increases awarded to the wider employee population.
remuneration policy, including a refreshed approach to our performance measurement framework, with metrics which are The bonus outturns for the Executive Directors for 2016 17 reflect stronglyaligned to our Group strategy and targets which are thestrong achievements of the Group businesses in the year, the regardedas stretching.
Companys performance against corporate financial targets and the Executive Directors performance against individual targets.
Half of the Long-term incentive plan LTIP performance measures bonus is deferred into shares.
Further details of targets, measures and introduction of new performance metrics under our LTIP, performance are set out on pages 90 and 91. alignedwith our key strategic objectives.
It is proposed, for 2017 18, that LTIP awards will be based on a combination of EPS growth, As regards the Companys long-term incentive plan, the overall dividend growth dividend cover, and return on capital employed estimated outturn for awards vesting in 2017 at the end of the three ROCE.
These metrics align executives with the delivery of year period is 43.7% of the maximum 100%.
This reflects that the sustainable earnings and related cash flows, as well as our Companys total shareholder return is estimated to exceed both the sector-leading dividend policy.
We also took account of shareholder comparator index performance and the FTSE 250 group.
feedback and included a portion of the award linked to the Board changes long-term capital returns generated by our business.
This moves Ian McAulay CEO of Viridor stepped down from the Board on away from our historic approach of using only Total Shareholder 31August 2016 and left the Group on 31 December 2016.
Our review highlighted that it has become hisleaving arrangements are set out on page 92. increasingly difficult to formulate a robust sector comparator group, and a FTSE 250 group is often counter cyclical to our sector.
Looking forward LTIP opportunity a proposed increase to our LTIP opportunity We will continue to review our remuneration arrangements and the first increase to incentive quantum we have made for 10 performance measures to ensure they are aligned with our strategy.
Under the proposed new policy, the maximum opportunity Inconclusion, I hope you find our report this year informative and that for executive directors will be increased from 100% to 150% of we can rely on your vote in favour of the remuneration policy and our salary.
Our recent experience in recruitment has led us to believe annual report on remuneration.
that we are not sufficiently competitive in the market.
While careful consideration was given to the current climate, the Committee strongly believes that it is in shareholders interests to enable Martin D Angle Pennon to compete for talent on a level playing field, securing Remuneration Committee chairman anexecutive team who can deliver long-term business success.
Our incentive levels will continue to be positioned conservatively against the market.
As a Committee we also recognise the importance of stretching performance metrics in circumstances where we are seeking a higher maximum award.
77 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors remunerationpolicy Introduction The remuneration policy described in this part of the report is intended to apply to the Company, subject to abinding shareholder vote, following the date of the Companys 2017 AGM which is scheduled to be held on 6July 2017.
Shareholders will also be asked to approve a revised long-term incentive plan LTIP.
This will replace the current Performance and Co-investment Plan PCP, which will expire in July 2017.
The Directors remuneration policy will be displayed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk about-us , immediately after the 2017 AGM and will be available upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
co. uk about-us  Changes to the remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee undertook a comprehensive review of the remuneration policy following the end of a three year period, as well as the expiry of our long-term incentive plan the existing PCP will expire in July 2017.
Following this review, which included a consultation process with our largest shareholders, the key changes to the policy include: Re-shaping our performance measurement framework to align with the strategic priorities of the Group A proposed increase to our LTIP opportunity to align it better with the market, aiding retention and recruitment the first increase to incentive quantum we have made for 10 years Formalising our existing two year holding period Significant increase in our shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
Component Existing policy New policy Rationale and link to strategy Annual bonus Performance measures Performance measures Improved focus on Group measures and Performance targets relate to corporate and Increase in the portion of the award relating reflects new Group management structure.
Normally 70% relates to to financial and quantitative operational Strong link to measurable financial and financial targets or quantitative measures.
measures amounting to 80% in 2017 18. operational KPIs which underpin the delivery of our strategy and value to shareholders and our customers.
Maximum award Maximum award Retain our current annual bonus maximum Maximum award of 100% of salary.
No change to the Policy with alignment to annual KPIs.
Deferred element Deferred element Alignment of executives and shareholders, A proportion usually 50% of any bonus is No change to the Policy.
with a significant portion of any bonus deferred into shares in the Company which deferred into shares.
are normally released after three years.
LTIP Performance measures Performance measures Performance measurement framework more Total shareholder return TSR against the A combination of EPS growth, sustainable closely aligned to Pennons strategy.
performance of a water waste peer group dividend growth and dividend cover, and Move away from TSR due to increasing index and constituents of the FTSE 250 return on capital.
challenge in forming robust and relevant index excluding investment trusts.
comparator group due to sector consolidation and the FTSE 250 group which is often counter cyclical to our sector.
Co-investment requirement Co-investment requirement Simplification of our long-term incentive Requirement to acquire co-investment No co-investment requirement under the framework.
shares equivalent to one-fifth of the value of new policy.
Shareholdings requirements will significantly the award.
increase see below but are no longer linked to the LTIP.
Maximum award Maximum award Ensure we can recruit and retain executive Maximum award of 100% of salary.
Maximum award of 150% of salary.
Following the increase, Pennon will continue to be positioned conservatively against the market.
78 Component Existing policy New policy Rationale and link to strategy LTIP continued Threshold vesting Threshold vesting Reduced threshold vesting to reflect best 30% of maximum award.
Holding periods Holding periods Extend time horizons to five years and Two-year holding periods were introduced Two-year holding periods will continue to enhance long-term focus of executives.
for awards made from 2015. apply and will be formally included in Policy.
Shareholding requirements 100% of salary for executive directors 200% of salary for both the CEO and CFO.
Strengthen alignment of executives with shareholders and promote long-term stewardship.
Future policy table Executive Directors The table below sets out the elements of the total remuneration package for the Executive Directors which are comprised in this Directors remuneration policy.
Where it is intended that certain provisions of the 2014 remuneration policy will continue to apply, this is indicated in the future policy table below.
How the components How the component operates including provisions for recovery or Maximum potential Description of framework support the strategic objectives of the Company withholding of any payment value of the component used to assessperformance Base salary Set at a competitive level Salaries are generally reviewed annually and any When reviewing salaries the None, although individual and Company toattract and retain high changes are normally effective from 1 April each Committee has regard to the performance are factors considered when calibre candidates to meet year.
In normal circumstances, salary increases following factors: reviewing salaries.
the Companys strategic will not be materially different to general Salary increases generally objectives in an increasingly employee pay increases.
forall employees in the complex business However, the Committee reserves the right to Company and theGroup environment.
make increases above those made to general Market rates Base salary reflects the employees, for example in circumstances Performance of individual scope and responsibility of including but not limited to an increase in the andthe Company the role as well asthe skills scope of the role.
Other factors it and experience of considersrelevant.
There is no overall maximum.
Benefits Benefits provided are Benefits currently include the provision of The cost of insurance None.
consistent with the market acompany vehicle, fuel, health insurance andlife benefitsmay varyfrom and level of seniority to assurance.
Other benefits may beprovided if the yeartoyear depending on aidretention of key skills Committee considers itappropriate.
toassist in meeting In the event that an Executive Director is There is no overall maximum strategicobjectives.
required to relocate, relocation benefits benefit value but the Committee maybeprovided.
aims to ensure that the total value of benefits remain proportionate.
Annual bonus Incentivises the achievement Annual bonuses are calculated following The maximum bonus potential Performance targets relate to corporate and of key performance finalisation of the financial results for the year to foreach Director is 100% of personal objectives which are reviewed each year.
objectives aligned to the which they relate and are usually paid three basesalary.
For 2017 18, in relation to the financial and strategy of the Company.
months after the end of the financial year.
operational measures of the annual bonus A portion of any bonus is deferred into shares in framework there will be an 80% overall weighting the Company which are normally released after of which 50% will be profit before tax, 10% return three years.
on regulated equity and 20% operational measures.
All of these measures will be subject to Any dividends on the shares during this period defined quantitative targets.
are paid to the Directors.
The measures, weighting and threshold levels Malus and clawback provisions apply which may be adjusted for future years.
permit net cash bonuses and or deferred bonus shares to be forfeited, repaid or made subject to Following the financial year end the Committee, further conditions where the Committee withadvice from the Chairman of the Board and considers it appropriate in the event of any following consideration of the outturn against target significant adverse circumstances, including but by the chairman of the Audit Committee, assesses not limited to a material failure of risk to what extent the targets are met and determines management, serious reputational damage, a bonus levels accordingly.
In doing so the Committee financial misstatement or misconduct.
Clawback takes into account overall Company performance may be applied for the period of three years and in exceptional circumstances may exercise its following determination of the cash bonus.
discretion and adjust the bonus to reflect any specific factors.
79 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors remunerationpolicy continued How the components How the component operates support the strategic including provisions for recovery or Maximum potential Description of framework objectives of the Company withholding of any payment value of the component used to assessperformance Long-term incentive plan LTIP Provides alignment to Annual grant of conditional shares or The maximum annual award is The current performance measures for the theachievement of the equivalent.
Share awards vest subject to the 150% of base salary.
LTIPare based on a combination of growth in Companys strategic achievement of specificperformance conditions earnings per share EPS, sustainable dividend objectives and the delivery measuredover a performance period of noless growth and dividend cover, and return on capital.
ofsustainable long-term than three years.
For 2017 18 awards, performance measures will be value to shareholders.
Dividend equivalents including dividend weighted as follows: reinvestment may be paid onvested awards.
40% based on EPS growth An underpin applies which allows the 40% based on a combination of dividend Committee to reduce or withhold vesting growth and a dividend cover metric iftheCommittee is not satisfied with the 20% based on return on capital employed.
underlying operational and economic The underpin evaluation includes consideration performance of the Company.
of safety, environmental, social and governance For grants made in 2015 and 2016 onwards ESG factors as well as financial performance.
underthe PCP, as wellas all grants made from No more than 25%of maximum vests for 2017 under the LTIP, malus and clawback minimum performance.
provisions apply which permit shares to be forfeited, repaid or made subject to further The Committee will keep the performance conditions where the Committee considers measures and weightings under review and may itappropriate in certain circumstances.
change the performance condition for future Thecircumstances in which malus may awards if this were considered to be aligned with beapplied include but are not limited to the Companys interests and strategic objectives, material misstatement, serious reputational as well as the impact of regulatory changes.
damage, or the participants misconduct.
However, the Committee would consult with major Thecircumstances in which clawback may shareholders in advance of any proposed material beapplied are material misstatement or change in performance measures.
Commitments made under the 2014 policy In addition a two year holding period will apply in Performance conditions set under the previous respect of any shares which vestat the end of remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM the three year performanceperiod.
will continue to apply to awards granted in 2014, Malus may be applied during the three year 2015 and 2016.
These awards are due to vest in performance period and clawback may be 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively.
Previous applied up until the end of the holding period.
performance conditions were based on total shareholder return TSR against the performance of a water waste peer group index and constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
For awards granted under the 2014 remuneration policy, no more than 30% of the maximum vests for minimum performance.
80 How the components How the component operates support the strategic including provisions for recovery or Maximum potential Description of framework objectives of the Company withholding of any payment value of the component used to assessperformance Shareholding requirements Create alignment between 200% of salary for both the CEO and CFO.
executives and shareholders and promote long-term stewardship.
Pension Provides funding for Defined benefit pension arrangements are closed The maximum annual pension None.
retirement andaids retention to new entrants.
Defined contribution pension contribution or cash allowance is of key skills to assist in arrangements have been available to new staff 20% ofsalary.
For Executive meeting the Companys since 2008.
Directors who commenced strategic objectives.
employment prior to April2013, A cash allowance may be provided as an themaximum annual pension alternative and or in addition where pension contribution or cash allowance is limits have been reached.
Legacy defined benefit pension arrangements will continue to be honoured.
Whilst one Executive Director is a pension member there are no further prospective accruals in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements.
All-employee share plans Align the interests of all Executive Directors may participate in HMRC The maximum is as prescribed None.
employees with Company approved all-employee plans on the same basis under the relevant HMRC share performance.
81 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors remunerationpolicy continued Amendments to the remuneration policy Notes to the policy table The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for Operation of executive share plans example for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative The long-term incentive plan will be operated in accordance with the purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without rules of the plan as approved by shareholders.
The deferred bonus obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
awards will be governed by the rules adopted by the Board from time to time.
Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in Performance measures and targets this report may: The performance conditions for the annual bonus plan are selected by the Committee each year to reflect key performance indicators for the Be granted as conditional share awards, nil-cost options or in Company and key metrics used by the Board to oversee the operation suchother form that the Committee determines has the same of the businesses.
economic effect Have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or In respect of the LTIP, performance conditions for 2017 18 awards will substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the be EPS growth, a sustainable dividend metric comprising dividend Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance growth and dividend cover and return on capital employed ROCE.
condition would be more appropriate and not materially less The Committee chose these measures as they are closely aligned with difficult to satisfy Pennons strategic focus on the delivery of sustained earnings and Incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional related cash flows, as well as our sector-leading dividend policy.
ROCE shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid also measures the long-term capital returns generated by our on the shares under an award that vest up to the time of vesting businesses.
The performance targets are set in the context of the or where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
Companys forecasts and market expectations, and are regarded as Thisamount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have stretching targets.
been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis The Committee may amend performance measures, weightings and Be settled in cash at the Committees discretion.
targets, in the context of the Companys strategy, the impact of changes to the regulatory framework, accounting standards and any Pre-existing commitments other relevant factors.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretion The measurement of performance against performance targets is at available in connection with such payments outside the policy set out the Committees discretion, which may include appropriate above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the 2014 adjustments to financial or non-financial elements and or AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved directors consideration of overall performance in the round.
remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out Performance conditions may also be replaced or varied if an event above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were occurs or circumstances arise which cause the Committee to consistent with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy determine that the performance conditions have ceased to be in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant appropriate.
If the performance conditions are varied or replaced, the individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the amended conditions must, in the opinion of the Committee, be fair, Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual reasonable and materially no less difficult than the original condition becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments when set.
includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed The Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance of at the time the award is granted.
any proposed material change in performance measures.
The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS which, under the 2014 Differences in remuneration policy for allemployees remuneration policy, operated in conjunction with the deferred When setting remuneration for Executive Directors the Committee element of the annual bonus, has been removed.
No ESOS options considers relevant information about pay and conditions in the Group.
have been offered to Executive Directors since 2013.
Senior executives and Executive Directors generally receive a higher proportion of their total pay in the form of variable remuneration and Early vesting events share awards.
All administrative employees of the Group are entitled to On a change of control or voluntary wind up of the Company, LTIP base salary and pension provision including life assurance.
In addition awards may vest to the extent determined by the Committee having all administrative staff in Pennon Group and South West Water and all regard to the performance of the Company and, unless the Committee senior and middle management staff in the operations functions in determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
Viridor are entitled to participate in annual bonus arrangements, the Deferred bonus awards may vest in full.
Alternatively, participants may levels of which are based on the seniority and level of responsibility.
have the opportunity, or be required, to exchange their awards for Long-term incentive share awards are only available to senior equivalent awards in another company, although the Committee may executives and Executive Directors, and certain benefits are generally decide in these circumstances to amend the performance conditions.
available only to more senior employees at management level The Committee also has the discretion to treat any variation of the and above.
Companys share capital or any demerger, special dividend or other transaction that may affect the current or future value of awards as anearly vesting event on the same basis as a change of control.
82 Future policy table Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the Companys policy in respect of the setting of fees for Non-Executive Directors.
How the components support the strategic objectives of the Company How the component operates Maximum potential value of the component Fees Set at a market level to attract Non-Executive Directors Fees are set by the Board with the Chairmans fees Total fees paid to Non-executive Directors will remain who have appropriate experience and skills to assist in being set by the Committee.
The relevant Directors within the limits stated in the Articles of Association.
arenot present at the meetings when their fees are being determined.
Non-Executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional fee for any specific Board responsibility such as membership or chairmanship of a Committee or occupying the role of Senior Independent Director.
In reviewing the fees the Board, or Committee as appropriate, consider the level of fees payable to Non-Executive Directors in other companies of similar scale and complexity.
Benefits The benefits provided for the Chairman are consistent Expenses incurred in the performance of nonNone.
with the market and level of seniority.
executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company including any tax due on the expenses.
The Chairmans benefits include the provision of a driver and vehicle, when appropriate for the efficient carrying out of his duties.
83 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors remunerationpolicy continued Illustrations of applications of remuneration policy The total annual remuneration for the Executive Directors that could result from the proposed remuneration policy, based on salaries for 2017 18, is shown below.
Chris Loughlin Chief Executive O icer Susan Davy Chief Financial O icer 000 000 Minimum Mid Maximum Minimum Mid Maximum performance performance performance performance performance performance Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term variable remuneration Long-term variable remuneration Scenario Assumptions Fees Minimum performance Fixed pay, which constitutes base salary, pension and benefits in kind.
These values are made up of the salaries for 2017 18 set out on page 88 and an estimate of the value of the benefits and pension.
Mid performance Fixed pay and 50% of the maximum annual bonus and 25% of the maximum long term incentive award.
Maximum Fixed pay and 100% vesting of the annual bonus and of long-term incentive awards.
No adjustments have been made for potential share price growth or payment of dividends.
Benefits from all-employee schemes have also been excluded.
2 of Approach to recruitment remuneration the Listing Rules.
The Committee will ensure that any such award When considering the appointment of Executive Directors the would at a maximum match the value of the awards granted by the Committee seeks to balance the need to offer remuneration to attract previous employer and be made only where a Director is able to candidates of sufficient calibre to deliver the Companys strategy demonstrate that a loss has been incurred from leaving his or her whilst remaining mindful of the need to pay no more than is necessary.
Any buyout would take into account the terms The Committee will appoint new Executive Directors with a package of the arrangement forfeited, including in particular any performance that is in line with the remuneration policy that has been agreed by conditions and the time over which they vest.
The award would have shareholders and is in place at the time.
Base salary may be set at a time horizons which are in line with or greater than the awards higher or lower level than the previous incumbent.
Other elements of remuneration would be in line with the Companys For interim positions a cash supplement may be paid rather than policy set out in the in the future policy.
salary for example a Non-executive Director taking on an executive function on a short-term basis.
The maximum variable pay opportunity on recruitment excluding buyouts would be in line with the future policy table, being a Where an employee is promoted to the position of Executive Director maximum annual bonus award of 100% of salary and maximum award including if an Executive Director is appointed following an under the LTIP of 150% of salary.
acquisition or merger, pre-existing awards and contractual commitments would be honoured in accordance with their The Committee may determine for the first year of appointment that establishedterms.
any annual bonus will be subject to different weightings or objectives.
Non-executive Directors fees would be in line with the policy set out in To facilitate recruitment it may be necessary to recompense a new the future policy table on page 83.
Executive Director for the expected value of incentive rewards foregone with their previous employer buyout awards.
The Dates of Directors service contracts letters of appointment The dates of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment and details of the unexpired term are shown below.
Executive Directors Date of service contract Expiry date of service contract Chris Loughlin 1 January 2016 At age 67 20 August 2019 Susan Davy 1 February 2015 At age 67 17 May 2036 Ian McAulay 2 August 2013 At age 65 25 April 2030 Resigned on 31 August 2016 Each of the Executive Directors service contracts is subject to 12 months notice on either side.
Non-Executive Directors Date of initial letter of appointment Expiry date of appointment Sir John Parker 19 March 2015 31 March 2018 Martin Angle 28 November 2008 30 November 2017 Neil Cooper 17 July 2014 30 August 2017 Gill Rider 22 June 2012 30 August 2018 The policy is for Executive Directors service contracts to provide for 12 months notice from either side.
The policy is for Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment to contain three months notice period from either side and for the Chairmans letter of appointment to contain a 12 months notice period from either side.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election and letters of appointment are for an initial three-year term.
Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
85 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors remunerationpolicy continued the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal Policy on termination of service agreements obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or andpayment for loss of office by way of compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service agreements with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
Any such normally continue until the Directors agreed retirement date or such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for other date as the parties agree.
Otherwise they are terminable on one outplacement assistance and or the directors legal and or years notice.
professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or There are no liquidated damages provisions for compensation on employment.
termination within Executive Directors service agreements.
Taking The Company may meet ancillary costs, such as outplacement into account the circumstances of any termination, the Committee consultancy and or reasonable legal costs if the Company terminates may determine that a payment in lieu of notice should be made.
Any the Executive Directors service contract.
such payments would be restricted to salary and benefits.
In these circumstances consideration would be given to phasing of payments Any compensation payable will be determined by reference to the and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses.
terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of the various incentive plans as set out The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in in the table below.
connection with a directors cessation of office or employment where Annual bonus Normally no bonus is payable unless an Executive Director is employed on the date of payment.
In certain good leaver circumstances death, disability, redundancy, retirement and any other circumstance at the Committees discretion a bonus may be payable.
Any such bonus would be based on performance and pro-rated to reflect the period of service with performance normally assessed at the same time as other employees.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating of any award to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances which they consider would be fair to the Company and to the employee.
Share deferral would not normally apply.
Deferred shares Unvested awards would normally lapse upon cessation.
In certain good leaver circumstances, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the restricted period is not automatically terminated on cessation of employment: rather, the restricted period continues to apply as if the leaver was still in employment.
However, awards may be released to participants on cessation of employment at the discretion of the Committee.
Good leaver circumstances are death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the individuals employing business or company out of the Group and any other circumstance at the Committees discretion.
Long-term incentive plan Any unvested awards would normally lapse upon cessation of the individuals employment within the Group.
In certain good leaver circumstances, awards vest to the extent determined by the Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied, the period of time elapsed between grant and the cessation of employment and such other factors as the Committee may deem relevant.
Awards would normally vest on the original normal vesting date and be released at the end of the two-year holding period unless the Committee determines awards should be subject to earlier vesting and release dates.
If a participant dies, an award will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, vest and be released at the time of the participants death, taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and the period of time elapsed since grant.
Good leaver circumstances are death, ill health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, where the participants employer is no longer a member of the Group, where the participant is employed in an undertaking which is transferred out of the Group, or for any other reason that the Committee determines.
All awards would lapse if a participant was summarily dismissed.
All-employee awards Leavers will be treated in accordance with the HMRC approved rules.
Other awards Where a buyout award is made on recruitment, leaver provisions would be determined at the time of award.
86 Statement of consideration of employment Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee has taken into account general good governance, conditions elsewhere in theCompany best practice and shareholder views when formulating the In setting executive remuneration the Committee takes account of remuneration policy.
As part of our recent remuneration review, we employment market conditions and the pay and benefits differentials carried out an extensive consultation process and consulted our Top across the Group.
The Committee considers annual summary reports 30 shareholders, comprising 63% of the shareholder base.
As a result of employee remuneration and the terms and conditions of of this process, a number of changes were made to our proposals, employment within each operating company and has regard to these including the use of a ROCE metric under our new LTIP and a in setting salary and other benefits for the Executive Directors and significant increase in our shareholding guideline, from 100% to 200%, senior management.
The reports of employee remuneration do not for both the CEO and the CFO.
The Committee does not consult with employees when drawing upthe Directors remuneration policy but does take account of theGroup-wide policy as described above.
87 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual report onremuneration Introduction This section sets out how the Company has applied its remuneration policy in the 2016 17 year, and details how the new policy will be implemented for the year 2017 18.
In accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act, this section will be put to an advisory vote at the Companys AGM which is scheduled to be held on 6 July 2017.
Operation of the remuneration policy for 2017 18 A summary of the specific remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors in 2017 18 is described below: Base salary 2017 18 salaries are: Chris Loughlin: 517,650 Susan Davy: 395,850 Salaries were increased by 1.5% in line with increases for all employees.
Salary supplement cash allowance of 30% for Chris Loughlin and 25% for Susan Davy, from which is deducted the employers contribution benefits to the defined benefit or defined contribution pension schemes for the Directors.
Annual bonus No change to maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
No change to operation of deferral, with 50% of the bonus to be deferred into shares for three years.
For 2017 18, the annual bonus will be based on the following performance measures: 60% based on Group financial metrics 50% PBT, 10% RoRE.
20% based on operational metrics, weighted equally between Waste and Water.
These measures will be quantitative and measurable, and are key to meeting the needs of our customers, our regulator, and wider stakeholders.
Water metrics Waste metrics Service Incentive Mechanism SIM ERF availability Bathing quality Delivery against recycling action plan Leakage Growth in customer base.
Waste water pollution incidents Duration of interruptions to supply Waste water and waste asset reliability.
20% based on personal strategic measures.
These will be relevant to the individual, and will include health and safety, environmental performance, development and delivery of commercial priorities for the Group, PR19, and leveraging of synergies.
For bonuses from 2014 15 both malus and clawback apply as described in the remuneration policy.
Long-term Maximum award of 150% of base salary for both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
incentive plan For 2017 18, performance measures will be EPS growth, a sustainable dividend measure and ROCE, with targets set as follows: EPS growth 40% weighting EPS growth pa Vesting Threshold 6% 25% Maximum 10% 100% Straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum.
Sustainable dividend measure dividend growth and dividend cover 40% weighting The performance measure comprises two performance targets, both of which need to be achieved.
There is a gateway dividend growth target of RPI 4% per annum.
There is then an EBITDA dividend cover target which operates as follows: EBITDA dividend cover Vesting Threshold 2.6 25% Maximum 3.6 100% Straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum.
As an additional underpin the board must also be satisfied with the level of EPS dividend cover.
EBITDA dividend cover will be based on adjusted EBITDA calculated as underlying EBITDA share of JV dividends & interest receivable IFRIC12 interest receivable.
For the purpose of the calculation, dividend cover would be based on the policy of 4% pa above RPI.
88 Long-term Return on capital employed ROCE 20% weighting incentive plan Average ROCE Vesting continued Threshold 8% 25% Maximum 10% 100% ROCE is defined as: operating profit JV profit after tax interest receivable divided by capital employed debt equity including hybrid.
Straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum.
The LTIP award will be subject to an underpin relating to overall Group performance including consideration of environmental, social and governance factors and safety performance, as well as financial performance.
For awards from 2015 16 both malus and clawback apply and a holding period applies in respect of any shares which vest at the end of the three year performance period, as described in the remuneration policy report.
Performance is measured over three years and a two-year holding period applies.
Shareholding 200% of salary for both the CEO and CFO.
guideline Non-Executive Director fees Non-Executive Director fees for 2017 18 are set out below.
They include an increase of 1.5% approved by the Board for the Chairman and for the NonExecutive Directors, effective from 1 April 2017.
Fees Role Chairman 270,331 Basic Non-executive Director fee 47,198 Additional fees Senior Independent Director fee 7,000 Additional fee for chairman of the Audit Committee 14,210 Additional fee for chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10,150 Additional fee for chairman of the Sustainability Committee 10,150 Committee fee 5,075 Single total figure of remuneration tables audited information Annual bonus i Benefits cash and Long term Total iii Base salary fees including Sharesave deferred shares incentive plan Pension remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 ii 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 Executive Directors iv Chris Loughlin 510 427 27 29 429 356 199 224 153 128 1,318 1,119 Susan Davy 390 325 18 18 332 238 73 83 109 91 922 738 v Ian McAulay 305 400 12 21 238 58 80 375 739 Non-executive directors Sir John Parker 266 219 266 219 Neil Cooper 66 65 66 65 Martin Angle 67 62 67 62 Gill Rider 72 65 72 65 i Benefits comprise a car allowance and medical insurance.
ii Based on an estimated 43.7% vesting as referred to on page 91 and based on the Companys share price of 836.64p being the average share price over Q4 2016 17, together with an estimate of the accrued dividends payable on the vesting shares.
iii See page 92 for further information.
iv Appointed 1 January 2016 previously Executive Director and Chief Executive, South West Water.
For 2015 16, remuneration is aggregate total in the year in respect of both positions.
v Stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016 and left the Group on 31 December 2016.
89 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual report on remuneration continued Annual bonus outturn for 2016 17 The performance targets set and the performance achieved in respect of the annual bonus for 2016 17 for both Executive Directors is set out below.
In line with the Committees policy, 50% of any bonus is payable in shares, the release of which is deferred for a three-year restricted period.
Chris Loughlin Actual Bonus Measure Threshold Target Maximum outturn outturn EPS 30% weighting 37.53p 41.7p 47.96p 47.0p 24.83% Average South West Water directors performance 20% weighting The average of the bonus earned by the executive directors of South West Water in respect of targets which related to: Operating profit 224.6m 229.2m 233.8m 237.2m Return on regulated equity 7.0% 9.0% 11% 12.6% 17.56% Net debt Totex outperformance The achievement of a range of service improvements relating to bathing water quality, SIM, leakage, wastewater compliance, pollutions, resolution of operational contacts, duration of supply interruptions, asset reliability and employee engagement.
Average Viridor directors performance 20% weighting The average of the bonus earned by the executive directors of Viridor in respect of targets which related to: EBITDA JVs 119.6m 132.9m 146.2m 142.5m Budgeted restructuring savings 56.1m 59.0m 62.0m 58.7m 14.82% Sales revenue 731.9m 770.4m 808.9m 785.0m Environmental compliance events 11 3 Personal strategic objectives 30% weighting Successful implementation of new governance arrangements across the Group to ensure these are effective and efficient, with improved processes, communications and development of common services and synergies Refreshment of Group strategy, including identification of focus and growth areas, as well as agreement of appropriate business model for waste recycling.
Establishment of Growth Forum to consider and validate growth opportunities.
Centralisation of the recycling business model.
Implementation of self help measures for margin Viridor has improved from 3.2% to 4.7% Revision of succession planning process and structure for directors 26.84% Enhancement of Pennons recognition, branding and reputation with internal and external stakeholders.
Completion of a group wide rebranding exercise, which following board approval was rolled out throughout the organisation.
Results of investor surveys on Pennon brand recognition at investor level Delivery of strategic priorities around Group level processes, synergies and efficiencies.
Achievement of 100 million EBITDA target for ERF, with improvement in recycling margins.
Strong progression of Shared Services and establishment of a Group executive Total outturn 84.05% some objectives and the detailed targets continue to be commercially confidential 90 Susan Davy Actual Bonus Measure Threshold Target Maximum outturn outturn EPS 30% weighting 37.53p 41.7p 47.96p 47.0p 24.83% Average South West Water directors performance 20% weighting The average of the bonus earned by the executive directors of South West Water in respect of targets which related to: Operating profit 224.6m 229.2m 233.8m 237.2m Return on regulated equity 7.0% 9.0% 11% 12.6% 17.56% Net debt Totex outperformance The achievement of a range of service improvements relating to bathing water quality, SIM, leakage, wastewater compliance, pollutions, resolution of operational contacts, duration of supply interruptions, asset reliability and employee engagement.
Average Viridor directors performance 20% weighting The average of the bonus earned by the executive directors of Viridor in respect of targets which related to: EBITDA JVs 119.6m 132.9m 146.2m 142.5m Budgeted restructuring savings 56.1m 59.0m 62.0m 58.7m 14.82% Sales revenue 731.9m 770.4m 808.9m 785.0m Environmental compliance events 11 3 Personal strategic objectives 30% weighting Review of the Groups funding strategy, in light of growth requirements and changes to the SWW regulatory framework Reviewing and optimising finance resources and support throughout the Group.
Successful centralisation of procurement and property teams, and completion of the review of financial advisors leading to appointment of new brokers 27.82% Successful delivery of plan to deliver reduction in overheads and cost base.
Development of the Growth Board to review growth opportunities across the Group Successful completion of 2016 review of pension valuation and funding position, ensuring appropriate risk and funding exposure Total outturn 85.03% some objectives and the detailed targets continue to be commercially confidential Ian McAulay Ian McAulay stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016 and left the Group on 31 December 2016.
He did not receive a bonus for the year ended31March 2017.
Performance and Co-investment Plan outturn for 2016 17 The PCP awards made on 14 July 2014, which are due to vest on 14 July 2017, are the awards included in the single figure table.
The extent to whichtheawards will vest is subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions that were in place at the time the awards were made: 50% of the award vests subject to the Companys TSR performance measured against an index made up of the following six listed comparator companies: National Grid Plc Sch Environnement Severn Trent Shanks Group Suez Environnement United Utilities The remaining 50% of the award vests subject to the Companys ranked TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Currently it is estimated that the outturn will result in a 43.7% vesting as set out in the table below.
The calculation of TSR performance from the start of the performance period on 1 April 2014 to 10 May 2017 was undertaken by Deloitte LLP for theCommittee.
Threshold 30% of Maximum 100% of Achievement in the maximum vests maximum vests period to 1 April 2017 Vesting outturn Comparator index 50% of award Equal to index 15% above theindex 4.87% above the index 26.4% At or above FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 50% of award Above 50th percentile 75thpercentile 52.0% 17.3% TOTAL 43.7% Straight-line vesting between points.
For below threshold performance, 0% vests.
A s the calculation requires averaging TSR performance over the first three months of the performance period and comparing it to the average over the three months following the endoftheperformance period 1 April 2017 to 30 June 2017 the achievement and the outturn is an estimate at the date of calculation 11 May 2017 Vesting of an award is also subject to the underpin described on page 80 which the Committee has determined to the date of this report would besatisfied.
91 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual report on remuneration continued Retirement benefits and entitlements audited information Details of the Directors pension entitlements and pension-related benefits during the year are as follows: Company Value of contributions Cash Normal defined to defined allowances retirement Accrued benefit contribution in lieu Total value age and date pension at i pension arrangements of pension for the year for pension 31 March 2017 000 000 000 000 purposes 000 Chris Loughlin 153 153 67 20 August 2019 ii Susan Davy 25 84 109 65 17 May 2034 18 iii Ian McAulay 40 18 58 65 25 April 2030 i The value of the defined benefit pension accrued over the period comprises the total pension input amount which has been calculated in line with regulatory requirements less the pension contributions paid by the Director.
ii Accrued pension is based on service to the year end and final pensionable salary at that date.
iii Continued to receive pension benefits until cessation of employment on 31 December 2016.
Chris Loughlin is not a member of any of the Pennon Groups pension schemes and receives a sum in lieu of pension entitlement equivalent to 30% of salary.
Susan Davy receives an overall pension benefit from the Company equivalent to 25% of her salary which, in 2016 17 comprised an employers contribution of 13,554 and a cash sum of 83,946.
She is a member of Pennon Groups defined benefit pension arrangements and is entitled to normal retirement pension payable from age 65 of broadly 1 80th of pensionable remuneration for each year of pensionable service completed.
The employers contribution to the pension for Susan Davy is deducted from the overall pension allowance.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase at a rate of 5% p. a. or RPI if lower for service accrued in the period up to 30 June 2014 and at a rate of 2.5% pa or CPI if lower for service accrued in the period after this date.
If a Director dies within five years of retiring, a lump sum equal to the balance of five years pension payments is paid plus a spouses pension of one half of the members pension.
Pensions may also be payable to dependants and children.
Ian McAulay was a member of Pennon Groups defined contribution arrangement and received an overall pension benefit from the Company equivalent to 20% of his salary until the cessation of his employment on 31 December 2016.
No additional benefits will become receivable by a Director in the event that the Director retires early.
Director changes additional information Payments in connection with leaving arrangements Ian McAulay audited information Ian McAulay, stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
He left the employment of Viridor Waste Management Limited, on 31 December 2016, atwhichpoint salary and benefits ceased to be paid.
Mr McAulay did not receive an annual bonus award in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017.
The treatment of Ian McAulays share awards was in line with the Companys remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM : Awards made to Mr McAulay in 2014, 2015 and 2016 under the Performance and Co-investment Plan were forfeited in accordance with the Rules ofthePlan Deferred shares allocated to Mr McAulay in 2014, 2015 and 2016 pursuant to the Annual Incentive Bonus Plan, which related to previous performance periods, were released to him following cessation of his employment on 31 December 2016 at an aggregate value of 269,784.
The 3,651 ESOS options granted in 2014 in association with Mr McAulays 2014 deferred bonus share award lapsed upon his stepping down from the Board Deferred shares allocated to Mr McAulay as a buyout award upon his appointment as Chief Executive, Viridor, were released to him on 30 September 2016 being the end of the three-year restricted period together with additional shares in lieu of shares that could have been acquired with the amount of each cash dividend on the released shares during the restricted period.
Outside appointments Executive Directors may accept one board appointment in another company.
Board approval must be sought before accepting an appointment.
Fees may be retained by the Director.
Currently, no Executive Directors hold outside company appointments other than with industry bodies or governmental or quasi-governmental agencies.
92 Non-Executive Director fees and benefits The Non-Executive Directors fees were increased by the Board for 2016 17 by amounts ranging from 0.6% to 7.3%, to reflect principally changed responsibilities and additional commitments arising from the revised Board governance structure.
The Chairmans increase approved by the Committee was 1.5%.
The Chairmans benefits comprise provision of a driver and vehicle, when appropriate for the efficient carrying out of his duties.
He is entitled to expenses on the same basis as for the other Non-Executive Directors.
All employee, performance and other contextual information Historical TSR The graph below shows the value, over the eight year period ended on 31 March 2017, of 100 invested in Pennon Group on 1 April 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
This index is considered appropriate as it is a broad equity market index of which the Company isa constituent.
Total Shareholder Return Since April 2009 Total shareholder return TSR 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Apr-09 Apr-10 Apr-11 Apr-12 Apr-13 Apr-14 Apr-15 Apr-16 Apr-17 Pennon FTSE 250 Equivalent chief executive officer remuneration As the Company did not have a Group Chief Executive Officer until 1 January 2016, the Committee has provided historic single figure information in the form of the average remuneration of the Executive Directors for years up to and including 2014 15.
Their remuneration was considered to be the most appropriate to use as they were the most senior executives in the Company.
For 2015 16 the Committee has provided the average remuneration for the Executive Directors excluding the Group CEO and the Group CEOs remuneration for the year, as explained in footnotes i and ii below.
For 2016 17, the Group CEOs remuneration for the year is shown.
ii Group CEO for the year, including remuneration received between 1 April 2015 and 31 December 2015 when in position as Chief Executive, South West Water.
iii Group CEO - first complete year in role.
iv The long-term incentive plan LTIP vesting percentage excludes accrued dividends which are added on vesting.
v The LTIP vesting percentage is an estimate as at 11 May 2017.
Comparison of CEO remuneration to employeeremuneration The table below shows the percentage change between 2015 16 and 2016 17 in base salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Group CEO from hisappointment on 1 January 2016, and allemployees.
The percentage increase in average remuneration for employees is calculated using wages and salaries excluding share-based payments of 157.1 million 2015 16 158.0 million, analysed into the three components in the table and the average number of employees of 4,799 2015 16 4,987 both as detailed in note 13 to the Group financial statements.
Percentage change Percentage change Percentage change in salary in benefits in annual bonus CEO remuneration n a n a n a All employees 3.31% 0.00% 0.00% Prior to 1 January 2016 there was no CEO of Pennon Group.
The increase in remuneration for Chris Loughlin, following promotion to Group Chief Executive Officer of Pennon from his previous position as Chief Executive, South West Water, is set out in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 89 andis not directly comparable with the general increases to all-employees across the Group.
The increase in bonus outturn as a percentage of maximum was 0.1%.
The salary increase for 2017 18 is 1.5%.
93 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual report on remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 17 2015 16 million million Percentage change i Overall expenditure on pay 179.9 180.0 -0.2% Distributions to ordinary shareholders 138.5 129.5 6.9% Distributions to perpetual capital security holders 20.3 20.3 0.0% Purchase of property, plant and equipment cash flow 354.1 283.7 24.8% i Excludes non-underlying items.
The above table illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with distributions to equity holders.
The purchase of property, plant and equipment cash flow has also been included as this was the most significant outgoing for the Company in the last financial year.
Share award and shareholding disclosures audited information Share awards granted during 2016 17 The table below sets out details of share awards made in the year to Executive Directors.
Percentage vesting at Performance Face value threshold restricted Executive Director Type of interest Basis of award 000 performance period end date Chris Loughlin 510 100% of 30% of Susan Davy PCP 390 31 March 2019 salary maximum i Ian McAulay 405 Chris Loughlin 178 50% of Deferred Susan Davy bonus 119 n a 4 July 2019 bonus awarded Ian McAulay 119 i This award lapsed when Ian McAulay stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
PCP awards were calculated using the share price at close on 29 June 2016, which was 9.20 per share.
The date of grant was 1 July 2016.
Deferred bonus awards were calculated using the share price at which shares were purchased on the market on 1 July 2016 in order to satisfy the award, which was 9.5014.
Directors shareholding and interest in shares The Remuneration Committee believes that the interests of Executive Directors and senior management should be closely aligned with the interests of shareholders.
To support this, the Committee operates shareholding guidelines.
For 2016 17, this guideline was 100% of salary for Executive Directors.
From 2017 18 the Committee has significantly increased these guidelines to 200% of salary for both the CEO and CFO.
94 The beneficial interests of the Executive Directors in the ordinary shares 40.7p each of the Company as at 31 March 2017 or date of cessation, if earlier and 31 March 2016 together with their shareholding guideline obligation based on the 2016 17 guideline of 100% of salary and interest are shown in the table below: Unvested awards Share interests Share interests Performance including including shares subject connected parties connected parties Shareholding Shareholding to performance Deferred i at 31 March 2017 at 31 March 2016 guideline guideline met?
conditions SAYE bonus shares ESOS Chris Loughlin 290,323 247,745 100% Yes 153,251 4,984 57,435 ii Susan Davy 57,119 44,197 100% Yes 100,382 2,635 29,876 iii Ian McAulay 18,748 18,748 No longer applicable i Details of options that vested under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and were exercised during the year are provided on page 97.
No share options are held that are vested but have not been exercised.
ii Susan Davys unvested awards include those she received in her previous position as finance and regulatory director, South West Water, which she retains an interest in following her appointment as Chief Financial Officer on 1 February 2015. iii In respect of Ian McAulay: Share interests shown are as at 31 August 2016, being the date he stepped down from the Board Unvested awards made to him under the Performance and Co-investment Plan numbering 137,831 performance awards have lapsed.
33,080 deferred bonus shares were released to him following cessation of his employment on 31 December 2016.
His buyout award of 16,091 deferred shares was released following the end of the three-year restricted period, on 30 September 2016.
His ESOS options, awarded to him on 27 August 2014, have lapsed.
Since 31 March 2017, 4,858 additional ordinary shares in the Company have been acquired by Chris Loughlin as a result of participation in the Companys scrip dividend alternative and the Companys Share Incentive Plan: and 59 additional ordinary shares in the Company have been acquired by Susan Davy as a result of participation in the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
There have been no other changes in the beneficial interests or the non-beneficial interests of the above Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company between 1 April 2017 and 22 May 2017.
Non-Executive Directors shareholding The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors, including the beneficial interests of their spouses, civil partners, children and stepchildren, in the ordinary shares 40.7p of the Company are shown in the table below: Shares held at Shares held at Director 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Sir John Parker 10,000 10,000 Martin Angle Neil Cooper Gill Rider 2,500 2,500 There have been no changes in the beneficial interests or the non-beneficial interests of the above Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company between 1 April 2017 and 22 May 2017.
There is no formal shareholding guideline for the Non-Executive Directors: however, they are encouraged to purchase shares in the Company.
Shareholder dilution The Company can satisfy awards under its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10 year period to employees under its share plans.
Within this 10% limit the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
The percentage of shares awarded within these guidelines and the headroom remaining available as at 22 May 2017 is as set out below: Awarded Headroom Total Discretionary schemes 1.48% 3.52% 5% All schemes 4.08% 5.92% 10% 95 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual report on remuneration continued Details of share awards a Performance and Co-investment Plan long-term incentive plan In addition to the above beneficial interests, the following Directors have or had a contingent interest in the number of ordinary shares 40.7p each of the Company shown below, representing the maximum number of shares to which they would become entitled under the plan should the relevant criteria be met in full: Value of Date of end Conditional shares upon Conditional of period for awards Conditional Market price vesting awards qualifying held at awards made upon award before tax held at conditions Vesting i Director and date of award 1 April 2016 in year in year in year 000 31 March 2017 to be fulfilled Chris Loughlin 02 07 13 57,810 653.00p 24,625 224 01 07 16 14 07 14 48,465 798.50p 48,465 13 07 17 01 07 15 49,352 810.50p 49,352 30 06 18 01 07 16 55,434 920.00p 55,434 30 06 19 ii Susan Davy 02 07 13 21,347 653.00p 9,093 83 01 07 16 14 07 14 17,893 798.50p 17,893 13 07 17 01 07 15 40,098 810.50p 40,098 30 06 18 01 07 16 42,391 920.00p 42,391 30 06 19 iii Ian McAulay 14 07 14 44,458 798.50p 13 07 17 01 07 15 49,352 810.50p 30 06 18 01 07 16 44,021 920.00p 30 06 19 i 37.9% of the July 2013 award shares vested on 1 July 2016 at a market price of 911.24p per share.
The total number of shares that vested included additional shares equivalent in value to such number of shares as could have been acquired by reinvesting the dividends which would otherwise have been received on the vested shares during the restricted period of three years.
The balance of the award lapsed.
ii A portion of Susan Davys share awards are those she received in her previous position as finance and regulatory director, South West Water, up to 31 January 2015, in which she retains an interest in her role as Chief Financial Officer.
iii Ian McAulays share awards lapsed upon his stepping down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
96 Payments to past Directors David Dupont, who retired as an Executive Director of the Company on 31 January 2015, remained entitled to a pro rata share of the PCP award made on2July 2013, his entitlement reflecting the proportion of the restricted period he was employed by the Company.
37.9% of the PCP award made on 2July2013 vested on 1 July 2016 and David Dupont received this award, together with additional shares to the value of accrued dividends on such shares, pro rated on the same basis as the award shares, amounting in total to 12,996 shares valued at 118,425 at the date of vesting.
The award made to DavidDupont on 14 July 2014 lapsed in its entirety, due to his retirement being before the financial year end of the year in which the award was made.
b Annual Incentive Bonus Plan deferred bonus shares long-term incentive element The following Directors had or have a contingent interest in the number of ordinary shares 40.7p each of the Company shown below, representing the total number of shares to which they have or would become entitled under the deferred bonus element of the Annual Incentive Bonus Plan the bonus plan at the end of the relevant qualifying period: Value of Date of end Conditional Market shares upon Conditional of period for awards Conditional price of each vesting awards qualifying held at awards made share upon Vesting before tax held at conditions to be fulfilled Director and date of award 1 April 2016 in year award in year in year 000 31 March 2017 Chris Loughlin ii 05 08 13 16,978 693.00p 16,040 141 04 08 16 27 08 14 19,552 821.50p 19,552 26 08 17 27 07 15 19,124 791.00p 19,124 26 07 18 04 07 16 18,759 950.14p 18,759 03 07 19 i Susan Davy ii 05 08 13 7,555 693.00p 6,617 58 04 08 16 27 08 14 7,543 821.50p 7,543 26 08 17 27 07 15 9,809 791.00p 9,809 26 07 18 04 07 16 12,524 950.14p 12,524 03 07 19 Ian McAulay iii 30 09 13 16,091 696.00p 18,087 150 29 09 16 iv 27 08 14 7,775 821.50p 7,775 63 26 08 17 iv 27 07 15 12,779 791.00p 12,779 104 26 07 18 iv 04 07 16 12,526 950.14p 12,526 102 03 07 19 i A portion of Susan Davys share awards are those she received in her previous position as finance and regulatory director, South West Water, up to 31 January 2015, in which she retains an interest in her position as Chief Financial Officer.
ii These shares were released on 25 August 2016 at 882.01p per share.
Executive share options granted in 2013 pursuant to the ESOS, in conjunction with the operation of the annual bonus plan, were exercised by the Directors on 18 August 2016.
Further details are provided below.
Deferred bonus shares equivalent in value to the gain on the ESOS options were forfeited.
iii Ian McAulays buyout award was released at the end of the three-year restricted period, on 30 September 2016, at 827.00p per share.
In addition, 1,996 shares were issued, being the number of shares that could have been acquired with the amount of each cash dividend on the released shares during the restricted period.
iv These shares were released on 6 January 2017 following cessation of Ian McAulays employment on 31 December 2016, at 815.55p per share.
ESOS options granted in conjunction with IanMcAulays 2014 bonus award lapsed upon his stepping down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
During the year the Directors received dividends on the above shares in accordance with the conditions of the bonus plan as follows: Chris Loughlin 23,026 : Susan Davy 11,259: Ian McAulay 9,798.
Chris Loughlin received his dividend in the form of ordinary shares 40.7p each in the Company as a result of participation in the Companys scrip dividend alternative.
These shares are included in the figure given for the additional ordinary shares 40.7p each inthe Company that he acquired since 31 March 2016 given on page 95. c Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The following Directors had a contingent interest in the number of options shown in the ordinary shares 40.7p each of the Company pursuant to the Companys ESOS.
Under the Companys new remuneration policy, the ESOS has been removed and executive share options are no longer offered in conjunction with deferred bonus shares.
Options Exercise Market price Options held at Granted Exercised price of each share held at Maturity Date of award 1 April 2016 in year in year per share on exercising 31 March 2017 date Chris Loughlin 05 08 13 4,329 4,329 693.00p 884.5p i Susan Davy 05 08 13 4,329 4,329 693.00p 884.5p ii Ian McAulay 27 08 14 3,651 821.50p i Susan Davys share options are those she received in her previous position as finance and regulatory director, South West Water, up to 31 January 2015, in which she retained an interest in her position as Chief Financial Officer.
ii Ian McAulays ESOS options lapsed following his stepping down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
97 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual report on remuneration continued d Sharesave scheme Details of options to subscribe for ordinary shares 40.7p each of the Company under the all-employee Sharesave scheme were: Market value Options Exercise Market price of each Options Exercise held at Granted Exercised price of each share share at held at period Date of award 1 April 2016 in year in year per share on exercising 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 maturity date Chris Loughlin 03 07 13 2,788 538.00p 811.00p 2,788 01 09 18 28 02 19 24 06 15 2,196 683.00p 811.00p 2,196 01 09 20 28 02 21 Susan Davy 24 06 15 2,635 683.00p 811.00p 2,635 01 09 18 28 02 19 The Remuneration Committee and its advisers Martin Angle Committee chairman, Neil Cooper and Gill Rider were members of the Committee throughout the year and at any time when the Committee considered any matter relating to Directors remuneration during the year.
During the year the Committee received advice or services which materially assisted the Committee in the consideration of remuneration matters from Sir John Parker Chairman of the Board, Helen Barrett-Hague Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Adele Barker interim Group director of Human Resources, and from Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP was appointed directly by the Committee.
Deloitte LLP assisted in the remuneration policy review for Executive Directors and in calculating the Companys total shareholder return compared with two comparator groups for the Companys long-term incentive plan, as well as providing advice on remuneration trends and market practice.
Deloitte LLPs fees inrespect of advice which materially assisted the Committee during 2016 17 were 88,330 arrived at from an hourly rate basis of charging.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided tax, corporate finance and risk advisory services to the Group.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received from Deloitte LLP has been objective and independent.
Statement of voting at general meeting The table below sets out the voting by the Companys shareholders on the resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report at the Annual General Meeting held on 1 July 2016, including votes for, against and withheld.
Annual report on remuneration 2016 AGM For % including votes at the Chairmans discretion 97.49 Against % 2.51 Withheld number 218,770 Remuneration policy 2014 AGM For % including votes at the Chairmans discretion 97.11 Against % 2.89 Withheld number 264,354 A vote withheld is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
The Remuneration Committee is pleased to note that over 97% of shareholders who voted approved the 2015 16 Directors remuneration report.
The Committee appreciates the continuing support of its shareholders.
98 Directors remuneration report compliance This Directors remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
It also complies with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The UK Corporate Governance Code also sets out principles of good governance relating to directors remuneration, and this report describes how these principles are applied in practice.
The Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
The above regulations also require the external auditorto report to shareholders on the audited information within the annual report on remuneration which is part of the Directors remuneration report.
The external auditor is obliged to state whether, in its opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Theexternal auditors opinion is set out on page 112 and the audited sections of the annual report on remuneration are identified in this report.
On behalf of the Board Martin D Angle Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2017 99 Governance
