INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section describes the Groups remuneration policy for Directors which applies for up to three years from approval at the Annual General Meeting on 14 September 2016.
The overarching principles of the remuneration policy are to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay that will enable the Group to ensure it has executives with the right skills and experience to drive the success of the Company, and that their remuneration is linked to shareholder interests and the Companys long-term success.
The remuneration philosophy is: to promote the long-term success of the Company, with stretching performance targets which are rigorously applied: to provide appropriate alignment between the Companys strategic goals, shareholder returns and executive reward: and to have a competitive mix of base salary and short and long-term incentives, with an appropriate proportion of the package determined by stretching targets linked to the Companys performance.
Executive Directors fixed and variable remuneration arrangements have been determined taking into account: the role, experience in the role, and performance of the Executive Director: the location in which the Executive Director is working: remuneration arrangements at UK listed companies of a similar size and complexity: remuneration arrangements at US high-technology companies of a similar size and complexity, including companies with which the Company competes for talent: and best practice guidelines for UK listed companies set by institutional investor bodies.
PURPOSE AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS Fixed pay: Base salary To attract and Base salaries are reviewed Executive Directors salary Individual and Group retain talent of the annually, with reference increases will normally be in performance is right calibre and to individual performance, line with those for the wider taken into account with the ability Group performance, market employee population.
However, when determining to contribute competitiveness, salary higher salary increases may be appropriate salary to strategy, by increases across the Group made where there is a change levels.
ensuring base and the position holders in role or responsibilities salaries are experience, competence and or a significant market competitive in criticality to the business.
the relevant Any increases are generally talent market.
68 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED PURPOSE AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY METRICS Fixed pay: Pension Provide postPension contributions are The CEO currently receives a None retirement provided, with a choice of matching contribution of up benefits for funding vehicles: US 401 k to 3 percent of salary under participants in savings plan for all US his US 401 k savings plan, a cost-efficient employees or group subject to the applicable manner.
The CFO receives up to 5 percent of salary as a contribution to a group personal pension scheme.
Other than in exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate pension benefits as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 20 percent of base salary.
Fixed pay: Benefits To provide Benefits currently include There is no overall maximum None competitive the provision of medical and value set out for benefits.
benefits for each dental insurance, life and They are set at a level that is role.
disability insurance, travel comparable to market practice insurance, personal tax and appropriate for individual return preparation, and car and Company circumstances.
The Committee retains the Reasonable relocation, discretion to amend benefits travel and subsistence in exceptional circumstances allowances and, in certain or in circumstances where circumstances, cash factors outside of the Groups allowances in respect of control have materially changed the associated tax charge e. g. increases in insurance and other benefits may be premiums.
provided based on individual circumstances.
