Governance and directors report REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Looking forward, we have retained theprofit-related financial measure in theexecutive director objectives to ensure that focus is retained on revenue generation and cost management.
Dear shareholders, number of shares according to the share consolidation that occurred.
I am pleased to present the remuneration report for 2016 17 recommending Similarly, although the TSR peer group is not as relevant as it was to the ICAP the NEX Group plc remuneration policy for 2017 18 and explaining how we business, it was deemed that it was no less challenging to the Group as a applied the current policy in 2016 17.
This policy was approved by ICAP plc relative measure and should also be retained for the 2015 and 2016 awards.
Looking forward, we have decided to retain the overarching principle of Completion of the sale of our voice broking business in December 2016 measuring 50% of PSP awards on absolute EPS growth and 50% on relative marked a major milestone in the development of the business, allowing it TSR growth, but have amended the targets to remove the influence of an tobecome a financial technology company.
The creation of NEX Group plc inflationary measure on EPS, in line with market practice.
We have also requires that we, as a committee, present a remuneration policy to changed the peer group from a selected basket of companies to the FTSE shareholders for approval.
Having considered this carefully, we have decided 250 index.
It is our view that nominating a relevant peer group for NEX from to re-present the current policy for approval for a period of one year only.
publicly traded companies is challenging and the index provides a clear Thecommittee considers this policy to be fit for purpose and, given that it comparator for relative performance.
has been in place for only two years, would prefer to undertake a review of executive director pay during the course of 2017 18, as the NEX strategy The annual report on remuneration describes the performance versus andculture develop and as the position on long term incentives becomes objectives during 2016 17 and how this translates into executive director clearer.
The committee will consult with major shareholders on a new remuneration.
This is the second year in which annual bonuses have been three-year policy towards the end of 2017, with a view to putting that to determined under the directors remuneration policy approved in 2015. shareholder vote in the 2018 annual general meeting.
This year the report includes a more detailed disclosure section, including The committee also considered awards made under the PSP in 2015 and financial targets.
Completion of the sale of the voice broking business 2016, and the performance conditions underpinning them.
Having reviewed means that the commercial sensitivity that made publication of targets a number of comparative financial models, it became clear that, although lastyear imprudent is no longer a restricting factor and, in years of normal the start and end points for the EPS measure differed with the voice broking business activity, the committee will publish targets in the disclosure each business factored out, the growth expectation over the period was largely year going forward.
With this in mind, the committee decided not to amend the The performance versus the objectives has been strong in 2016 17 and is EPSgrowth performance condition on these awards, but to only include representative of business performance overall.
thecontinuing business of NEX Group plc for the measure, and adjust the 56 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The financial objectives that account for 70% of the bonus outturn had implemented globally.
The Company also has a clear view on its culture two main themes: our growth and protection, which was sub-divided into going forward, and the dissemination of this throughout the business completing the sale of our voice broking business and generating incremental is ongoing.
revenue from strategic initiatives: and profitability, which was split between Overall, the performance of the executive directors was strong this year trading profit growth and creating a new structure for the Group.
during a period of significant change, and has resulted in a bonus outturn Completion of the sale of the voice broking business was a binary objective of 78% of the maximum, fractionally higher than in 2016.
Both the Group which carried much less weight than the requirement to generate incremental Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer have elected to revenue.
Revenue generation from strategic initiatives was not as strong as defer 100% of the bonus awarded to them into NEX Group plc shares.
we had hoped but this will remain a priority for the business, alongside The BSMP 2014 matching award did not vest as it failed to meet the prudent cost management, to drive profits in the future.
This was the final year of the BSMP following Due to completion of the Transaction taking place nine months into the year, the adoption of the PSP in 2015 and subsequently by NEX.
trading operating profit was based on 12 months of the continuing business Looking forward, we have retained the profit-related financial measure in and nine months of the discontinued business.
This was compared to theexecutive director objectives to ensure that focus is retained on revenue 12 months of continuing business and nine months of discontinued generation and cost management.
In addition to this we are including a business in 2015 16.
The initial design of the Group structure for NEX is client-focused objective to the financial measures that rewards attraction complete and in the process of being implemented.
Thisstructure has and retention of clients, and also rewards improved relationships and client already begun to produce cost savings.
This is a key priority for the Company.
The strategic objectives for The strategic objectives that account for 30% of the bonus outturn also the coming year are based around the communication of the NEX Group hadtwo main themes: risk and control and people and culture.
strategy, both internally and externally, such that all employees can clearly articulate that strategy and work by its values.
Strategic focus willalso be on The risk and control framework has been a focus for the Group for a the continued development of the operating model.
Significant progress has numberof years.
It is now the view of the committee that the design and been made during 2016 17 to design and implement the Group structure.
implementation phases of this work are complete, and that the framework This highlighted a number of additional areas where cost savings could be is sufficiently well embedded in the business to be considered business as achieved and it is key that we develop these and work towards the most usual.
Risk and control will continue to be key priority and will remain under efficient model possible.
constant review to ensure that it is appropriate and fit for purpose, although will no longer be measured for the purposes of executive director bonuses.
The directors remuneration policy will be put to a binding vote and the remuneration report other than the part containing the directors People and culture was split into themes: the design and delivery of a remuneration policy will be put to an advisory vote at the 2017 annual reward framework and of a new corporate brand and culture.
In the case of general meeting.
We look forward to receiving your support.
the reward framework, the design is complete and is being rolled out to the business for the coming year.
It is designed to reward strong performance and provide an appropriate balance of compensation for the content and Robert Standing seniority of each role in the business.
The NEX brand was launched on Chairman, Remuneration Committee 30 December 2016 when the Transaction completed and was successfully 15 May 2017 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 57 Governance and directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY ICAP plc presented the following policy to shareholders at the annual general meeting in July 2015 when it was approved by binding vote.
With the exception of an amendment to limit the committees discretion in respect of the recruitment of a new executive director the policy has remained unchanged.
This was described in ICAP plcs 2016 remuneration report.
Further to the Transaction, the committee is required to seek approval ofthedirectors remuneration policy for NEX at the 2017 annual general meeting.
Given that the current policy has, however, been in place for only two years, the committee has decided to retain the current policy for afurther year which, if approved, will apply from the date of the 2017 NEX annual general meeting.
A full review of the policy will be undertaken during 2017, with a view toseeking shareholder approval for a new directors remuneration policy totake effectfrom 1 April 2018.
Future policy table for executive directors The table below summarises the directors remuneration policy in respect ofeach component of remuneration for executive directors.
Purpose and link to Element of pay NEXs strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Reflects individual Salaries are reviewed annually Maximum levels of salary have not There are no specific roleand experience.
in the context of the total been set by the committee but performance conditions remuneration opportunity.
executive director salary increases will attached to salary increases, Set at a level to attract Factors considered include: normally bein line with the wider although overall performance the right talent into the employee population.
of the individual and the Group to deliver the size and scope of individual Company will be one of the responsibilities: Higher increases than the average for business strategy.
considerations in setting the wider employee population may be skills, experience and salary levels.
performance: awarded in exceptional circumstances, at the Remuneration Committees typical salary levels for comparable roles within discretion, including a significant appropriate pay comparators: increase in scope and or responsibility and ofthe individuals role, rebalancing of fixed and variable pay or to take into reward levels and structure below the board.
account any future regulatory changes.
Where an executive director has been Any increase usually takes effect appointed to the board at a lower than from 1 April.
The committee typical salary, larger increases may be mayaward increases at any other awarded as they develop in the role.
time, for example where there isasignificant change in the  of the executivedirector.
Pension Element of remuneration Directors are normally enrolled The maximum pension contribution is None to assist employees with inthe relevant pension plan equivalent to 5% of salary.
ifany forsenior managers opt out of the defined contribution plan intheircountryof residence.
operated in the UK and instead receive an equivalent cash allowance.
A bonus sacrifice arrangement is also offered.
Individual arrangements are shown on page 64.
58 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Purpose and link to Element of pay NEXs strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits Element of remuneration Executive directors are eligible to Benefits are generally set taking into None to provide a competitive receive certain benefits that vary account affordability and local market and cost-effective bydirector and may include but practice for comparable roles.
arenot limited to medical, life The committee has not set a maximum insurance, car and travel benefits limit for benefits.
reflecting the directors location The benefit policy and levels are kept andindividual circumstances.
under review and the committee may The current Group Chief Executive remove benefits that executive directors Officer has the use of a driver, receive or introduce other benefits if it inorder to recognise the unique considers it appropriate.
circumstances of the role and the travel requirements involved.
In certain circumstances our executive directors may be accompanied by their spouse partner on business trips.
This will only be where there isa genuine business reason.
The value of actual benefits received is shown on page 65.
Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete aninternational assignment, or perform duties outside their homelocation, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional expatriate benefits, if considered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
This may include cover for additional taxation and support with tax reporting.
Annual bonus The annual bonus plan The level of award is determined The maximum annual bonus At least 70% of the annual incentivises executive bythe Remuneration Committee opportunity is 300% of salary.
bonus opportunity is assessed directors to achieve the based on performance against against financial measures.
Companys key financial therelevant performance criteria.
The balance will be subject metrics and strategic Awards are delivered in a tostrategic and or individual objectives, while also combination of cash and shares, objectives.
aligning their interests with at least 50% deferred for at The committee retains the with those of our least three years into NEX Group plc right to adjust the balance of shareholders.
A further the measures on an annual Deferral of a significant six-month retention period may basis.
The financial element, proportion of the bonus alsobe applied on awards under however, will always have a into shares helps to align theDSBP.
greater weighting than the the long-term interests The committee may award dividend strategic individual element.
of executives with those equivalents in respect of dividends Payouts will range from zero of our shareholders.
declared over the deferral period.
to 100% of the maximum, Dividend equivalent payments with 50% of the maximum aremade at the end of the deferral payable for achieving period in either cash or shares.
The committee may apply malus or clawback to annual bonus awards in certain exceptional circumstances.
Further details on malus and clawback provisions are provided inthe notes to the table.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 59 Governance and directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and link to Element of pay NEXs strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance The Groups long term Annual award of NEX Group plc The maximum PSP opportunity is Performance measures Share Plan incentive plan is to shares subject to performance 300%of salary.
include the Companys PSP reward sustained conditions over a period of at least financial performance and a Company performance three years.
share price-based measure and the creation of which will usually be equally An additional holding period of shareholder value weighted.
These measures are at least two years will apply overtime.
reviewed regularly to ensure following vesting.
that they remain appropriate Participants may receive a payment to business strategy, are equivalent to the value of dividends sufficiently challenging paid on any vested shares when the and remain appropriate participant receives those shares for incentivising executive atthe end of the holding period.
In future, the Payment of dividend equivalents committee may decide that may be in either cash or shares.
itis appropriate to introduce additional measures such as The committee may apply malus NEX Groups key long-term orclawback to PSP awards.
In any details on malus and clawback case, at least 80% of the provisions are provided in the award will continue to notesto the table.
bebased on financial and share price-based measures.
Threshold performance results in 25% vesting, risingto full vesting for maximum performance.
ShareTo create alignment Executive directors are required to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, a holding in the Companys holding withshareholders shares.
The minimum shareholding requirement for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary requirement byencouraging and for the other executive directors is 300% of base salary.
Notes to the policy table Changes since last approved policy The committee has made two changes to the policy approved by ICAP shareholders in 2015: to remove the ability of the committee to approve compensation that sits outside the policy when hiring a new director: and to extend the malus and clawback provisions on share awards from five years to seven years.
Legacy matters The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed: before this or a prior policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration forthe individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
In particular, under the 2003 BSMP, a bonus in lieu of dividend is paid on vested but unexercised awards.
Performance conditions The performance conditions for both the annual bonus and PSP are selected to align directly with our shortand long-term strategy.
The profit before tax and EPS measures under the annual bonus and PSP incentivise the achievement of continuing financial growth, with the TSR measure providing a direct link to the creation of shareholder value.
We also use strategic measures to focus on the achievement of thekey shortand long-term strategic objectives of the Company.
Performance targets are set annually by the committee taking into account the boards business plans and building in an appropriate level of stretch.
Thecommittee may vary both measures and targets year by year to ensure that they remain fully aligned with our strategy and continue to be reflective ofthe Companys business plans.
More detail on the annual bonus and PSP measures and targets can be found on pages 70 and 71.
60 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Malus and clawback All variable pay may be subject to malus and clawback in any of the following circumstances, for a period of up to seven years in line with corporate governance timeframes: a material misstatement of the Companys or any other Group members audited financial results: a material failure of risk management by the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit: misconduct or material error on the part of the participant: or a material downturn in the financial performance of the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit malus only.
Malus and clawback parameters will remain under review in line with regulatory guidance.
Future policy table for the Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose and link to the Groups strategy Operation and fee levels To attract and retain a high-performing The Chairman receives a fee for the role, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman Chairman and non-executive directors is entitled to an additional fee for the chairmanship of the Nomination Committee, but has waived his withtheright level of skills, international entitlement to this additional fee.
The non-executive directors receive an annual fee in respect of their duties.
Further fees may be paid in respect of chairmanship of board committees and for the senior independent director.
No fees are paid for membership of a board committee.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who sit on theboard of the SEF entities and or any other subsidiary boards due to the additional time commitment required for discharging these roles.
Non-executive directors fees are considered and approved by the executive directors and the Chairman.
Fees are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individuals required by the Company.
Fees are reviewed regularly against comparable companies and may be adjusted from time to time.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed orpaid for directly by the Company, as appropriate.
The Chairman is provided with an office and is reimbursed for a proportion of the cost of a car and driver to assist with the performance of his duties.
The current fee levels can be found on page 71.
Recruitment policy In determining remuneration for new appointments to the board, the committee will apply the following principles: the committee will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the calibre of the individual, the external market and existing arrangements for the Companys current executive directors, with a view to ensuring that any arrangements offered are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders and without paying any more than is necessary: and the committee will seek to align new executive directors remuneration packages with the remuneration policy as set out above.
Components and approach Pay on recruitment will be consistent with the usual policy for executive directors, as set out in the policy table.
Where the new appointment is replacing a previous executive director, salaries, pension and total remuneration opportunity may be higher or lower than the previous incumbent dependent on skills and experience.
Where an executive director is appointed from within the Group, the normal policy of the Company is that any existing arrangements would be honoured inline with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is appointed following an acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Maximum level of variable pay The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to a new executive director in respect of their appointment shall be limited to that set out in the policy table above for each component of remuneration.
This excludes any one-off awards made to compensate the director for awards forfeited from their previous employer.
Buy-outs In order to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make a one-off award to buy out incentive awards and any other compensation arrangements that anew director has had to forfeit on leaving their previous employer.
In doing so, the committee will take into account all relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the likelihood of these conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award for example cash or shares.
Where possible, the forfeited awards will normally be bought out on a like-for-like basis.
The committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining any possible buy-out arrangements.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 61 Governance and directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Contractual terms The Companys policy on notice periods is up to 12 months notice by the Company or executive director to provide a reasonable balance between theneedto retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
Recruitment of Chairman and non-executive directors In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or non-executive director, their remuneration framework will be in line with the table set out onpage 71.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Executive directors Key terms relating to NEXs policy in the event of termination of an executive directors employment are set out in the table below.
Provision Policy Notice period Up to 12 months notice by the Company or executive director.
Termination payment Contractual entitlement would be limited to salary and benefits including pension over the notice period.
The Company would normally expect executive directors to mitigate any loss on their departure.
Incentive plans Participation in all incentive plans is non-contractual and at the committees discretion.
Annual bonus An executive director will not be eligible to receive an annual bonus unless the committee, in its absolute discretion, decides otherwise.
In determining whether to award a bonus, the committee will assess performance during the financial year and apply pro rata as deemed appropriate.
It will normally be the case that a proportion of any bonus would continue to be deferred under the DSBP see below.
The committee, however, reserves the right to make any such payment in cash with no requirement to deferany bonus.
DSBP Unvested awards will lapse except in certain circumstances such as ill-health, injury or disability, the participants employing companyceasing to be a Group member, or any other reason and, at the committees discretion other than in the case of summary dismissal, when deferred awards under the DSBP will vest at the normal time.
The number of shares released insuchcircumstances will be determined by the committee in its absolute discretion, taking into account the period until cessation ofemployment.
In the case of death, awards will vest after the date of death.
PSP Unvested awards will lapse except in certain circumstances such as ill-health, injury or disability, the participants employing company ceasing to be a Group member, or any other reason and, at the committees discretion other than in the case of summary dismissal, when PSP awards will vest and be released at the normal time.
The number of shares released in such circumstances will be determined by the committee in its absolute discretion, taking into account the period until cessation of employment.
Inthe case of death, awards will vest after the date of death.
If the individual leaves prior to the release of awards but after the end of the vesting period, the awards will continue to be released at the end of the holding period, except on the grounds of summary dismissal, in which case they will lapse.
The key termination provisions of the Groups current executive directors contracts are set out below: Michael Spencer Michael Spencers notice period is 12 months.
He is entitled to receive salary and benefits for the duration of his notice period.
His contract includes a pay inlieu of notice clause which allows the Company to make a payment equal to this amount in lieu of any applicable period of notice.
He may be eligible to receive a discretionary bonus.
Stuart Bridges Stuart Bridges notice period is 12 months from the Company, six months from the employee.
62 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Change of control In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding up of the Company, DSBP and PSP awards will vest at that time, taking into account, unless the board determines otherwise, the extent to which any performance conditions have been met and the time elapsed since the grant date.
The committee, however, may require or permit individuals to exchange any awards for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not haveservice contracts.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below.
Provision Policy Notice period Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not entitled to compensation on leaving the board, other than fees in respect ofanynotice period.
There is no notice period, other than in the event of change in control for non-executive directors excluding the Chairman inwhich case a three-month notice period will apply.
Availability of documentation Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group and wider employment conditions There are consistent overarching principles of remuneration which apply across the Group.
Given the nature of our business, there is no single structure of remuneration that applies to all employees throughout the Group.
A significant element of pay, however, is performance-linked, ensuring that all NEXs employees are focused on delivering strong financial results and achieving our strategic goals.
For members of the GEMG and other senior executives in the Group, a proportion of remuneration is deferred into Company shares, ensuring long-term alignment with the interests of our shareholders.
The committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group when determining remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
NEX manages the costs of employment at the corporate level and expects changes in total remuneration for directors to reflect changes in the Companys performance.
Notwithstanding a change in structure of the overall package for the executive directors, changes in salary are normally aligned to both policy and practice for increases for the wider employee base in terms of annual increases, market positioning and adjustments for promotions and changes of role.
Director remuneration over time is expected to correlate with corporate performance and as such has the potential to be much more volatile than that ofthe wider employee base.
The Company does not consult directly with employees on the policy but information relating to employee remuneration is provided in regular updates tothe committee.
Consideration of shareholder views The committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks the view of its largest shareholders when any major changes are being made to remuneration policy and arrangements for executive directors.
Minor amendments The committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for any such amendments.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 63 Governance and directors report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Charts illustrating the application of the directors remuneration policy The charts below illustrate the policy for 2017 18 in line with the policy table on pages 58 to 63.
The charts show hypothetical values for the remuneration package for executive directors under three different performance scenarios: Minimum Fixed elements of pay only No bonus payout or vesting under the PSP Performance in line with expectations Fixed elements of pay 50% of maximum annual bonus payout i. e. 150% of salary for Group Chief Executive Officer and 100% for Group Chief Financial Officer 25% of maximum vesting under the PSP i. e. 75% of salary for Group Chief Executive Officer and 50% for Group Chief Financial Officer Maximum Fixed elements of pay 100% of maximum annual bonus payout i. e. 300% of salary for Group Chief Executive Officer and 200% for Group Chief Financial Officer 100% of maximum vesting under the PSP i. e. 300% of salary for Group Chief Executive Officer and 200% for Group Chief Financial Officer Michael Spencer, Group Chief Executive O cer Stuart Bridges, Group Chief Financial O cer 6,000,000 5,316,000 42.3% 5,000,000 4,000,000 3,000,000 2,524,000 2,503,000 42.3% 39.6% 22.5% 1,274,000 2,000,000 44.9% 19.6% 39.6% 816,000 1,000,000 524,000 39.3% 100% 32.6% 15.3% 100% 41.1% 20.8% Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum expectations performance expectations performance PSP Annual bonus including deferral Fixed pay including pension Pension cash Salary Benefits allowance With effect In line Total from 1 April Anticipated with fixed 2017 2017 18 policy pay Group Chief Executive Officer 750,000 33,186 32,325 815,511 Group Chief Financial Officer 500,000 2,221 21,550 523,771 64 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The information in this section up to and including the statement of directors shareholding and share interests section is subject to audit.
The complete annual report on remuneration is subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the years ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016.
b Benefits the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the financial year.
Benefits vary for each executive director but include medical, life insurance, car and travel benefits.
Michael Spencer also hasthe use of a driver.
c Annual bonus this represents the bonus awarded in respect of the 2016 17 performance year, at least 50% of which will be deferred into NEX Group plc shares under the DSBP.
d Pension cash allowance neither executive director participated in a pension plan during the year.
e Payment in lieu of dividend the amounts shown reflect payments in lieu of dividends received on legacy awards including the basic and matching awards for 2008 and basic awards granted under the BSMP for 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. f Buy-out awards this represents the buy-out award paid to Stuart Bridges on his appointment as Group Finance Director in 2015 and detailed in this report last year.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 65 Governance and directors report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table 2016 17 annual bonus The bonus plan was structured to incentivise executive directors to meet corporate objectives of investing to achieve growth and profitability, continuing topromote the corporate culture through strong risk-aware leadership and aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
The plan was designed so that progress and achievements in the past 12 months can be recognised and rewarded, with a significant proportion deferred for a period of three years to ensure ongoing alignment and positive behaviours.
During 2016 17 the executive directors were measured against the key financial and strategic goals set by the committee at the start of the year.
The table below shows the content of the goals, the weighting applied to each goal, and the committees assessment of the executive directors performance and level of achievement.
Financial objectives 70% Objective Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Achievement Narrative Growth and protection Complete the sale of 20% Binary 100% The sale of IGBB was completed on IGBB to TP ICAP target 30 December 2016.
Completion was complex because of the requirements of the Competitions and Markets Authority which could have significantly delayed completion.
The management of these requirements alongside other complexities means that the committee is comfortable applying a 100% achievement rating.
Generate incremental 20% 5% prior 7.5% prior 10% prior 38% We have seen incremental revenue growth in revenue fromstrategic year revenue year revenue year revenue products launched in the past two years across business initiatives the product group.
Notable are EBS Direct eFix and the TriOptima group of products.
Significant revenue growth came from the CFETS contract.
The target set was to achieve a 7.5% increase in prior year total revenue from new products.
Profitability Achieve trading 40% 100% 106% 110% 63% Reported trading operating profit is 107% operating profit of 100% of prior year.
This is based on 12 months to 110% compared to of continuing business and nine months the prior year of discontinued business compared to the same periods of the prior year.
Deliver a Group 20% 70% 85% 100% 100% This objective has been met and included a structure post review of the key support areas and their completion of the purpose, function, design and target structure.
Transaction to achieve a Implementation has commenced and savings focused cost base that are being realised.
As a result of the review, delivers savings versus further cost savings have been identified and prior year it has been agreed that the work should be extended into the new financial year.
Financial objectives 70% 73% 66 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Strategic objectives 30% Objective Weighting Achievement Narrative Controls and governance Design and adopt 25% 100% This objective has been fully met with strong monitoring of the control environment and acontrol, risk and the governance in place throughout the process of separating the business resulting in no governance framework gaps during the separation or after completion of the sale of IGBB.
forthe Group Overall high-level project monitoring has been established for NEX Markets and NEX Optimisation.
In addition development categorisation has been reviewed and is likely to present opportunities for cost savings in the future.
More adaptation is still required for the NEX business, but is well underway.
Adapt a framework for 25% 100% The agreed framework has been successfully adapted to deal with the unique challenges the Group to manage of information risk management and technology.
This is key to the protection of the assets information utilised by our clients and within the business.
technologyand The committee agreed that the controls and governance environment in the business is information robust and appropriate.
While it remains a key ongoing consideration for all parts of the riskmanagement business and will continue to develop, it is now sufficiently embedded that it should no longer be a formal objective for bonus purposes.
People and culture Deliver a Group reward 25% 80% A reward framework has been produced and delivered that simplifies the offering to framework for NEX employees, rewards appropriately and fairly and reflects the achievement of objectives and targets that contribute to the long-term success of the Group and behaviours that are collaborative and reflect the culture of the business.
Design and launch a 25% 80% The NEX brand was launched on 30 December 2016 on completion of the sale of IGBB.
strongnew corporate The entire business was rebranded globally externally and internally by 3 January 2017. brand and culture for The Company also has clarity on its culture going forward, and the dissemination of this NEX throughout the business is ongoing.
Strategic objectives 30% 90% The Remuneration Committee determined that the targets and achievements in the above table were a fair reflection of performance during the year.
Thebonus payout for both executive directors was 78% of maximum.
Executive directors are required to defer at least 50% of bonus payments into NEX Group plc shares vesting after three years.
In line with the remuneration policy approved at the 2015 annual general meeting, no matching awards will be made.
For 2016 17 bonus awards both the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer have elected to defer 100% into NEX Group plc shares.
2014 BSMP matching award The BSMP matching award granted in 2014 under the legacy arrangements was subject to a performance condition based on trading EPS with graduated vesting where 10% of the matching award will vest at RPI 6% per annum, increasing to 100% vesting at RPI 15% per annum over a three-year period.
The EPS targets were not met at any level, therefore the award did not vest.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 67 Governance and directors report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Details of share awards granted in the year 2016 PSP award On 24 May 2016, PSP awards were granted to the two executive directors as shown in the table below.
Threshold Maximum Number Face vesting % of vesting % of End of Type of award of shares value face value face value performance period Michael Spencer PSP conditional share award based on performance 521,497 2,242,124 25% 100% 31 March 2019 Stuart Bridges PSP conditional share award based on performance 231,776 996,498 25% 100% 31 March 2019 The face value of the awards is based on the average closing price for the five business days following 16 May 2016, being the preliminary announcement date of the 2015 16 financial results 4.2994.
The committee selected a combination of trading EPS and relative TSR as the performance conditions on the basis that it safeguards the progress that has been made in the Groups performance and underpins continuing forward growth in the Groups earnings and therefore promotes the long-term success of the Company.
The performance condition for the 2016 award is based on graduated vesting where 25% of the award will vest at EPS growth of CPI 20% over the three-year period and TSR performance at the median level versus the agreed peer group as set out in last years remuneration report, increasing to 100% vesting at EPS growth of CPI 45% over the three-year period and TSR performance at the upper quartile level versus the agreed peer group.
The EPS and TSR performance conditions are measured independently and are not contingent on one another.
Payments to past directors Payments in line with those previously disclosed to ICAP plc shareholders were made in the year.
Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office have been made during the year.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Minimum shareholding guidelines for executive directors have been in place since 2012.
These shareholdings will be built up over time and, for these purposes, will include vested share awards under long term incentive plans but will not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under long term incentive plans or any unexercised options.
Any vested shares subject to a holding period under the PSP will count towards shareholding guidelines.
Other shares that count towards the guideline include those that are beneficially owned and shares held by the NEX Trust in respect of BSMP basic awards and any vested but not exercised BSMP matching and PSP awards.
The minimum shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary and for other executive directors is 300% of base salary.
The Group Chief Executive Officer had exceeded his target as at 31 March 2017, based on the share price at the close of business on that date.
The Group Chief Financial Officer was appointed in September 2015 and has five years from appointment to reach his target.
The table below details the share interests of the directors in office at 31 March 2017.
Outstanding Outstanding PSP awards PSP awards Share interests Share interests without with in NEX as at in ICAP plc as at Outstanding performance performance Outstanding Outstanding Director Note 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 DSBP awards condition condition BSMP awards SAYE options Charles Gregson 219,503 241,625 Michael Spencer 1, 2 3,839,742 3,889,383 394,020 694,759 3,608,215 4,476 Stuart Bridges 134,999 25,000 104,299 98,750 429,276 Ivan Ritossa 167,500 John Sievwright 26,927 20,873 Robert Standing 5,714 10,000 Notes 1.
Details of Michael Spencers shareholding, including his connected parties, are set out in a note to the substantial shareholders section on page 53.
The outstanding BSMP awards include the 2008 BSMP matching award which has vested and remains unexercised.
Between 31 March 2017 and 10 May 2017 there were no transactions by the directors in the Companys shares.
68 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions External appointments The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits to both the Company and executive directors serving as non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to take on non-executive directorships with other companies with the approval of the Nomination Committee.
Any fees arising from such appointments are retained by the individual.
Stuart Bridges received a fee of 45,500, which he retained, for his non-executive directorship of Caledonia Investments plc.
Total shareholder return The TSR on a holding of the Companys ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share indices for the eight financial years to 31 March 2017 is shown in the graph below.
As a constituent of the FTSE 250 when NEX was officially listed in December 2016, the Company considers both the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 the appropriate indices for comparison.
TSR is a measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment ofdividends.
Performance graph value of 100 invested 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NEX FTSE 100 FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer Previous policy Current policy 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Single total figure of remuneration 000 6,069 10,727 5,524 4,326 2,215 3,320 3,591 3,468 Percentage of maximum bonus paid n a n a 56% 41% 12% 25% 76% 78% Percentage of maximum BSMP opportunity vesting 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% No maximum bonus stated prior to 2011 12 Change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer compared with other employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded to the Group Chief Executive Officer compared with other employees of the Group between 2015 16 and 2016 17.
Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive Officer 0% - 62% 3% All other employees - 4% 7% - 13% NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 69 Governance and directors report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 17 2015 16 Change m m % Total remuneration 616 653 - 6% Dividends 142 141 1% The figures shown above reflect the combined ICAP employee group.
From 2017 18 all figures shown will reflect NEX employees only.
Statement of implementation of the directors remuneration policy in the coming year As stated in the Chairmans statement, thedirectors remuneration policy for NEX replicates the previous ICAP plc policy which was in place for only two years.
A full policy review will take placein 2017 18 and a new three-year remuneration policy for the Group will be presented for shareholder approval at the 2018 annual general meeting.
We consider that the proposed remuneration arrangements for 2017 18: reflect the priorities of the business for the year: complement business culture and demonstrate good governance: align with the interests of shareholders: and provide transparency.
Further details are set out below.
Salary Salary levels from 1 April 2017 are shown below.
Salary % increase Group Chief Executive Officer 750,000 0% Group Chief Financial Officer 500,000 0% Pension and benefits Both executive directors receive a cash equivalent to the standard 5% of salary contribution to the UK defined contribution plan.
The cash equivalent is reduced to take account of employers national insurance contributions.
There will be no material change to benefits.
Annual bonus awards in respect of the 2017 18 financial year The bonus structure for 2017 18 is consistent with that detailed in the directors remuneration policy section of this report.
Annual bonuses will be assessed based on financial performance, represented by growth and protection objectives and profitability objectives accounting for 70% of the overall award, and strategic priorities, represented by client focus and people and culture accounting for the remaining 30%.
Maximum Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of base salary opportunity for 2017 Group Chief Financial Officer: 200% of base salary Up to half of any bonus award will be paid in cash, with the balance deferred into NEX Group plc shares for a three-year period.
Performance The committee has selected measures to directly support NEXs strategy.
measures The 2017 annual bonus will be subject to the following performance measures: Financial 70% Achieve growth in operating profit assessed using constant exchange rates Deepen relationships with strategic clients, grow business with identified target client populations, and drive cross-selling across the NEX portfolio Strategic priorities 30% Define and clearly articulate the NEX strategy internally and externally Complete and implement the redesign of an operating model to support the NEX strategy The targets set for performance measures are commercially sensitive and as permitted by the regulations are not being disclosed in advance.
Further detail will be provided in next years Annual Report within commercial constraints with context on performance against those targets and the resulting bonus.
70 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Long term incentive awards In the 2017 18 financial year, awards will be made under the PSP to the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Maximum Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of base salary opportunity Group Chief Financial Officer: 200% of base salary Performance Performance will be measured over a three-year performance period.
Once they have vested, awards will be subject to an period additional holding period of at least two years.
Performance The performance period will run from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2020. measures TSR 50% of the award and targets Half of the 2017 PSP award will be subject to a total shareholder return performance condition.
The Groups TSR will be measured relative to the FTSE 250 index.
Vesting of awards under the TSR element will be in line with the following schedule: TSR performance Percentage of TSR element vesting Below median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile EPS 50% of the award The remaining 50% of the 2017 award will be subject to an EPS performance condition.
Awards under this element will vest in line with the following schedule: Annual EPS growth Percentage of EPS element vesting 6% 0% 6% 25% 12% 100% Straight-line vesting between 6% and 12% Chairman and non-executive directors fees Following an internal review of non-executive director fees, including a benchmark review, the decision was taken to make a small adjustment for the coming year.
This is the first change for a number of years, with fees held at the current level for non-executive directors since 2010.
The fees for the Chairman have also been increased to reflect the extensive time commitment made during and since separation of the business the Transaction.
This is the first change since 2012.
The Nomination Committee chairmans fee and the SEF non-executive directors fees remain at the current level.
There are no fees paid for membership of board committees.
The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure as at 1 April 2017.
Position Fee % increase Chairman 350,000 17% Non-executive director 85,000 6% Additional fees Senior independent director 11,000 10% Chairman of the Audit Committee 11,000 10% Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11,000 10% Chairman of the Risk Committee 11,000 10% Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5,000 0% Membership of the SEF board and or any other subsidiary board 15,000 $25,000 0% Charles Gregson waived his entitlement to the additional fee for his role as chairman of the Nomination Committee Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who sit on the boards of SEF entities due to the additional time commitment for discharging this role Support to the committee The committee is supported by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Group Head of HR and the Group Company Secretary.
The committee received external advice from Deloitte in relation to matters affecting executive compensation until October 2016.
Since October 2016, the committee has received external advice from Willis Towers Watson.
Both Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson were appointed by the Company.
Willis Towers Watson was selected from a number of alternatives following a process conducted internally.
Until October 2016, Deloitte also provided tax advice to the business.
The committee is satisfied that the advice received from Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was independent and objective.
The fees in respect ofthe advice provided were 52,829 to Deloitte and 24,550 to Willis Towers Watson.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 71 Governance and directors report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Statement of voting at the ICAP plc 2016 annual general meeting At the 2016 ICAP plc annual general meeting votes cast in respect of the remuneration report were: Remuneration report Total number of votes Votes cast For 520,142,451 93.05% Against 38,843,072 6.95% Number of votes cast 558,985,523 Votes withheld 7,799,904 The committee was satisfied with the voting outcome for the remuneration report and directors remuneration policy, and looks forward to the support ofshareholders in relation to the report and policy in 2017.
Retrospective disclosure from 2015 16 Due to commercial sensitivity the committee elected not to disclose the financial targets relating to 2015 16 bonus awards in the 2016 report.
It did, however, make a commitment to retrospectively disclose the financial targets in this Annual Report provided they were no longer considered sensitive.
Thetargets are shown in the below table for information.
Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Payout Payout Key strategic areas Performance measure % 25% 50% 100% Achievement % element % bonus Growth and protection financial Defence of existing market share 11.7% 77% 87% 97% 95% 90% 10.5% Market share growth in electronic and post trade 11.7% 0% 3.25% 6.5% 5.9% 90% 10.5% Revenue from new products relative to prior year 11.7% Flat 20% 60% 39% 74% 8.6% Total 35% 85% 30% Profitability financial Profit before tax m 17.5% 203 233 263 203 25% 4% 95% 95% Cash conversion 17.5% - 15% - 5% 95% 96% 90% 16% Total 35% 58% 20% Non-financial Detailed in 2016 ICAP plc Annual Report 30% Detailed in 2016 ICAP plc Annual Report 90% 27% Total 100% 77% 72 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017
