Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report which has been approved by both the Remuneration Committee the Committee and the Board for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Thank you to Ian Carter for his leadership over the last four years, and thank you for entrusting me with the opportunity to lead the Committee.
Looking forward, I would like to reflect the Remuneration Committees commitment to setting measured executive remuneration that motivates talent, supports the execution of the Company strategy, drives performance, and most importantly, is aligned with the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
During the year the Board reviewed the composition of all its Committees.
Given the increasing complexity and time commitment required of serving members, we reduced the Remuneration Committee to four non-executive directors: Philip Bowman, Stephanie George, Ian Carter and I.
We are grateful to Jeremy Darroch, Matthew Key and Dame Carolyn McCall for their respective prior contributions.
As you are aware, 2016 17 was a year of senior leadership Board level change at Burberry.
This past January, Julie Brown joined as Chief Operating and Financial Officer and Marco Gobbetti joined as Executive Chairman, Asia Pacific and Middle East.
On 5 July 2017 Marco will join the Board as Chief Executive Officer.
Christopher Bailey will transition from his role of Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer to become President and Chief Creative Officer.
Julie and Marco bring experience that is invaluable to the delivery of our strategy and the long-term growth of the business.
Likewise, Christophers ongoing strategic contribution and creative talent will continue to advance the Burberry product and brand.
Details of Marco, Julie and Christophers remuneration are set out on page 106.
After ten years at Burberry, Carol Fairweather stepped down as Chief Financial Officer in January and left the Company on 31 March 2017: John Smith resigned to pursue new interests and stepped down from his role as Chief Operating Officer in January and from the Board on 31 March 2017.
He will leave the business on 12 June 2017.
Both Carol and John have effectively supported Julies transition into the business, and I would like to thank them for their commitment to the Company.
Details of payments to Carol and John are set out on pages 108 and 109.
2017 Remuneration Policy In setting the 2017 remuneration policy the Policy, the Committee prioritised the reduction of the overall maximum potential quantum and established clear measures to align the long-term interests of executives with those of shareholders.
Given the recent Executive Director level changes, the Committee decided that it was prudent to maintain the existing operational performance measures for the annual bonus and the Executive Share Plan the ESP.
However, we have added flexibility to the ESP by widening the ranges for the potential weightings of the measures that comprise it.
Once the senior team is fully integrated and has the opportunity to further develop Burberrys strategy, it may be necessary to make additional changes to the Policy in 2018.
Should this occur, we will consult with shareholders, and potentially put the Policy to another vote at the 2018 AGM.
For the 2017 Policy, the Committee is recommending the following key changes: Reduction in pay policy maxima for executive directors Reduction in the annual bonus policy maximum from 225% to 200% of salary Reduction in both normal and exceptional maximum level of award under the ESP from 400% to 325% and from 600% to 375% of salary respectively Reduction in the level of vesting for threshold performance under the ESP from 25% to 15% of awards Reduction in the maximum annual salary increase from 15% to 10%, with the expectation that annual increases will not normally exceed the average increase for the employee population Reduction of the maximum relocation benefits that may be paid to current executive directors from 250,000 to 200,000 Reduction of pension contribution from 30% to 20% of salary for new external executive director appointments Removal of the ability to award sign on bonus or share awards other than buy-outs on recruitment 87 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Alignment with shareholders We have increased our shareholding guidelines to further align the interests of executives with shareholders.
The guideline for Christopher Bailey will remain at 500,000 shares as this is considered a significant holding circa eight times salary as at the 31 March 2017 closing price of 17.24.
We have increased the guideline for the other executive directors from two times to three times base salary.
We will continue to require retention of 50% of shares from the vesting of awards, and an investment of 50% of annual bonus paid net of tax until individual executives meet the guidelines.
The Committee has also indicated to executive directors that, other than in exceptional circumstances, progress should be made towards the guidelines, even in years when incentives have not vested.
Formalising best practice into the Policy For executive directors, clawback provisions apply to the annual bonus award.
ESP awards granted to executive directors are subject to a holding period of five years from the date of award.
Both clawback and malus provisions will now apply to the ESP award.
The holding period and clawback best practice features will be included in the formal Policy going forward.
Remuneration for 2017 18 The details of the Committees intended approach to the operation of remuneration policy during the 2017 18 year are set out in section 4.
Please note the following: There are no increases to base salaries for executive directors.
There are no changes to the levels of annual bonus award for executive directors of up to 200% of salary at maximum.
The annual bonus will continue to be 100% based on adjusted PBT.
There are no changes to the levels of the ESP award for the executive directors: 325% of salary for Christopher Bailey and Marco Gobbetti and 300% of salary for Julie Brown.
We have retained 2016 operational performance measures for the ESP that focus on revenue, profitability and the efficient use of capital, with the same weightings as in 2016 17.
Targets have been carefully calibrated to ensure that they are stretching and aligned with strategy, latest performance objectives and long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Remuneration for 2016 17 As set out in the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 65, 2016 17 was a challenging year for the luxury sector overall.
In addition to the macro environment, the Committee recognised that 2016 17 was a year of significant leadership transition for the Company, and that it was critical to retain key talent and keep the business moving forward during this period.
In this business context, the Company delivered revenue of 2,766m and Adjusted profit of 462m, and the incentive outcomes are as follows: Annual bonus: Adjusted PBT achieved was just below the bonus target resulting in a bonus payment of 46% of maximum.
Notwithstanding the strong strategic progress made during the year, Christopher Bailey decided that he did not wish to be considered for any bonus in respect of 2016 17 in light of the underlying financial performance of the business for the year.
The Committee welcomed and agreed with his decision.
The long-term incentive awards based on Adjusted PBT and granted in 2014 Co-Investment Plan CIP awards and 50% of Restricted Share Plan RSP awards will not vest as Adjusted PBT declined over the three-year period ending in 2016 17.
The remaining 50% of 2014 RSP awards based on total shareholder return TSR relative to our peers will vest at 38.5% of maximum as we outperformed the median of our TSR comparator group.
More detail is provided on pages 99 and 100.
The Committee has reviewed performance for the year against the criteria on Christophers 2014 exceptional share award and has determined that achievement for 2016 17 was 50% of maximum.
This gives an overall vesting outcome of 61.7% of maximum for tranche 1 of this award based on annual assessment of performance over three years 2014 15: 85%, 2015 16: 50% and 2016 17: 50%.
The Committee believes this level of vesting appropriately reflects the progress of the business in executing our strategy and Christophers contribution to this over the period.
This award will vest in July 2017 and section 2.6 of this report provides further detail.
As set out in the Remuneration Report last year, Christopher deferred the vesting date of the first tranche of his 2013 exceptional award, made prior to joining the Board, from July 2016 to July 2017.
Both the first and second tranches of this award will therefore vest in July 2017, as set out in section 2.7.
88 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report The 2017 Remuneration Policy and the 2016 17 Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to the vote at the AGM on 13 July 2017.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, thank you to our shareholders for your feedback on the development of the Policy.
I look forward to on-going discussions on executive remuneration and appreciate your engagement, consideration and support at the AGM.
Fabiola R. Arredondo Chair, Remuneration Committee Summary contents The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in the following sections: 1.
Directors Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration 2.
Further information on remuneration for new executive directors 6.
Further information on remuneration for Carol Fairweather 7.
Further information on remuneration for John Smith 8.
Eight-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration 1.
Directors remuneration policy Burberrys directors remuneration policy as set out in this report will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 13 July 2017.
It is the Committees intention that the remuneration policy will apply to payments made from the date of the 2017 AGM.
We have made the changes outlined in the introductory letter to reduce the policy maximum level of pay for executive directors, to reflect best practice, to align with shareholder expectations and to ensure that the policy has the necessary flexibility to support the business as the strategy evolves.
Additionally, changes have also been made to increase clarity or to simplify.
The Committee believes that Burberrys remuneration should be strongly linked to business performance and strategic direction taking into account the global markets in which it operates and from which it recruits talent.
The 2017 Remuneration Policy is based on the following principles: Linked to the performance and strategy of the business: the overall remuneration framework should provide a balance between key short-term and long-term business objectives.
Variable pay for executive directors includes 1 an annual cash bonus based on short-term indicators of the financial performance of Burberry and 2 long-term share-based incentives again linked to the financial performance and key performance indicators of Burberry.
More detail on the Companys key performance indicators linked to executive remuneration and their strategic alignment is set out on pages 28 and 29.
Shareholder value and alignment: remuneration should provide close alignment with long-term value creation for shareholders through the selection of appropriate performance measures and targets, should be tied to the future success of the Company, and should emphasise variable pay and deliver a significant proportion of remuneration in shares, some of which are expected to be retained in accordance with the shareholding guidelines.
Competitive in the global talent market: total remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain exceptional talent.
The Committee takes into account Burberrys main global competitors for talent and comparable UK companies when considering the total remuneration for executive directors.
The Committee recognises that, for each executive, the relative importance of these reference groups may be different depending on the skills and experience required to undertake the specific role.
Benefits are based on competitive market practice for each executive depending on individual circumstances.
89 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 1.1 Directors remuneration policy effective from 13 July 2017 Maximum annual opportunity Purpose and link toperformance Operation Executive directors Base salary The maximum annual increase per individual Salary levels and any increases for executive directors are set within To recognise the executive director is 10% of base salary: the same framework and ranges as those for all other employees, responsibilities, however, annual increases will not normally taking into account individual performance and overall contribution experience and exceed the average increase for the broader to the business during the year, cost to the Company, the external ability of our talent in employee population.
economic climate and positioning against peers.
a competitive global The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase environment, keeping on the total remuneration package.
our people focused on, and passionate about, the brand.
Annual bonus Maximum awards are: The Committee recognises that strong financial performance is key To reward executive to delivering superior shareholder returns and that annual profitability 200% of salary directors for achieving is a key measure of this.
Performance measure: annual financial targets Targets are set each year by reference to budget, the strategic plan, linked to the strategic 100% linked to adjusted profit performance long-term financial goals, latest projections for the relevant year plan agreed by Percentage of maximum bonus payable at and broker earnings estimates for Burberry and its competitors.
each level of performance: Targets will be disclosed retrospectively following completion of 25% at threshold the relevant financial year.
Executives are required to invest 50% of any net bonus earned 50% at target until executive shareholding guidelines are met.
100% at maximum Clawback provision: During the period of three years from date of payment whether in cash or shares, the Company may seek to recover any bonus from individual directors in whole or in part in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys audited financial statements or if the bonus outcome has been incorrectly calculated.
Use of judgement: The Committee may determine that it is appropriate to adjust the bonus outcome if, for example, outcomes are not considered to be reflective of underlying performance or where targets are no longer appropriate.
It is anticipated that any adjustment would be infrequent and in exceptional circumstances only and within the limits of the policy.
Details of any application of judgement would be disclosed at the time in the relevant remuneration report.
90 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Maximum annual opportunity Purpose and link toperformance Operation Burberry Executive Maximum awards are: Targets for the measures will be calibrated ahead of each annual Share Plan ESP grant by reference to the latest strategic plan, long-term financial 325% of salary in normal circumstances To focus executives goals, latest three-year projections and broker earnings estimates 375% of salary in exceptional on, and reward them for, for Burberry and its competitors.
The threshold targets will be circumstances, to be determined sustainable long-term calibrated to be of median difficulty, and the maximum targets at the Committees discretion performance and will be of upper quartile difficulty as determined by the Committee.
successful execution Performance measures for executive directors Targets will be disclosed ahead of each annual grant and for of the Companys to be measured over three financial years: completed cycles, detail on the performance achieved against long-term strategy.
the targets will be disclosed.
20% to 40% on growth in revenue To help maintain the Burberrys strategy currently aims to deliver both profit and 40% to 60% on growth in adjusted profit stability of the top revenue growth and therefore to align with strategy, a measure 20% to 30% on a measure to incentivise executive team, and align based on revenue growth is included as a transparent and the efficient use of capital executives interests with quantifiable indicator of performance.
Growth in adjusted profit those of shareholders.
has been chosen as the Committee believes strong growth in For each of the measures the vesting profile shall be as follows: adjusted profit is key to delivering superior shareholder returns.
The efficient use of capital measure is intended to incentivise No more than 15% vesting for threshold management to combine superior growth in profit and revenue performance with attractive returns on future investment but not to act as a 100% vesting for maximum performance disincentive to invest.
Vesting: 50% after three years, remaining A cash payment equivalent to the value of dividends which would 50% after four years.
have been received during the vesting period will be paid only in respect of shares that vest.
Holding period: while executive directors are employed by Burberry, normally no ESP The awards are structured as nil-cost options or conditional rights shares may be sold, except to cover any tax to receive free shares on vesting.
liabilities arising out of the award, until five Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to grant years from the date of grant.
awards of up to 375% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee may vary the weighting applied to each measure within the ranges shown.
Use of judgement: The Committee will have the ability to adjust the calculated level of vesting by reference to the quality of earnings and effective execution of strategy to ensure the growth delivered is long-term sustainable growth and within the limits of the policy only.
Details of any adjustments would be disclosed in the relevant remuneration report.
Malus provision: Unvested shares or awards may be forfeited in whole or in part in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys audited financial statements.
Clawback provision: During the period of three years from date of vest, the Company may seek to recover any vested shares or awards from individual directors in whole or in part or cash of equivalent value in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys audited financial statements or if the outturn has been incorrectly calculated.
All-employee Sharesave: maximum savings amount Burberry operates two all-employee share plans: shareplans of 6,000 per annum, with which shares The Sharesave Scheme offers eligible employees including To encourage employee can be purchased with a 20% discount.
executive directors an opportunity to enter into a threeor five-year share ownership Share Incentive Plan and International savings contract to save a portion of their salary which can be at all levels.
Freeshare Plan: awards with a value of used to purchase Burberry shares, normally at the end of the savings up to 500 per annum.
contract, at up to a 20% discount to the market price at the date of invitation.
Awards of shares or a cash equivalent where the use of shares is not possible are made annually to all eligible employees under the UK Share Incentive Plan and International Freeshare Plans.
Discretion: The Committee reserves the right to increase the maxima to the extent that the change is made on the same basis for all employees participating in the plan.
Pensions Maximum company contribution: 30% of salary Executive directors participate in defined contribution arrangements.
To offer marketper annum for the current executive directors.
Participants may elect to receive some or all of their entitlement as competitive benefits.
For any new external executive director a cash allowance.
appointments, the maximum Company contribution will be no more than 20% of salary per annum.
91 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Maximum annual opportunity Purpose and link toperformance Operation Other benefits Executive directors receive a cash allowance Benefit levels are reviewed on an annual basis and, while the andallowances and non-cash benefits.
The aggregate Committee does not intend to increase the level of provision above To promote the well maximum value of benefits would not normally the maximum value, the cost to the Company of providing benefits being of employees, exceed 100,000 per individual per annum can vary due to a number of factors outside the Companys control.
allowing them to focus other than in circumstances deemed to Benefits for executive directors may include, but are not limited to: on the business.
be exceptional by the Committee.
private medical insurance The Committee may agree that the Company life assurance will pay additional allowances linked to relocation or international assignment.
For the purposes long-term disability insurance of providing a maximum, this will not exceed car allowance 200,000 in any year for any one existing director.
clothing allowance Christopher Bailey is entitled to a cash employee discount allowance of 440,000 per annum, as agreed in his previous role, prior to his appointment as an Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
He is also entitled to receive The Company may meet any tax liabilities that may arise the non-cash benefits, as noted to the right: on expenses.
the value of these is not normally expected Discretion: The Committee retains the discretion to provide to exceed 20,000 per annum.
other benefits to the executive directors as deemed necessary.
Discretion to honour all prior commitments The Committee reserves the right to make any payments including exercising any discretion it has relating to such payments where the terms were agreed before this policy came into effect or prior to an individual being appointed a director of the Company.
For these purposes entitlements arising under the Companys current remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will be incorporated into this policy, and payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an entitlement under an award over shares or cash of equivalent value arising at the time the award is granted.
Notes on share awards: Adjustment of share awards: The number of shares subject to an award and the option price, where relevant can be adjusted on a rights issue, special dividend, fide-merger or variation of capital or similar transaction.
Subject to the plan rules, share awards can be satisfied by a cash payment equal to the value of shares the participant would otherwise have received.
In respect of our share plans, this table presents a summary of the key and relevant information for the Plan Rules.
It is the Committees intention that these plans will operate in accordance with the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders where applicable.
A summary of the changes between the Policy set out above for the executive directors and the Company current Policy as approved at the 2014 AGM is set out on pages 87 and 88 within the Committee Chairs letter.
92 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Purpose Maximum annual opportunity Operation Non-executive directors Chairman fees Maximum increase: 10% of fee The Chairman is paid a single fee for all responsibilities.
To attract and retain a per annum over period since last review date.
The fee level is reviewed at least every three years by high-calibre chairman the Committee, with reference to UK market levels in by offering a marketcompanies of a similar size, the time commitment and competitive fee.
Non-executive Maximum increase for each type of fee The NEDs are paid a basic fee.
The Chairs of the Audit and directors NEDs fees per individual director : 10% of fee Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent To attract and retain per annum over period since last review date.
Director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra high-calibre nonresponsibilities.
executive directors Fee levels are reviewed at least every three years by the by offering marketBoard, with reference to UK market levels in companies competitive fees.
Chairman and NEDs Non-executive directors receive a 2,000 attendance Attendance allowances are paid in cash.
other benefits allowance per meeting for attendance at Board meetings Reasonably incurred expenses will be reimbursed.
To enable the Chairman outside of their country of residence except the The Chairman is eligible to receive healthcare cover and NEDs to undertake Chairman and, as brand ambassadors, discount on and has access to a car and driver.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate.
Benefit levels are reviewed on an annual basis and the value can vary year-on-year.
Any additional benefits will be set at a level appropriate to the role and individual.
The Company may meet any tax liabilities that may arise on expenses or benefits.
NEDs additional fees Maximum additional fee: 20,000 The Company has the discretion to pay an additional fee to To allow flexibility to a NED should the Company require significant additional provide additional fees time commitment in exceptional circumstances.
The Company currently has no intention to use this discretion.
The Policy above includes the addition of healthcare cover and a car and driver for the Chairman, which are considered appropriate benefits for this role.
Policy on recruitment and promotion arrangements Except as described below, the Committee will pay new directors in accordance with the approved remuneration policy.
The ongoing annual remuneration arrangements for new executive directors will therefore comprise base salary, annual bonus, ESP award, pension, benefits and all-employee share plans.
In addition, the recruitment policy below permits the Committee to take the following actions, if appropriate, in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
For an internal appointment, any commitment made in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain reasonable allowances linked to relocation and the limit in the policy table for existing directors will not apply in this case as appropriate and will meet reasonable expenses reimburse an executive against additional costs on appointment.
In addition, the Committee may agree that the Company will pay certain reasonable allowances linked to repatriation on termination of employment.
For external appointments, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements to take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving a former employer.
As far as possible and appropriate, such payments would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the relinquished remuneration.
If necessary, the Committee may enter into a service contract with a longer initial notice period to secure the appointment of an executive from an environment where longer notice periods are market practice.
The notice period would be reduced to 12 months or less on a rolling basis after the initial longer period has finished.
For internal appointments the terms and conditions of the individual employment prior to the appointment will remain in force unless the Committee otherwise decides and the individual agrees.
93 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 1.3.
Supplementary information Remuneration policy in the rest of the Company The remuneration arrangements for executive directors outlined in section 1.1. above are consistent with those for the other senior executives, although quantum and award opportunities vary by executive level.
In making its decisions on executive remuneration, the Committee considers the reward framework for all employees worldwide, ensuring that the principles applied are consistent with the executive remuneration policy.
Merit increases awarded to executives are determined within the broader context of employee remuneration.
All our employees are eligible for an annual bonus based on performance and the principle of shareholder alignment is reflected throughout the organisation through our all-employee share plans, which are where legally possible extended to all eligible Burberry employees globally.
Burberry is also a partner of the Living Wage Foundation and accredited as a UK Living Wage employer.
Indicative total remuneration levels A substantial portion of executive director remuneration is dependent on Company performance.
The charts below illustrate indicative levels of total remuneration which would be received by each executive director under the remuneration policy set out above on pages 90 to 92 for the first complete financial year in which the policy will apply from 1 April 2017 at each of: 1 maximum, 2 target and 3 below threshold performance scenarios.
"Executive director total remuneration at different levels of performance Christopher Bailey Maximum 24% 29% 47% 7.6m Target 39% 23% 38% 4.8m Below threshold 100% 1.9m Marco Gobbetti Maximum 21% 30% 49% 7.3m Target 34% 25% 41% 4.4m Below threshold 100% 1.5m Julie Brown Maximum 21% 32% 47% 4.4m Target 35% 26% 39% 2.7m Below threshold 100% 0.9m 0m 2m 4m 6m 8m Fixed Short-term variable Long-term variable Notes: ""Maximum"" remuneration includes fixed pay plus maximum annual bonus 100% of opportunity which is 200% of salary for all executive directors and 100% vesting of ESP award 325% of salary for Christopher Bailey and Marco Gobbetti and 300% of salary for Julie Brown."
"""Target"" remuneration includes fixed pay plus target annual bonus 50% of maximum and 50% vesting of ESP award."
"""Below threshold"" remuneration includes fixed pay only salary, pension and cash allowances."
No share price growth or dividend payments have been applied to share awards included in these indicative total remuneration figures.
Salaries are assumed to be at the levels that will apply from 1 July 2017.
Christopher Baileys exceptional share awards have been excluded as they do not form part of the 2017 forward-looking general policy.
Marco Gobbetti and Julie Browns buy-out bonuses and share awards have been excluded as they do not form part of their on-going annual remuneration.
94 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Policy on service agreements and termination provisions Executive directors The Companys general policy on executive directors service agreements is that they operate on a rolling basis with no specific end date and include a 12-month or less notice period both to and from the Company.
The table below sets out information on service agreements for the current executive directors.
Christopher Bailey has a service agreement put in place prior to implementation of this policy and includes at least a six-month notice period to the Company.
Date of current Date employment Notice period to Notice period from service agreement commenced the Company the Company Christopher Bailey 30 April 2014 7 May 2001 6 months 12 months Julie Brown 11 July 2016 18 January 2017 12 months 12 months Standard terms on termination Salary, benefits and allowances: Executive directors continue to receive salary, benefits and allowances during their notice period.
Pursuant to the terms of Business Protection Agreements which set out restrictive covenants and terms relating to the non-solicitation of employees in place with the executive directors except Christopher Bailey, payments equal to salary for the duration of certain restrictive covenants may be made if the employer chooses to enforce them to protect Burberrys continuing business.
Annual bonus paid in cash: An executive considered to be a good leaver for example leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or in other circumstances determined by the Committee may remain eligible for a pro-rated payment of the annual bonus subject to achievement of bonus targets.
An executive director who has left employment for a reason such as joining a competitor company during the performance period or before the payment is due, or who has given or been given notice, will not be eligible to receive an annual bonus.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the payment of annual bonus to leavers, as outlined below.
ESP awards: For an executive considered to be a good leaver including leaving the Company on retirement, redundancy, ill health, as a result of death in service or in other circumstances determined by the Committee, outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and vest subject to performance on the original vesting date.
For an executive director whose employment is terminated for any other reason such as leaving to join a competitor company during the performance period, ESP awards will lapse in full.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the approach and the extent to which awards vest for leavers, as outlined below.
Other: Reasonable disbursements for example, legal or professional fees, relocation repatriation costs may be paid.
Any other employee share plan entitlements such as under the Sharesave Scheme, UK Share Incentive Plan or the International Freeshare Plan will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan and the Committee may exercise the discretions provided under those plans.
Discretion: In the Committees experience, directors leave for a wide variety of reasons and individual circumstances, which do not all fall within the good leaver categories outlined above.
The Committee therefore retains discretion to approve payments to individuals based on individual circumstances and performance while in office or employment.
In applying any such discretion, the Committee will make any decisions by considering the best interests of shareholders and those of the remaining employees including executive directors.
Where awards are subject to performance conditions, these would be tested at the end of the relevant period s and any award which is allowed to vest would be pro-rated for time in office or employment.
Christopher Bailey The Company has agreed specific arrangements with Christopher Bailey in relation to termination of his employment in substitution for the first two sections of the standard terms described in the previous section Salary, benefits and allowances and Annual bonus paid in cash.
These specific arrangements are described below.
The Company may terminate Christopher Baileys service agreement without cause by giving 12 months written notice.
The Company may terminate the service agreement immediately, in its sole discretion, by written notice and electing to pay to Christopher Bailey either 1 a lump sum representing his salary in lieu of the unexpired notice period within 14 days of termination or 2 in monthly instalments of 1 12 of his annual salary and 1 12 of his annual allowance of 440,000 in lieu of the unexpired notice period or until Christopher Bailey commences any new employment or engagement if earlier.
Christopher Bailey must use his reasonable endeavours to seek alternative employment during the balance of his unexpired notice period.
The Company will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, pro-rated to actual service in the bonus year.
The bonus would be paid on the usual bonus payment date.
95 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Christopher Bailey may terminate his service agreement at any time for Good Reason, provided he has requested that the Company remedy the relevant breach within 14 days of notification and the Company has failed to do so.
Good Reason means the Company is guilty of serious and continued non-observance or breach of the terms of the service agreement or of any applicable substantial laws which are detrimental to Christopher Bailey.
On termination for Good Reason Christopher Bailey is entitled to a lump sum payment representing his salary in lieu of notice.
The Company may terminate the service agreement on health grounds by giving Christopher Bailey not less than six months notice once Christopher Baileys entitlement to Company sick pay has been exhausted or he has been incapacitated for more than 26 weeks whether or not continuous in any period of 52 weeks.
The Company may, in its sole discretion, terminate the employment by making a payment of 130% of his salary, and pay the allowance in lieu of notice within 14 days of termination.
The Company will also pay Christopher Bailey a bonus for the year in which employment terminated subject to achievement of the performance targets and other requirements of the bonus arrangements for that year, pro-rated to actual service in that year.
If Christopher Bailey dies during his employment with the Company, the Company will pay his estate his salary to the termination date and a bonus calculated as for an ill health termination described above.
Upon termination of the service agreement, Christopher Baileys entitlements if any under the relevant share plans in which he participates will be determined in accordance with the rules of those plans, as described above.
Corporate events Upon a change in control of the Company, outstanding ESP awards will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be pro-rated for time and vest subject to performance at the point of change in control.
Alternatively, they can be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee can also allow full or partial vesting on a fide-merger, special dividend, distribution in specie or if the participant is relocated in circumstances which would give rise to unfavourable tax treatment.
Malus, clawback and holding period requirements will cease to apply following a change of control.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors serve under Letters of Appointment with the Company.
Non-executive directors may continue to serve subject to the annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM of the Company, subject to six months notice by either party.
There are no provisions for compensation for loss of office in the Letters of Appointment.
Development of directors remuneration policy In developing and reviewing the directors remuneration policy, the Committee is mindful of the views of shareholders and is sensitive of the relativities of arrangements for executive directors to those for employees more generally.
The Committee proactively seeks feedback from shareholders when considering any significant changes to remuneration for executive directors.
The Committee also listens to and takes into consideration investor views more generally throughout the year.
For example, the Company consulted with its largest shareholders in the autumn of 2016 regarding 2016 ESP awards in particular the performance measure targets that apply and refined the proposals based on the feedback received and consulted in the spring of 2017 on the 2017 remuneration policy.
Employees are free to communicate their views internally on any topic including the remuneration policy for directors by using the Burberry internal social media platform or using the employee confidential helpline.
In addition, many of Burberrys employees are shareholders, through the Sharesave and Free Share plans, and they, like other shareholders, are able to express their views on directors remuneration at each general meeting.
During 2017 Burberry will launch its all-employee engagement survey.
Views of our employees generally and on their remuneration will be taken into account when building future plans.
However, given the scale, geographic spread and the diversity of roles of Burberrys employees, the Committee does not proactively consult with employees specifically on the remuneration policy for directors.
96 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.
Directors remuneration in 2016 17 Annual Report on Remuneration The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
Single figure of total remuneration outcomes for 2016 17 audited The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received or receivable by the directors in respect of the 2016 17 financial year.
The single figures of total remuneration are also included for the prior 2015 16 financial year.
2 T he amounts shown for 2014 RSP awards vesting for Christopher Bailey, John Smith and Carol Fairweather shown for year to 31 March 2017 are based on a share price of 16.721 average share price over the three months to 31 March 2017 as these awards have not yet vested.
3 T he amount shown as 2014 Exceptional award for Christopher Bailey relates to vesting of the first tranche of his 2014 exceptional share award, for which 77,084 of a maximum 125,000 shares will vest on 31 July 2017.
As this award has not yet vested the value is based on a share price of 16.721 the average share price over the three months to 31 March 2017 and includes an estimated payment of 103,523 in lieu of dividends.
4 R emuneration for Julie Brown relates to the period 18 January 2017 to 31 March 2017.
As compensation for the incentives she forfeited on leaving her previous employer, Julie Brown received a cash bonus of 550,000 included in Prior company bonus buyout and was granted nil-cost options over 240,000 shares included in Prior company shares buyout at a grant price of 16.6033 the average share price over the 3 days prior to grant used to calculate the value of the grant shown above.
Further detail on these buyout awards is included on page 108.
Julie Brown serves as a non-executive director of Roche Holdings and it was agreed that fees earned in connection with this appointment can be retained by her.
For the period 18 January to 31 March 2017, Julies pro-rata fees for this appointment were 47,990.
As set out in section 3.3, Julie will use 50% of her net of tax bonus buy-out award to buy Burberry shares.
5 2016 17 remuneration for John Smith relates to the period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017, when he stepped down from the Board.
6 2016 17 remuneration for Carol Fairweather relates to the period 1 April 2016 to 18 January 2017, when she stepped down from the Board.
7 Fees for David Tyler for the 2015 16 year relate to the period 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015, when he stepped down from the Board.
97 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report The table below details the benefits allowances received by the directors during the 2016 17 year: 2016 17 benefits Private Long-term allowances Cash Car Clothing medical Life disability Tax on Total 2 000 allowance allowance allowance insurance assurance insurance Expenses expenses 000 Executive directors Christopher Bailey 440 18 6 5 469 Julie Brown 3 3 4 1 2 13 Former executive directors John Smith 17 15 3 6 3 44 Carol Fairweather 8 12 3 2 2 27 Non-executive directors Sir John Peace 2 1 3 1 Fabiola Arredondo 10 80 54 144 1 Philip Bowman 6 17 13 36 1 Ian Carter 12 67 55 134 Jeremy Darroch 1 Stephanie George 10 58 38 106 Matthew Key 2 1 3 Dame Carolyn McCall 2 1 3 Notes: 1 C ash allowances for Fabiola Arredondo, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter and Stephanie George are attendance allowances of 2,000 for each meeting attended outside of their country of residence.
2 T he reimbursement of certain expenses incurred by non-executive directors in the performance of their duties is deemed by HM Revenue & Customs to be subject to UK Income Tax.
The tables above include figures for Benefits allowances, including costs in respect of air travel and other incidental costs incurred in attending regular Board and Committee meetings.
Any tax liabilities arising on the reimbursement of these costs will be settled by the Company.
Amounts disclosed have been estimated and have been grossed up at a tax rate of 45%.
Note that expenses for Fabiola Arredondo, Ian Carter and Stephanie George include travel expenses from the USA.
Salary and pension for 2016 17 audited Christopher Bailey did not receive any increase to his salary for the 2016 17 year and his salary continues to be 1,100,000.
Julie Browns salary from the date of appointment was 700,000.
Carol Fairweathers salary was 500,000 for the full year 399,000 of this was for the period during which she served as a director, as shown in the table on page 97 and John Smiths salary was 592,000.
Each executive director receives an annual pension contribution or allowance equal to 30% of base salary.
No director has a prospective entitlement to receive a defined benefit pension.
98 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.3.
Annual bonus outcomes 2016 17 audited The maximum annual bonus opportunity for 2016 17 was 200% of salary for the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for other directors.
Annual bonuses were based on Adjusted PBT which includes adjustments for fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset charges, costs associated with the transfer of the Beauty operations, restructuring costs, China put option liability finance charge, and BME deferred consideration charges as set out in the Group Financial Review on pages 56 and 57.
As set out in letters from the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman, 2016 17 continued to be a challenging year for the luxury sector and for the Company.
Against this uncertain background, and reflecting the plans for accelerating our productivity and efficiency agenda, the Committee set a realistically stretching target for Adjusted PBT of 334m for the 2016 17 annual bonus, with threshold level of performance at 320m and maximum at 366m all at 2015 16 exchange rates.
Whilst the 2016 17 Adjusted PBT outcome of 332m at 2015 16 exchange rates: 462m at reported rates is above threshold, Christopher Bailey decided that he did not wish to be considered for any bonus in respect of 2016 17 in light of the underlying financial performance of the business for the year.
The Committee considered his decision and deemed it to be appropriate.
His bonus payment for 2016 17 will therefore be nil.
The Committee also determined that Carol Fairweather and John Smith would receive their bonuses as previously agreed.
Julie Brown was not eligible to receive a bonus for her period of service during the year.
The table below sets out the targets and actual performance for 2016 17.
As a result of the restructure of the leadership team, Carol will be treated as a good leaver for the 2016 17 annual bonus.
As John remained in employment and committed to business performance for the full 2016 17 financial year, the Committee determined that he would receive an annual bonus based on the Adjusted PBT performance outcome.
Maximum bonus 2016 17 Level of 2016 17 2016 17 2016 17 2016 17 opportunity Adjusted PBT Adjusted PBT bonus payment bonus payment bonus payment Annual bonus for 2016 17 % of salary target m achieved m % of maximum % of salary 000 Christopher Bailey 200% Threshold: 320 0% 0 Carol Fairweather 150% Target: 334 332 46% 69% 275 John Smith 150% Maximum: 366 69% 408 T he bonus outcome is calculated using the average exchange rates of the 2015 16 financial year.
The level of Adjusted PBT achieved for bonus purposes is therefore lower than the reported 2016 17 Adjusted PBT at 462m to reflect constant exchange rates.
Co-Investment Plan outcomes for 2016 17 audited In June 2014, Christopher Bailey, Carol Fairweather and John Smith were granted Co-Investment Plan CIP matching awards as detailed in the table below.
As for the annual bonus, Carol is a good leaver, in-line with the rules of the plan, and John is eligible to receive any awards vesting before his leave date on 12 June 2017.
Vesting of 2014 CIP awards was subject to performance from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017, as follows: - 25% of awards vest if growth in Adjusted PBT is 5% per annum over three years - 100% vest if Adjusted PBT growth is equal to or exceeds 10% per annum over three years The vesting outcome based on three-year Adjusted PBT growth is calculated using constant exchange rates.
On this basis, Adjusted PBT declined over the three-year period to 31 March 2017, which is below the threshold growth required of 5% p. a. and none of the awards will vest, as set out in the table below.
2014 2014 CIP Adjusted Level of CIP award PBT growth Adjusted PBT 2016 17 2016 17 no.
of targets over growth achieved CIP vesting CIP vesting # CIP outcomes for 2016 17 matching shares three years p. a. over three years % of maximum 000 Christopher Bailey 147,491 Threshold: 5% Decline in PBT 0% 0 Carol Fairweather 30,545 Maximum: 10% 0% 0 John Smith 43,367 0% 0 # T he CIP outcome is calculated using the average exchange rates of the year on which the targets were based, as set out in the performance condition to awards at the start of the performance period.
99 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.5.
Restricted Share Plan outcomes for 2016 17 audited In June 2014, Christopher Bailey, Carol Fairweather and John Smith were awarded Restricted Share Plan RSP awards as detailed in the table below.
As for the CIP, Carol is a good leaver, in-line with the rules of the plan, and John is eligible to receive any awards vesting before his leave date.
Vesting of 2014 RSP awards was subject to performance from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017, as detailed below.
On this basis, Adjusted PBT declined over the three-year period to 31 March 2017, which is below the threshold growth required of 5% p. a. and none of the PBT element 50% of these awards will vest.
The remaining 50% of 2014 RSP awards based on TSR relative to our peers will vest at 38.5%, as detailed in the following table.
of Performance Vesting achieved over RSP vesting RSP vesting # RSP outcomes for 2016 17 shares measure schedule three years % of maximum 000 Christopher Bailey 74,610 Growth in 25% for 5% p. a.
Decline in PBT 19.25% 240 Adjusted PBT over three years 100% for 15% 50% p. a. or above Carol Fairweather 50,870 19.25% 153 TSR vs. sector 25% for median TSR outcome of peers over three above median, years 50% 100% for upper resulting in quartile or above vesting of 38.5% of the TSR element John Smith 40,154 19.25% 129 # T he RSP outcome is calculated using the average exchange rates of the year on which the targets were based, as set out in the performance condition to awards at the start of the performance period.
T he vesting outcome based on TSR is calculated by Willis Towers Watson.
The TSR peer group for the 2014 awards comprised: Coach, Compagnie Financire Richemont, Este Lauder, Fossil, Geox, Herms International, Hugo Boss, Inditex, Kate Spade, Kering, Luxottica Group, LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton, Nike, Nordstrom, Polo Ralph Lauren, Swatch, Tiffany & Co, and Tods.
Christopher Baileys 2014 exceptional performance-based award first tranche outcome audited As reported in previous years, Christopher Bailey was granted an exceptional performance-based award of 500,000 shares in June 2014, on his appointment to Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer.
Vesting of the award is phased over five years, subject to the extent that the performance criteria set out below have been met, measured from the date of grant to the relevant vesting date: the strategic development of the business measured against the strategic plan approved by the Board from time to time: the Companys financial performance, in assessing which, the Remuneration Committee will have reference to the profit before tax condition applied to awards made in 2014 under the Burberry Group CIP.
This performance condition requires growth in Adjusted PBT over three years of between 5% at threshold and 10% p. a. at maximum: the personal contribution made by Christopher Bailey: the shareholder value delivered in the context of the evolution of the luxury goods markets in which Burberry operated over the period between the date of grant and the relevant vesting date: and any other performance factors which are appropriate in assessing the extent of vesting having regard to the interests of shareholders.
The first tranche up to 125,000 shares is due to vest on 31 July 2017.
The remaining shares are due to vest as follows: up to 125,000 shares on 31 July 2018 and up to 250,000 shares on 31 July 2019.
The Committee assesses progress towards achieving the objectives each financial year, and prior to each vesting date determines the extent to which the objectives were achieved over the three, four or five-year performance period, having regard to the level of performance achieved in each relevant financial year.
100 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report At the end of 2016 17 the Committee again reviewed performance against the key performance criteria as set out below.
Strategic development In May 2016 Burberry outlined its plans to accelerate its productivity and efficiency agenda, including a programme of action to deliver significant cost savings.
These plans were built into the five key strategies.
During the year the strategies have been embedded into the business and significant progress has been made against all of the objectives.
Pages 33 to 46 of the strategic report cover in detail what has been achieved during 2016 17 and the early results of this multi-year programme give us real confidence for the future.
Financial performance Adjusted PBT of 462m down 21% underlying was generated in 2016 17.
This performance was in part impacted by actions to elevate the brand, including the rationalisation of distribution in several major markets including Beauty and also the benefits of the strategic cost saving programme.
This is below the level of the CIP performance condition threshold of 5% growth.
Additionally, revenue of 2.8bn down 2% underlying was delivered with retail outperforming at up 3% overall, negatively impacted by a substantial decline in US wholesale as actions were undertaken to reposition the brand and also by the planned licence expiry in Japan.
Personal contribution Christopher has continued to drive the business through this transitional period, whilst evolving the key strategies.
He has ensured the senior executive team continued to be focussed on both the delivery of the key strategies and the management of the business in a challenging economic climate.
Christopher has also overseen significant change across the senior team and has embedded new executives and retained existing talent.
Shareholder value The share price has increased by 16% since Christophers appointment to Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2014 to 31 March 2017 and dividends for 2016 17 are 38.9p per share.
Overall Total Shareholder Return TSR for Burberry for the three years to 31 March 2017 is 31.9% as confirmed by Willis Towers Watson, which compares to an average TSR of 23.8% for our core luxury peers and 24.3% for the FTSE 100.
Boss, Coach, Ferragamo, Hermes, Kering, LVMH, Prada, Ralph Lauren, Richemont, Swatch, Tiffany, Tods.
The Committee considered Christophers performance across all of the performance criteria and recognised Christophers personal contribution to the delivery of the five key strategies.
Balancing this against the overall financial performance of the Company which is below the CIP target, the Committee considered that a 50% performance achievement for 2016 17 was appropriate.
This level of achievement in the final year of the first tranche therefore results in an overall vesting outcome of 61.7% and so 77,084 shares of a potential 125,000 shares will vest on 31 July 2017.
101 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 2.7.
Christopher Baileys 2013 exceptional award vesting of first and second tranches Before he was appointed to the Board, Christopher Bailey was granted an exceptional share award of 1,000,000 shares.
As set out in the 2015 16 remuneration report, Christopher deferred the vesting of the first tranche of his award from July 2016 to July 2017.
The Committee have reviewed the appropriateness of any vesting in 2017 and it has been agreed that both the first and second tranches of shares, totalling 600,000 shares, will vest in July 2017.
Note: These shares do not appear in the 2016 17 single figure of total remuneration table on page 97 as they were awarded to Christopher prior to his appointment to the Board and are not subject to performance.
Change in the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officers remuneration relative to all employees The table below sets out the year-on-year change 2016 17 vs. 2015 16 in Christopher Baileys base salary, benefits and bonus received and in the salary, benefits and annual bonus received for a comparator group of UK-based employees is also shown.
Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer Year-on-year change % 0% 0% 0% Employees Year-on-year change % 2.0% 0% 100% T he comparator group includes all employees in corporate roles based in the UK.
This group has been chosen as these employees most closely reflect the economic environment in which the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer operates.
For the comparator group of employees, the salary and bonus yearon-year changes include the annual salary review but exclude any additional changes made in the year, for example on promotion.
In 2016 17, the bonus outturn based on Adjusted PBT performance was 46% of maximum, compared to 0% of maximum in 2015 16.
The 0% increase for benefits for the comparator group of employees reflects no change to benefits policies or levels during the year.
It does not reflect any changes to the level of benefits an individual may have received as a result of a change in role, for example on promotion.
A meaningful year-on-year change for benefits and bonus for all Group employees cannot be provided due to the variation in structure of these pay elements across roles and regions.
Relative importance of spend on pay for 2016 17 The table below sets out the total payroll costs for all employees over 2016 17 compared to total dividends payable for the year.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2016 17 2015 16 Dividends paid during the year total m 164.4 157.7 % change 4.2% Amounts paid to buy back shares during the year m 97.2 nil % change 100% Payroll costs for all employees m 494.4 427.5 % change 15.6% Average number of full-time equivalent employees 9,828 10,181 % change -3.5% E mployee costs for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-presented to include employee costs recognised within cost of sales.
102 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 3.
Outstanding share interests The information set out in this section has been subject to external audit where indicated.
Conditional share awards granted in 2016 17 audited The table below summarises the long-term conditional share awards granted to directors during 2016 17.
As set out in our Directors Remuneration Report 2015 16, the Company delayed the grant of the 2016 ESP awards while the initiatives to deliver productivity and efficiency improvements announced in May 2016 were first being implemented.
This was to ensure that the ESP performance targets were properly aligned with Burberrys updated strategic goals.
The targets set recognised that 2016 17 year was a transitional year for the Company and senior team and addressed the business need to retain and motivate talent during this critical period.
Although lower in absolute terms than those set in prior years, the Committee is satisfied that the targets set for the 2016 ESP awards are stretching, requiring a demanding level of performance, and are closely linked to our performance goals and aligned with long-term value creation for shareholders.
Summary of conditional share awards granted in 2016 17 Performance Vesting Performance Basis of Number of Face value 2 Type of award measure schedule period end Director award shares awarded at grant ESP share Growth in 25% for 31 3 2018 Christopher 325% of salary 215,318 3,575,000 1 awards Revenue 1.0% p. a. Bailey 4 over three years 25% 100% for 5.5% Julie Brown 300% of salary 126,480 2,100,000 p. a. or above Carol 250% of salary 75,286 1,250,000 3 Fairweather Growth in 25% for Adjusted PBT 1.0% p. a. over three years 50% 100% for 6.0% p. a. or above Adjusted Retail 25% for Wholesale Return 13.9% on Invested Capital 25% 100% for 15.2% or above 1 T he ESP shares were granted on 30 January 2017 and will vest 50% after three years and 50% after four years from grant date, subject to the performance conditions outlined above.
2 T he face value of each award has been calculated using the three-day average price prior to the date of grant 16.6033.
As receipt of these is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards may be nil.
Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the 2019 20 remuneration report.
3 C arol Fairweather received an ESP award in line with Policy to recognise her significant contribution to the business during the year.
She is a good leaver and any vesting based on performance will be pro-rated for Carols service during the performance period.
4 O n 3 April 2017, it was announced that Burberry had entered into an agreement with Coty Inc under which they acquire the exclusive long-term global license rights for Burberry Beauty luxury fragrances, cosmetics and skincare.
For the purpose of assessing Revenue growth performance for the ESP awards already granted, as well as awards to be granted in 2017, revenue for the base year has been re-calculated on the assumption that this agreement had applied in that year to ensure revenue growth is being calculated on a like-for-like basis with the way targets have been set.
Further information on conditional share awards granted in 2016 17 audited Growth in Adjusted PBT and revenue The vesting outcomes based on each of three-year revenue and three-year Adjusted PBT growth are calculated using revenue and Adjusted PBT as disclosed in the annual accounts, subject to any adjustments down or up made by the Committee to reflect constant exchange rates and any other items deemed to be outside of managements control.
Adjusted retail wholesale Return on Invested Capital ROIC Adjusted retail wholesale ROIC measures the efficient use of capital to ensure that returns on future investment are attractive.
Group ROIC includes the contribution from the high-return licensing business.
Given the licensing business is not capital intensive, ROIC will continue to be measured on Burberrys retail wholesale business only.
Retail wholesale ROIC, for the purposes of the ESP performance measure, is calculated as the retail wholesale post-tax adjusted operating profit divided by the average retail wholesale operating assets, measured over the three year period, on a reported currency basis.
A calculation of adjusted retail wholesale ROIC is included in the five-year summary on page 178.
103 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 3.3.
Total interests in shares audited The table below summarises the total interests of the directors in ordinary shares of Burberry Group plc as at 31 March 2017.
There have been no changes in the period up to and including 17 May 2017.
These include beneficial and conditional interests and the interests of their connected persons in shares.
2 C IP awards are awarded as nil-cost options and are subject to the performance conditions as outlined on page 99, and vest 100% after three years from date of grant.
3 E SP awards are awarded as nil-cost options.
The awards granted in 2017 are subject to the performance conditions as outlined on page 103.
The awards granted in 2015 are subject to the following performance conditions: 25% on 3-year revenue growth of between 3% and 11% p. a.
50% on 3-year growth in Adjusted PBT of between 3% and 11% p. a.
25% on 3-year average ROIC of between 15.3% and 17.8%.
ESP awards vest 50% after three years and 50% after four years from date of grant.
4 NCO denotes a Nil-Cost Option award.
Further details of the 2013 and 2014 NCO awards are provided on pages 100 to 102.
5 J ohn Smith exercised the following awards during the year: 737 shares under Sharesave Scheme granted 20 June 2013.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of release 7 March 2017 was 1765p.
6 C arol Fairweather exercised the following awards during the year: 737 shares under Sharesave Scheme granted 20 June 2013.
The market value of Burberry shares on the date of release 24 January 2017 was 1647p.
104 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report Shareholding guidelines To further align the senior executive team with the interests of shareholders, we have increased the minimum shareholding requirement for executive directors, other than Christopher Bailey whose guideline is already significant, as set out in the introductory letter.
The guidelines are now set at the following levels: 500,000 shares for Christopher Bailey three times base salary for other executive directors one times base salary for other senior executives the Chairman and non-executive directors are expected to hold shares with a market value of 6,000 for each year of their appointment.
There is no specific timeline in which shareholding guidelines must be achieved, however there is an expectation for executives to make annual progress towards their guideline, regardless of any annual bonus paid or shares vesting.
Only shares that are owned outright count towards the shareholding requirement.
The shareholding guidelines are applicable whilst executive directors and senior executives are employed by Burberry.
As at 31 March 2017, Christopher Bailey owned 557,615 shares with a value of c. 8.5 times salary based on the share price at 31 March 2017 and has therefore achieved his shareholding guideline.
As at 31 March 2017, having only joined the Company in January 2017, Julie Brown did not own any Burberry shares, however, Julie will invest 50% of her post tax bonus buy-out award in Burberry shares.
John Smith owned shares based on the share price at 31 March 2017 with a value of 637,397 108% of his salary.
John Smith became an executive director during 2013 and has made progress each year towards his executive shareholding requirement of two times salary.
John will be leaving the Company in the summer of 2017.
Carol Fairweather left the Company on 31 March 2017.
In view of her pending departure, the Committee agreed that she would be allowed to sell a portion of her shareholding in September 2016 for financial planning purposes.
Based on the share price at 31 March 2017, Carol Fairweather owned shares worth 117% of her salary.
As at 31 March 2017, all of the non-executive directors had fulfilled the requirement to hold shares with a market value of 6,000 for each year of their appointment.
This information on the achievement of shareholding guidelines has been audited.
105 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 4.
Directors remuneration in 2017 18 The table below summarises how the remuneration policy will be implemented for executive directors in the year 2017 18.
Marco Gobbetti will join the Board and take up his role as Chief Executive Officer on 5 July 2017.
The remuneration detailed below is for this Board role and will take effect from this appointment date.
2017 18 annual salaries will be 1,100,000 for Marco Gobbetti and 700,000 for Julie Brown, as detailed in July 2016 when we first announced their appointments.
Christopher Bailey was not awarded any increase to his salary for the 2017 18 year and as such his salary continues to be 1,100,000.
Maximum bonus and ESP award levels are unchanged from previous years.
Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2017 18 for executive directors Element Performance measure s Director Maximum level Base salary Christopher Bailey 1,100,000 0% increase Julie Brown 700,000 Marco Gobbetti 1,100,000 Annual bonus Annual Adjusted PBT Christopher Bailey 200% of salary The Board considers the forward-looking Adjusted PBT bonus Julie Brown 200% of salary targets to be commercially sensitive as they are linked to the Marco Gobbetti 200% of salary Companys financial and strategic plans.
Targets will therefore be disclosed retrospectively ESP share awards 3-year growth in Group revenue 25% Christopher Bailey 325% of salary Julie Brown 300% of salary 3-year growth in Adjusted PBT 50% Marco Gobbetti 325% of salary Adjusted retail wholesale ROIC 25% The performance targets are detailed in section 4.2.
Further information on ESP performance measures Whilst the ESP design has been agreed, the remuneration policy allows a degree of flexibility around a number of the ESP design elements.
This flexibility allows the Committee to determine the most appropriate approach to the following parameters ahead of each annual award: the weighting of each performance measure within the specified ranges the definition and calculation approach of each performance measure the threshold and maximum performance targets for each performance measure.
The Committee is pleased to set out these parameters for the 2017 ESP awards below.
Performance level % of maximum vesting Weighting Threshold Maximum ESP performance measure Definition % of award 15% 100% Group Revenue 3-year growth, calculated on 25% 1.0% p. a.
5.5% p. a. a constant currency basis Group Adjusted Profit Before Tax 3-year growth, calculated on 50% 2.0% p. a.
10.0% p. a. a constant currency basis Adjusted retail wholesale ROIC 3-year average 25% 16.2% 18.2% The weightings and measures shall remain unchanged from 2015 16.
The performance measures will be calculated on the same basis as for 2016 17 awards as set out on page 103 of this report.
The targets for all three performance measures have been carefully calibrated in light of a number of factors, including the latest Burberry strategic plan, our long-term financial goals, latest three-year projections and broker earnings estimates for Burberry and its competitors.
The Committee has set these targets and believes they are stretching, extremely so at the maximum performance level, and will ensure management is incentivised to continue to deliver superior returns to shareholders.
106 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report On 3 April 2017, it was announced that Burberry had entered into an agreement with Coty Inc under which they acquire the exclusive long-term global license rights for Burberry Beauty luxury fragrances, cosmetics and skincare.
For the purpose of assessing revenue growth performance for the ESP award to be granted in 2017, as well as awards already granted in 2015 and 2016, revenue for the base year has been re-calculated on the assumption that this agreement had applied in that year to ensure revenue growth is being calculated on a like-for-like basis with the way targets have been set.
Subject to performance, ESP awards will vest 50% after three years and 50% after four years from the date of grant.
As set out in the Policy, the Committee also applies an additional holding period on ESP awards granted to executive directors to increase long-term alignment with shareholders.
While executives are employed by Burberry, no ESP shares may normally be sold except to cover any tax liabilities arising out of the award until five years from the date of grant.
Summary of Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees for 2017 18 The table below sets out the fee structure for the Chairman and NEDs for 2017 18.
Fee level Summary of Chairman and NED fees for 2016 17 000 1 Chairman 400 Non-executive director 80 Senior Independent Director 20 Audit Committee Chair 35 Remuneration Committee Chair 35 2 Attendance allowance 2 1 T he Chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or attendance allowances.
2 N EDs receive an attendance allowance for each meeting attended outside of their country of residence.
3 E xpenses incurred in the normal course of business are reimbursed and, as these are considered by HMRC to be taxable benefits, the tax due on these will also be met by the Company.
Further information on remuneration for new executive directors 5.1.
Remuneration for Chief Executive Officer Marco Gobbettis 2017 18 remuneration for his role as Chief Executive Officer from 5 July 2017 is detailed below.
Salary of 1,100,000 reflecting the experience in the luxury retail sector that will be invaluable to the delivery of our strategy and our ability to deliver long-term sustainable growth An annual cash allowance of 80,000 covering travel, car and clothing, a pension allowance of 30% of salary and other non-cash benefits in accordance with the remuneration policy An annual performance-based bonus of up to 200% of salary Eligible to participate in the performance-based ESP and a 2017 award will be granted as detailed on page 106.
As previously announced, Marco was granted a 2016 award of 325% of salary Buyout awards In order to secure Marco Gobbettis appointment and to allow him to join Burberry at the earliest opportunity, the Committee agreed to buyout awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
Upon appointment to the Chief Executive Officer role he will be granted nil-cost options with a total value at grant of 4.91m.
In determining the value of these awards, the Committee considered historical levels of vesting and performance achieved at that time against the targets at Marcos previous employer and discounted the value of outstanding awards to reflect this.
The Committee considers the awards to be granted to be of broadly equivalent value to the awards forfeited.
The grant value of these awards will be included in the 2017 18 single figure of remuneration table.
The nil-cost options will have no performance conditions and will only vest on the dates detailed below, which reflect the original vesting timeline of Marcos forfeited awards policy, subject to Marcos continued employment.
Restricted award with value at grant of 4,000,000 vest 100% in November 2017 Restricted award with value at grant of 910,000 vest 33% in July 2017, 33% in October 2018, 17% in October 2019 and 17% in October 2020 107 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 5.2.
Remuneration for Chief Operating and Financial Officer Julie Browns remuneration for her role as Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer for 2016 17 is detailed below: Salary of 700,000, reflecting responsibility for both the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer roles An annual cash allowance of 30,000 covering car and clothing, a pension allowance of 30% of salary and other non-cash benefits in accordance with the remuneration policy An annual performance-based bonus of up to 200% of salary Eligibility to participate in the performance-based ESP and a 2017 award will be granted as detailed on page 106.
As previously announced, Julie was granted a 2016 award of 300% of salary.
Buy-out awards To secure Julie Browns appointment and to allow her to join Burberry at the earliest opportunity, the Committee agreed to buyout the non-cash and cash incentives forfeited on leaving her previous employer.
The grant value of the nil-cost options over 240,000 shares is included in the single figure table under Share awards buyout.
In determining the value of these awards, the Committee considered historical levels of vesting and performance achieved at that time against the targets at Julies previous employer and discounted the value of outstanding awards to reflect this.
The Committee considers the awards granted to be of broadly equivalent value to the awards forfeited.
This amount was converted into a number of shares at the time Julies appointment was agreed based on the share prices of Burberry and Julies previous employer at that time.
The nil-cost options have no performance conditions and will only vest on the dates detailed below, which reflect the original vesting timeline of Julies forfeited awards, subject to Julies continued employment.
215,000 shares vest 40% on 22 July 2017, 30% on 22 July 2018 and 30% on 22 July 2019 25,000 shares vest 33% on 27 March 2018, 33% on 27 March 2019 and 34% on 27 March 2020 As compensation for her 2016 annual bonus forfeited from her previous employer, Julie also received a cash payment of 550,000.
The amount was set by reference to both financial and personal performance at Julies previous employer at the time of offer at a level equivalent to the target cash bonus opportunity, the performance expectation at Julies previous employer at that time.
This payment was made in April 2017, in line with Julies joining arrangements, and is also included in the single figure of remuneration table on page 97 under Prior company bonus buyout.
Julie will be investing 50% of this bonus, post tax and NI, in Burberry shares.
Further information on remuneration of Carol Fairweather audited The single figure of remuneration table on page 97 details the remuneration Carol Fairweather received for the period of 2016 17 that she served as an executive director.
Carol continued to receive her salary, allowances, pension and contractual non-cash benefits up to 31 March 2017.
A payment in lieu of notice equal to 12 months salary, allowances and benefits including pension allowance of 675,000 was paid as a lump sum to Carol in April 2017.
As already set out Carol will be treated as a good leaver and as such will receive an annual bonus for 2016 17 of 345,000 for the full year, of which 275,000 is for the period to 18 January 2017 when she stepped down from the Board as shown on the table on page 99.
Carols outstanding share awards will also vest on a pro rata basis.
As detailed in section 2.4, the performance condition attached to 2014 CIP awards was not met and so Carols 2014 CIP award will lapse.
Also as detailed in section 2.5, 2014 RSP awards will vest at 19.25% of maximum and so 9,792 shares of a total 50,870 shares will vest on 12 June 2017.
Carols outstanding awards under the ESP will vest at the normal vesting dates, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance conditions and time pro-rating.
Subject to performance outcomes, Carol will be able to exercise her options and receive a maximum of 26,156 shares from July 2018, a maximum of 26,157 shares from July 2019, a maximum of 12,547 shares from January 2020 and a maximum of 12,548 from January 2021, less any shares sold to cover tax.
In respect of the ESP shares that vest, Carol will also receive a cash payment equivalent to the dividends which would have been received on the shares during the vesting period.
Carol exercised her options under the 2015 Sharesave scheme on 24 January 2017, as detailed in section 3.
The Committee agreed to make a payment of 5,000 in respect of legal services provided to Carol.
Finally, the Committee determined that until 31 March 2018 or later, if the Committee so determines, Carol will continue to receive private medical insurance and employee discount, each at a level consistent with those provided to her during the 2016 17 year and other Burberry executive directors.
Carol will not receive any further payments.
108 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 7.
Further information on remuneration of John Smith audited The single figure of remuneration table on page 97 details the remuneration John Smith received during 2016 17.
John stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2017 and will continue to receive his salary, allowances, pension and contractual non-cash benefits up to his leaving date of 12 June 2017.
John remained an executive director for the full 2016 17 financial year and, to recognise his contribution to the performance of the business for that year, the Committee determined that he would receive an annual bonus, based on Adjusted PBT performance for the 2016 17 year, as shown in the table on page 99.
Under the rules of the CIP and RSP, John remains entitled to receive any awards that vest prior to his leaving date.
As detailed in section 2.4, the performance condition attached to 2014 CIP awards was not met and so Johns 2014 CIP award will lapse.
Also as detailed in section 2.5, 2014 RSP awards will vest at 19.25% of maximum and so 7,729 shares of a total 40,154 shares will vest on 12 June 2017.
The three-year performance period was completed on 31 March 2017, prior to Johns departure and he remained an executive director for the duration of the period.
Johns outstanding awards under the 2015 and 2016 ESP awards will lapse in full upon his departure from Burberry, in accordance with the rules of each plan.
John will not receive any other payments.
Remuneration Committee in 2016 17 Committee membership The composition of the Committee was reviewed during the year and the Committee was reduced to four members from 1 February 2017.
The following directors served as members of the Committee during the financial year ending 31 March 2017: Fabiola Arredondo Chair from 1 August 2016 Ian Carter Chair until 31 July 2016 Philip Bowman Stephanie George Jeremy Darroch until 1 February 2017 Matthew Key until 1 February 2017 Dame Carolyn McCall until 1 February 2017 Advisers to the Committee during 2016 17 At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the following people attended meetings and provided advice to the Committee: Sir John Peace Chairman, Christopher Bailey Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, Julie Brown Chief Operating and Financial Officer, Carol Fairweather former Chief Financial Officer, John Smith former Chief Operating Officer, Leanne Wood Chief People and Corporate Affairs Officer, Louise Baker Senior Vice President Reward and Recognition, Anne-Soline Thorndike former Senior Vice President Reward and Recognition, Nigel Jones Vice President Group Financial Controller and Catherine Sukmonowski Company Secretary.
During the 2016 17 financial year, the Committee received external advice from Willis Towers Watson, as detailed in the table below.
Willis Towers Watson has been the appointed independent adviser to the Committee since 2011 and was selected at that time following a formal tender process.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG, which is responsible for the development and maintenance of the voluntary Code of Conduct that clearly sets out the role of executive remuneration consultants and the professional standards by which they advise their clients and, as such, the Committee is satisfied that its advice is objective and independent.
Linklaters LLP provided advice to the Committee in relation to compliance with legislation, namely the regulations governing the disclosure of directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Deloitte LLP also provided the Committee with advice in connection with executive remuneration as set out below.
Deloitte is also a signatory of the RCG Code of Conduct.
109 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report External advisers and fees Services provided Other services provided Fees for Committee Advisers totheCommittee to the Company assistance Willis Towers Watson Appointed by the Committee A term of the engagement between the Committee and 184,311 WTW to provide advice on the WTW is that any additional consulting services provided Fees charged on a time ongoing operation of employee by WTW to management are reported on a regular basis and expense basis and executive share plans to the Committee.
Where an actual or potential conflict together with advice on may occur, such work is agreed by the Chair of the executive remuneration Committee prior to commencement.
WTW provides market benchmarking information to Fees charged on a time and expense basis management in relation to a small number of roles which fall below the remit of Committee review.
Deloitte LLP Appointed by the Committee to During the year Deloitte has also provided other 18,000 provide advice around the consulting services such as technology implementation Fees charged on a time remuneration policy for 2017 support, tax compliance and advisory and transfer and expense basis pricing services.
The Committee is satisfied that the WTW and Deloitte engagement partners and teams which provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with Burberry that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Remuneration report voting results The table below shows the results of the remuneration-related shareholder vote from the 2016 AGM and the last Directors Remuneration Policy vote which took place at the 2014 AGM.
As mentioned earlier in this report, the Committee listens to and takes into consideration investor views throughout the year, and was extremely pleased to receive majority support for the advisory vote on the 2015 16 Directors Remuneration Report.
As detailed in the introductory letter from the Committee, the Company has consulted with its largest shareholders during the year regarding 2016 ESP awards in particular the performance measure targets and the 2017 remuneration policy.
AGM voting results Any issues raised and Vote Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Company response 2016 AGM: 285,617,407 34,601,363 9,242,280 Not applicable To approve the Directors 89.19% 10.81% Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 advisory 2014 AGM: 271,305,305 51,981,069 11,037,131 Not applicable To approve the Directors 83.92% 16.08% Remuneration Policy 110 Board and Governance Directors Remuneration Report 9.
Eight-year performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration The following graph shows the TSR for Burberry Group plc compared to the companies in the FTSE 100 index assuming 100 was invested on 31 March 2009.
Burberry became a constituent of the FTSE 100 index on 10 September 2009 and prior to that had a market capitalisation close to that of companies at the lower end of the FTSE 100 index.
Data is presented on a spot basis and sourced from DataStream.
Eight-year TSR performance graph and Chief Executive Officer remuneration Value of 100 invested on 31 March 2009 Burberry FTSE 100 731 800 631% increase 700 600 500 400 250 300 150% increase 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The table below shows the total remuneration earned by the incumbent Chief Executive Officer over the same eight-year period, along with the percentage of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive.
The total amounts are based on the same methodology as used for the table on page 97 Single figure of total remuneration for 2016 17.
Details of this plan can be found in the relevant historical directors remuneration reports.
T he Exceptional award for Christopher Bailey relates to vesting of the first tranche of his 2014 exceptional share award, for which 77,084 of a maximum 125,000 shares will vest on 31 July 2017.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Fabiola R. Arredondo Chair, Remuneration Committee 17 May 2017 111
