DireCtors remuneration report review of remuneration policy Chairmans statement In carrying out the remuneration review this year, the Committee was mindful of the significant changes to Dairy Crests business model Dear shareholder, since our existing Policy was adopted, in combination with the On behalf of the Board, I am evolving external executive pay environment.
Over the last three pleased to present the Directors years many shareholders have been supportive of the nature of the Remuneration report for the current long-term incentive plan within our existing policy, a 2016 17 financial year.
The performance-on-grant model called the Long Term Alignment Plan current Directors Remuneration LTAP, in particular noting the alignment with the business strategy Policy Policy was approved by achieved through the scorecard.
However, the Committee also shareholders at the 2014 AGM recognises the challenges raised by some shareholders in relation to and applies from 1 April 2015 until the operation of the scheme and a more general dislike of the 2017 AGM.
We have therefore performance-on-grant models and that, as such, some would be undertaken a process during the unlikely to be supportive of it as part of Dairy Crests future policy.
year to develop a revised Policy to be put to a shareholder binding Therefore the last grant under the LTAP will be made this year, based vote at the 2017 AGM, which is also included within this report.
on the assessment of performance against the scorecard which was disclosed in last years Remuneration report.
As part of the remuneration review, I met with a large number of our shareholders and the shareholder representative bodies to In developing a revised long-term arrangement to be included in the consult on the details of the Policy and I would like to thank them future policy, the Committee considered the full spectrum of for their input and helpful guidance.
alternatives with the aim of creating the best alignment with the The revised Policy continues to be based upon a core set of business and its strategy.
We have transformed the Group into a principles which supports the strategic and financial ambitions of high margin, added value and branded business.
However, our the Company: operating model and sector does continue to result in potential The remuneration package should support a performance earnings volatility.
Our primary raw material, milk, is subject to based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align significant price volatility which cannot be hedged and, as a result of executives and shareholders interests the manufacturing process, there is a lag between when the cost of The remuneration structure should be both uncomplicated and raw materials is incurred in manufacturing cheese and when the transparent and we remain committed to open disclosure product sales are recognised on average nearly 12 months later the The measures used for incentive plans should reflect the average maturity of our cheese.
This dynamic is unique to strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to companies such as Dairy Crest and results in potential margin the future success of the Company volatility which is not consistent with a smooth progression in earnings over several years.
The Committee is confident that the Policy we are proposing fulfils these principles to the fullest extent possible within the current In light of this volatility, setting robust long-term financial earnings or climate and I hope we are able to depend on your support at the cash targets which are appropriately stretching is extremely upcoming AGM.
challenging, as price volatility can generate a boom or bust vesting outcome which is not within managements control.
The Committee also wanted to simplify the arrangements, increase transparency Company performance over the year and maximise alignment with shareholders.
As a result of these 2016 17 has been the first full year following the successful sale of factors we concluded that a restricted share arrangement would be our Dairies business to Mller in December 2015.
Our business is optimal for the business to achieve these goals.
Our proposed now almost entirely branded or added value and we have a clear approach for restricted shares included a number of trade-offs to strategy for future growth.
We have delivered another good branded reflect the increased certainty of the award for management, performance this year through investment in product innovation, comprising a significantly reduced opportunity level, a vesting period promotional activity and advertising.
We will continue to develop our of five years and the inclusion of a dividend underpin.
Our innovation is beginning to generate new business opportunities by selling demineralised whey and GOS into growing We consulted with our largest shareholders and shareholder bodies infant formula markets globally.
on this proposal and whilst many were supportive, a number of shareholders and a proxy body were not able to confirm their Overall, the Group has delivered increased adjusted profit before tax support for our proposed approach.
In the current environment and and adjusted earnings per share and is recommending an increased given this uncertainty the Committee therefore determined that it final dividend of 16.3 pence per share.
would not be appropriate to put restricted shares forward as a proposal at the 2017 AGM.
Since this decision was made, the House of Commons Select Committee on Corporate Governance published its findings which included support for restricted shares in line with the approach we were considering.
As such, we intend to continue to monitor the evolution of views within the market and may revisit restricted shares in the future as the acceptability of this model in the market evolves.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 41 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD In light of the shareholder consultation, the Committee decided to The economic and trading circumstances faced by the business revisit the possible incentive alternatives and after much deliberation, over the year, in particular, significant cost inflation in the second half, we are now proposing to return to the use of a traditional long term resulted in the Company achieving below threshold in respect of the incentive plan LTIP.
Dairy Crest had a traditional LTIP in place prior cashflow measure albeit above threshold in respect of the profit to the LTAP, the Long Term Incentive Share Plan LTISP, and the measure.
Whilst the reported results against the targets set would new LTIP will replicate many of the features of this plan, but with result in a payout under the profit element of the bonus the executive some amendments such that it reflects the current business strategy Committee, supported by the Remuneration Committee, determined and market.
normally, the maximum quantum for awards granted to that this would not be appropriate given the extended any individual under the plan will be set at 150% of base salary per commissioning of demineralised whey and GOS plants at Davidstow financial year which is the lower quartile compared to the FTSe250, which resulted in a higher than anticipated exceptional charge for the equal to the maximum under our previous LTISP and therefore with year.
However, it was agreed that, given the profit threshold level was an expected value equal to that of our current LTAP.
met, a payout under the personal objectives element of the bonus was warranted.
This results in bonus outcomes of 18.75% of salary for Mark Allen, 18.75% for Tom Atherton and 15.63% for Adam In particular, given the challenges the Company faces in setting Braithwaite, reflecting their achievement against challenging long-term financial targets, the LTIP will be based primarily on personal objectives for the year.
relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance.
TSR is a robust financial measure which achieves shareholder alignment under the LTAP, the executive Directors are measured against a whilst being a measure for which it is straightforward to calibrate pre-determined set of strategic performance indicators which targets which are acceptable to shareholders, given its relative determines the level of grant.
The award is subject to a dividend nature.
We believe share price and ultimately shareholder return are performance underpin for the first 3 years of the vesting period, with critical measures of the successful implementation of strategy and awards vesting in two equal tranches four and five years after grant.
the performance and growth of the business and ensure that The 2016 17 grant level of 67.2% was determined based on the management is rewarded in the case where Dairy Crests performance of the Company over 2016 17 against the scorecard shareholders have experienced a higher overall return than the disclosed in the previous years report.
Details of the achievement market.
against each scorecard measure are included in this report and reflect a consistent performance in a challenging year.
Therefore, our proposed Policy states that at least 75% of the overall award will be based on financial measures, with at least 50% of the 2017 18 overall award based on TSR versus a broad comparator group.
The Mark Allen received an annual salary increase effective as of remaining part of the award may be based on strategic measures 1January 2017.
This figure reflects the longer period of 18 months and we will retain discretion to determine the appropriate measures before the next salary review in July 2018.
Mark received a salary year on year based on strategic priorities at the time.
increase of 3.6%, equivalent to 2.4% per annum over 18 months Salary increases for Tom Atherton and Adam Braithwaite will be As stated, we will not be making a grant under this award until 2018.
2.6% in line with that of the general workforce.
The increases will be Taking into account business strategy and context at that time we effective from 1 July 2017. will determine the specific measures for the first grant.
We will ensure transparency on the measures set.
non-executive Director fees have also increased during the year.
Full details are provided on page 60.
The plan will also incorporate elements in line with best practice, including malus, clawback and the addition of a two-year holding In light of the importance to Dairy Crest of reducing net debt over the period post the three year vesting period, in order to align further short-term, the Committee has reviewed the weightings of measures managements interests with those of shareholders.
To reflect this, the Committee decided to increase the proportion of bonus relating to free cash flow Other than changes to the long-term incentive plan, we have made generation.
The bonus quantum is unchanged.
no other significant changes to our revised Policy.
The performance period under the one-off Transformational 2016 17 Incentive Award TIA completes in December 2017.
This award We were pleased to welcome the Group Commercial Director Adam supported the retention and motivation of Mark Allen through the Braithwaite to the Board on 19 July 2016.
His remuneration upon critical period of the sale of the Dairies business to Mller in which joining the Board was fully in line with the current Remuneration his knowledge and experience were vital to a successful outcome.
Policy, with his salary set at 255,000, a level competitive against the Further details of the TIA objectives and performance against these market for similar roles in FTSe 250 companies.
to date are set out in this report.
As set out in last years report, our annual bonus has been assessed Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members and against three metrics: profit before tax, free cashflow and personal internal and external teams who supported us with their objectives.
This approach was applied to all scheme participants commitment and hard work over the past year.
We remain across the Group.
committed to hearing your views as shareholders.
If you would like to discuss any aspect of our remuneration further I would welcome your comments.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by richard macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
17 May 2017 42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Directors remuneration policy Directors remuneration policy Future policy table We seek to ensure that the remuneration packages contribute to the The remuneration structure for executive and non-executive delivery of long-term shareholder value.
This is reflected in the Directors who are paid fees and receive no additional benefits at Companys annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive plan, Dairy Crest and the underlying principles on which each element of which are explained in more detail below.
The Committee will be the package is based are set out below.
requesting shareholder approval of the following remuneration policy at the AGM on 18 July 2017 to cover a period of three years from that date.
How the element supports our performance metrics used and time strategic objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Base salary Benchmarked against executives with similar Increases will normally be broadly in line with not applicable.
Reflect assessment responsibilities in companies of comparable inflation and the wider employee population.
of market practice size and complexity, in particular the based on role and constituent companies of the FTSe 250 index The Committee retains the flexibility to award experience.
higher base salary increases and to position salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during Crest remains competitive in the market and the year.
to take into account an individuals personal performance and experience in the role as Reviewed annually and any changes are in such the Committee may apply increases the ordinary course effective from 1 July.
over time as appropriate to achieve alignment with market levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a change in role or responsibility.
rationale for any changes no changes pension There is a defined contribution scheme and executive Directors receive employer not applicable.
Provide a market or salary supplement in place.
no further contributions up to the Annual Allowance on competitive level of service accrual under final salary pension pension contributions plus cash provision with scheme from 1 April 2010. supplements.
Overall employer contributions appropriate flexibility including cash supplements will not exceed whilst minimising risk 23% of salary.
rationale for any changes no changes Benefits Includes company car benefit, life assurance All executive Directors receive a company not applicable.
Provide marketcover, permanent health insurance and car car allowance and private medical competitive benefits.
insurance, commensurate with market levels.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the executive Directors receive life insurance benefits on a monthly basis, or as required for cover of 7 x annual salary.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to add to or remove these benefits as required.
rationale for any changes no changes Bonus To deliver an appropriate balance between Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the ensure that annual long-term and short-term reward, any bonus financial year.
reward is consistent earned over 50% of annual salary is deferred Target award: 50% of salary.
with successfully into shares see below.
The remainder is paid Metrics used to determine performance achieving the as cash.
under the bonus will be based on a mix of short-term financial financial, operational and personal measures.
targets and strategic The cash element of the bonus is ordinarily The Remuneration Committee has discretion The metrics that apply for 2017 18 are set out objectives of the paid three months after the end of the to increase the maximum award to 150% of on page 60 of the Annual Report.
financial year to which it relates.
Clawback salary in exceptional circumstances.
The applies to cash payments for 3 years from the Committee is not aware of any such The Committee has the flexibility to vary the date this element is paid.
circumstances and so does not currently performance measures and weighting of expect to make awards above the maximum metrics under this plan.
rationale for any changes no changes Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 43 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD How the element supports our performance metrics used and time strategic objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Deferred bonus Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is Policy maximum award: 50% of salary none.
Value growth is achieved only through Deliver appropriate deferred for three years, conditional on maximum potential deferral.
change in share price and dividend balance between continued employment until vesting date.
long-term and In the exceptional event the Remuneration short-term reward Delivered in shares.
Participants will normally Committee exercises discretion to award a and to build up be entitled to an amount, payable in shares, bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus Directors on vesting equal in value to the dividends earned above 50% of salary would be shareholdings in line payable on deferred bonus shares over the deferred into shares.
Malus applies to deferred bonus.
rationale for any changes no changes Long term Awards will take the form of either nil cost Maximum award: 150% of base salary other Performance is measured by reference to the incentive plan options to acquire shares or conditional than where an award is made in connection three financial years starting with the year of Ltip awards to acquire shares.
encourage and reward continuing The Committee will determine the appropriate Threshold award: 25% of the maximum Metrics used to determine performance improvement in the level of grant each year subject to the award under the LTIP will be based on a mix of Groups performance maximum award of 150% of base salary.
For financial and strategic measures.
recruitment purposes only, where there is a need to provide replacement awards, grants The Committee has the flexibility to vary the Alignment of interest can be made in excess of 150% of base performance measures and weighting of between participants salary.
However, at least and shareholders.
75% of the overall award will be based on normally, awards will vest 3 years after the financial measures, with at least 50% of the date of grant and the number of shares that overall award based on relative TSR versus a vest will be determined by reference to certain broad comparator group.
The remaining part performance conditions.
Awards granted for of the award may be based on strategic recruitment purposes may vest before the measures.
expiry of 3 years from the date of grant and may not be subject to performance conditions.
A 2 year holding period will normally apply after the vesting period subject to the Committees discretion to reduce or not apply a holding period in exceptional circumstances.
Vested shares accrue dividend equivalents.
Awards and dividend equivalents may be settled in shares or cash.
Malus and clawback apply to the LTIP.
rationale for any changes Further to extensive shareholder consultation where the future acceptability of the LTAP was questioned and after subsequent consideration of a restricted stock plan, it has been decided to implement a traditional LTIP.
To achieve shareholder alignment, the LTIP is predominantly financially based, with the primary measure being TSR, incorporating an extended vesting holding period.
The maximum award of 150% is set at the lower quartile of the FTSe250 and is equal to the maximum under the previous LTISP with an expected value equal to the current LTAP.
save as you earn The SAYe Scheme is an all-employee HMRC The maximum participation levels will be set not applicable.
scheme saYe approved savings-related share option based on the applicable limits set by HMRC.
encourage share scheme and no performance conditions are ownership across the attached to SAYe options.
executive Directors are eligible to participate in the all-employee SAYe.
rationale for any changes executive Directors are invited to participate as part of a consistent reward framework open to all employees across the Company and its subsidiaries.
44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 How the element supports our performance metrics used and time strategic objectives operation of the element maximum opportunity under the element period applicable shareholding executive Directors are required to build a The shareholding requirement for executive not applicable.
requirement shareholding in the Company.
Such Directors is 200% of salary.
Alignment of interest shareholdings exclude unvested options between participants under the LTISP and LTIP but include and shareholders.
unvested deferred shares granted to executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
executive Directors who have not achieved the minimum shareholding will be required to retain 50% of net proceeds from any shares released under the deferred bonus LTAP LTIP until the required level of shareholding is reached.
rationale for any changes no changes non-executive Benchmarked against non-executive The total fees for non-executive Directors not applicable.
Directors fees Directors with similar responsibilities in remain within the limit of 600,000 set out in Remunerates companies of comparable size and the Articles of Association.
Directors and attracts nonThe remuneration of the non-executive executive Directors of Chairman is determined by the Board suitable calibre.
following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee and Chief executive.
The remuneration of nonexecutive Directors is determined by the Board following recommendations from the Chief executive having reviewed appropriate market levels.
non-executive Directors are paid a fee only.
rationale for any changes no changes provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply at all times so long as the Ltap awards remain in existence final grant will be made in 2017, no further awards will be made under the Ltap Long term Annual grant of share awards.
Achievements over the prior year against a alignment plan pre-grant performance scorecard comprising Ltap Awards will be subject to a phased vesting If performance falls below a minimum level measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic encourage and requirement, with 50% of the award vesting in against the scorecard no award will be made.
reward continuing year 4 and 50% in year 5 following grant.
improvement in the The Committee has flexibility to amend the Groups performance Participants will normally be entitled to an relevant measures, weightings and KPIs over the longer term.
amount on vesting, paid in shares, equal in which determine the size of the awards value to the dividends payable on shares granted.
The weighting of financial KPIs in Alignment of interest awarded.
determining annual grant levels will be at least between participants 60% of the scorecard.
Malus and clawback apply to the LTAP.
The Board may at any time up to and on vesting Vesting is subject to continued employment.
Measures identified reduce the number of shares that vest, are central to Dairy should material misstatement or misconduct The level of vesting may be reduced Crests strategy and occur.
dependent on a dividend underpin over the are considered by first three years of the vesting period.
Directors in overseeing the An amount of the award proportional to the operation of the percentage decrease in dividend may not business.
vest in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
In such circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specific range over the three-year measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
Vesting of awards could be reduced to zero.
The dividend cover range will be determined by the Committee annually and may be adjusted if the Committee determines this to be appropriate.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 45 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD notes on policy table and components of remuneration performance measures and targets Performance measures for incentive plans and bonus reflect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company.
Targets are set by reference to budgeted financials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth outcomes.
Differences in remuneration for all employees All employees participate in some form of bonus plan.
The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by grade, with specific measures incorporated where relevant.
All employees have the opportunity to participate in a pension arrangement at levels of employer contribution which vary by grade.
Members of senior management participated in the LTAP at an award level appropriate to their role which will be replaced, subject to shareholder approval, by the new LTIP with the same individuals eligible.
Ceo one-off transformational incentive award At the eGM held in December 2014, shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational Incentive Award TIA outside of policy to the CeO, connected to the key business change of the sale of the Dairies business.
The key terms of the TIA are detailed below, with further detail in the 2016 Directors Remuneration report: The award will vest in December 2017 to the extent that the stretching performance conditions set in relation to the award are achieved over the three year period December 2014-2017 The award is structured as a base award over Ordinary Shares having a market value at grant equivalent to 75% of Mark Allens base salary.
A multiplier of between 0 and 3 times the number of Ordinary Shares subject to the base award will be applied to it at the end of the three year performance period, depending on the level of performance achieved The Committee will determine the level of vesting of the TIA based on performance objectives which are intended to be demanding.
In measuring performance in this regard, the Committee has identified three categories of objectives on which the assessment of performance will be based.
These relate to the restructuring of the business and its future success, as follows: Managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business, requiring strong leadership and a high level of personal involvement from a chief executive officer who is an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole through a period of extended uncertainty Appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the delivery of value to shareholders An update on the performance against these objectives to date is provided on pages 54 to 55 statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these individuals into consideration when discussing packages for executive Directors.
The Committee does not specifically ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of executive Directors but any comments received are taken into account.
The level of salary increases for the general Dairy Crest employee population is considered when setting increases for the executive Directors.
In addition, salary benchmark information for companies of comparable size and complexity within the FTSe250 excluding financial services is taken into consideration.
The Committee has oversight of statutory matters in relation to wider employee pay, for example in respect of the national Living Wage and Gender Pay Gap, and receives regular updates on such matters.
46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in the role.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an executive Director.
In respect of a promotion, any remuneration commitments made prior to such promotion will be honoured.
Any new executive Directors remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the same constraints as those of the existing executive Directors performing similar roles, as shown below: Component policy and principles Base salary and The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable benefits companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Companys ability to pay.
Should relocation of a newly recruited executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty and replacement of non-transferrable household items.
In addition, the Committee may grant additional support as appropriate.
Other benefits provided will be aligned to those set out on pages 43 to 45. pension The executive Director will be able to participate in the defined contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and receive a cash supplement payment above this.
The total benefit will not exceed 23% of Basic Salary.
annual bonus The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
The Policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Any bonus over 50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
Long term The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the LTIP at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
incentive awards The maximum annual award under this scheme is 150% of base salary and associated conditions would apply as set out in the Remuneration Policy table.
under the rules of the plan, the Committee may grant additional awards under this scheme as replacement awards see below replacement The Committee may grant additional awards under the LTIP as replacement awards.
In such cases the level of award and timing of vesting awards could be different from that in the Remuneration Policy in order to replicate, as practically as possible, the value and timing of the remuneration forgone.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of expected value or vesting period than the awards forfeited from a new recruits previous employer.
The Committee has the flexibility not to apply performance conditions or a holding period and to use cash and or shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
executive Director Date of commencement of contract notice period M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months A Braithwaite 19 July 2016 12 months executive Directors service agreements are available on the Companys website www.
non-executive Director Letters of appointment notice period A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months S Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months S Farr 6 October 2011 3 months It is the Companys policy that non-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years.
non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available on the Companys website www.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 47 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD external appointments executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company.
external appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and reported to the Board.
Any external appointment must not conflict with a Directors duties and commitments to Dairy Crest.
Fees may be retained by Directors for such appointments.
termination policy The Remuneration Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules including relevant performance conditions.
The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Director service contract and policy on payment for loss of office.
Component policy and principles notice period 12 months notice from Company.
Compensation for up to 12 months salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in loss of office in the notice period.
service contracts Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if the Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical benefits, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
under the terms of Mark Allens contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items annual salary, benefits, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period.
This will not be the Companys policy going forward for other executive Directors.
Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of office for Mark Allen are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the uK or in other jurisdictions.
The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
treatment of If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, unvested deferred deferred bonus share awards may be released in full on termination.
bonus awards under plan rules Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
treatment of In relation to the LTAP: unvested Ltip Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, Ltap plan awards disability, redundancy, retirement, the business or company in which the award holder works being sold outside of the Group, or any other under plan rules circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting, subject to pro-ration for time served.
The Committee may determine not to pro-rate if deemed appropriate.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other factors the Committee considers relevant.
In relation to the LTIP: Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, the business or company in which the award holder works being sold outside of the Group, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date with the performance conditions considered at the time of vesting, subject to pro-ration for time served.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the performance conditions and any other factors the Committee considers relevant.
A proportion of the LTIP LTAP will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time.
exercise of Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide discretion flexibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Component policy and principles Change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTIP LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Deferred bonus awards would normally be released in full.
Payments under the bonus scheme would be pro-rated for service from the start of the relevant bonus year to the date of the change of control.
For SAYe, participants can, at the Boards discretion, exercise options up to six months after the change of control.
Contributions to SAYe can continue up to the date of exercise.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTIP LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
illustration of application of remuneration policy A significant proportion of an executive Directors total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short-term and long-term business objectives.
The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance scenarios for the executive Directors.
The TIA and SAYe are excluded.
annual variable remuneration: This element shows annual bonus including any amount deferred at 100% of salary in the maximum scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario.
Long-term variable remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTIP, at 150% of salary in the maximum scenario and 75% of salary in the target scenario.
no allowance is made for share price growth and or dividends and or dividend equivalents paid, in accordance with the requirements of rules governing disclosure.
statement of consideration of shareholders views During 2016 17 the Committee consulted extensively with our largest shareholders as well as shareholder representative bodies on our new remuneration structure.
We were grateful to shareholders for the level and quality of engagement, many of whom were supportive of our proposed approach to move to a restricted share arrangement.
When the Committee decided to continue no longer with this proposed approach a second round of consultation took place.
The Committee values highly the quality of input from its engagement with shareholders.
Shareholder consultation helps the Committee set meaningful remuneration policies that achieve clear alignment of the interests of shareholders and management.
The Committee looks forward to continuing the productive dialogue with the Companys shareholders.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 49 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD annual report on remuneration single total figure of remuneration subject to audit The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director.
An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.
The total remuneration for each Director reflects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the on-going success of the Company.
It is important to note that the LTAP award included in the column LTAP for 2016 17 is incorporated in the single total figure of remuneration for regulatory reasons with no shares vesting in the year.
Therefore the actual iii remuneration earned in 2016 17 for Mark Allen, Tom Atherton and Adam Braithwaite was 805k, 501k and 261k respectively.
These shares have not vested, therefore the value of the awards has been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2016 17.
For 2016 17, the values included are for the 2014 LTAP.
Awards were subject to a dividend underpin over the period April 2014 March 2017.
The conditions under the dividend underpin were met and the awards are not subject to any further performance conditions they are therefore included in the single figure.
The value of the awards has been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2016 17.
50% of awards will vest on 16 December 2018 and 50% will vest on 16 December 2019.
As the vesting period for this award has not yet been completed, no value will be delivered to participants until 2018 2019. ii Pension amounts include employers pension contribution and salary supplement.
Base salary, bonus and LTAP are defined on pages 43 to 45. iii Amounts shown in relation to Adam Braithwaite relate to the period since 19 July 2016, when he was appointed to the Board.
iv There has been an increase to non-executive Director fees in the year, effective from 1 December 2016.
For further details see page 60. notes Taxable benefits are valued at the taxable value, and include company car car allowance and private medical insurance.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with retained fees in association with this work totalling 55k 2016: 47k.
From January 2017 he also held the position of non-executive Director at Warburtons Limited with retained fees in association with this work totalling 9k.
additional requirements in respect of the single total figure table subject to audit performance against targets for annual bonus Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short-term financial targets and personal objectives.
To ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between long-term and short-term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in Company shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 A summary of some of the key personal bonus objectives set for each of the executive Directors and their performance against these during the year are provided below: mark allen performance measure performance outcome new revenue streams With Mark overseeing the governance of this major investment, demineralised whey and GOS production have achieved substantial improvements in quality, efficiency, yields and mineral consistency.
This is key in establishing sales to infant formula manufacturers who require exacting high standards talent Development Mark has overseen formal development planning for both Tom Atherton and Adam Braithwaite and led a full development succession plan for business critical roles shareholder Customer Mark has maintained excellent links with all major customers, meeting senior contacts throughout the year.
In addition, Mark has engagement undertaken investor roadshows both in the uK and uSA, the latter bringing new shareholders on to the register tom atherton performance measure performance outcome pension Liability Tom oversaw a successful programme offering Flexible Retirement Options to deferred scheme members.
This attracted considerable interest with an in year financial benefit of 2 million excluding fees information Functionally responsible for IT, Tom developed a revised strategy incorporating fundamental hardware and software changes, providing a technology better fit IT solution for the Group post the sale of the Dairies business Frylight As Chairman of the company producing Frylight, Tom has guided and supported the leadership team in gaining further market share, consolidating its position as the uKs number one cooking oil brand and expanding the manufacturing footprint to enhance capacity adam Braithwaite performance measure performance outcome Commercial Adam has continued to build excellent relationships with our customer base.
Strong growth has been achieved in a number of the brands performance during the year new Business Growth Adam has overseen the formulation, trial and delivery of three spreadable cheese varieties and the launch of cheese snack bars.
Revenue from new product development in the last three years remains above our target of 10% Developing the team Completion of team review and action plans implemented.
Succession plan delivered Bonus payouts for the 2016 17 performance year are set out below: maximum outcome as a % of salary potential as a % of measure Details salary threshold target maximum actual m allen t atherton a Braithwaite profit before Stretching targets based on 60% 57.7m 61.3m 67.4m 60.6m 0% 0% 0% tax budget, with a sliding scale between threshold and maximum.
Free cash Stretching targets based on 15% 40.0m 42.8m 50.0m 38.7m 0% 0% 0% flow budget, with a sliding scale between threshold and maximum.
personal A range of non-financial 25% See description above 18.75% 18.75% 15.63% objectives operational and strategic objectives will be assessed by the Committee, with an appropriate award level set under this element with reference to the overall performance of the business.
total 100% of 18.75% 18.75% 15.63% i salary 102k 64k 28k Deferred into nil nil nil shares i Amounts shown in relation to Adam Braithwaite relate to his pro-rated salary over the period since 19 July 2016, when he was appointed to the Board.
A profit before tax performance of 60.6m was within the range for a payment against this bonus target.
However, the executive Committee, supported by the Remuneration Committee, determined that a payout was not appropriate given the extended commissioning of the demineralised whey and GOS plants at Davidstow which resulted in a higher than anticipated exceptional charge.
The Remuneration Committee supported this proposal and confirmed that no payment would be made for this bonus element.
The free cash flow outturn of 38.7m was outside of the bonus range and resulted in no payout.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 51 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD Given the profit threshold was surpassed, a payment under the personal objectives component was warranted, albeit the stretching nature of the personal objectives resulted in partial payment.
Ltap 2014 Awards under the 2014 LTAP were subject to a dividend underpin over the period April 2014 March 2017.
Value of Dividend awards at underpin 31 march i Face value number of Dividend underpin conditions 2017 Director Grant date granted 000s shares granted conditions met?
000s end of vesting period mark allen 16 December 414 84,406 To increase the dividend Yes 539 50% on 16 December 2018 2014 over the period April 2014 50% on 16 December 2019 to March 2017 in line with progressive dividend policy tom atherton 16 December 208 42,397 Yes 271 50% on 16 December 2018 whilst maintaining dividend 2014 50% on 16 December 2019 cover within 1.5-2.5 x range for the period April adam Braithwaite 16 December 81 16,510 Yes 105 50% on 16 December 2018 2013 to March 2016 2014 50% on 16 December 2019 i The value of the awards has been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2016 17 and includes the dividends accrued to date over the vesting period Current position on other outstanding Ltap awards not subject to audit The outstanding LTAP awards are subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 2.5 over the three-year measurement period.
Ltap 2015: The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 5.4%, and the dividend cover is 1.9 times.
Ltap 2016: The dividend increase over the period following the award is currently 5.3%, and the dividend cover is 2.1 times.
total pension entitlements subject to audit Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a defined benefit scheme to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued pension during the year other than inflationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010.
Mark Allen decided to draw benefits from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual pension.
Mark Allen, Tom Atherton and Adam Braithwaite were members of the defined contribution scheme throughout 2016 17.
The Company made contributions of 10,000 for Mark Allen and 6,656 for Tom Atherton incorporating both employee and employer contributions.
For Adam Braithwaite zero contributions were made since his appointment to the Board 10,000 of contributions incorporating both employer and employee contributions were made in 2016 17 but were processed prior to his promotion to the Board.
Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary for Mark Allen and Tom Atherton.
Adam Braithwaite received contributions of 23% of salary for the period since joining the Board.
payments for loss of office subject to audit no payments for loss of office were made in the year under review.
payments to past Directors subject to audit no payments to past Directors were made in the year under review.
scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit Ltap 2016 award The award made under the LTAP in 2016 was made on 3 June 2016.
The award level is determined based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
Outcomes against the 2016 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
The outcome against the LTAP scorecard may fall between 0% and 100%, based on assessment of performance against each measure as determined by the Committee and the weighting attributable to each in the table below.
This scorecard percentage outcome then determines the proportion of the award that will be granted, in the range of 50% to 90% of salary for executive Directors.
As set out in the approved policy, in any year, in the event of performance below a certain threshold or where the performance against the scorecard for that year is determined not to be a fair reflection of the overall performance of the business, the Committee may determine that no award will be granted.
The maximum opportunity under the LTAP 90% of salary is lower than the typical long-term incentive level in the market, whilst certainty of payout for participants is higher.
52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period and is settled through nil cost share options.
percentage vesting Level of award % of Face value on grant at threshold Director salary 000s performance number of shares end of vesting period mark allen 67.6% 365 n A 64,268 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date tom atherton 67.6% 230 n A 40,465 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date adam Braithwaite 38.8% 79 n A 13,935 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date The LTAP award granted to Adam Braithwaite was made before he became a Board Director.
The number of shares was calculated based on the middle market price on 2 June 2016.
Determination of 2016 grant: measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome 1. profit Adjusted eBITDA target each year Delivery of profit is core to the business 30% 0% and supports the progressive dividend policy 2.
Balance sheet ROCe target each year whilst ensuring acceptable return on 20% 0% efficiency maintaining net debt eBITDA in the investment within a sustainable level of 1.0-2.0 x range gearing 3.
Corporate Delivery of annual cost savings targets ensuring cost savings are delivered on 15% 15% activity & an on-going basis efficiencies Delivery of synergies and return on investment following acquisitions or ensuring that major acquisitions successful divestments when relevant divestments deliver against relevant synergy and return targets 4.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and Brand growth is key to longer term 20% 15% three years versus markets in which they business growth operate 5. innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of productivity 10% 10% proportion of revenue from innovation in and growth previous three years 6.
Corporate Range of metrics aligned to the 40 Delivering results in a sustainable way 5% 4% responsibility pledges including improvements in which enhances reputation and accident incident rates, reduced CO stakeholder engagement 2 emissions & improved maintained BITC score total 44% For executive Directors this converts to an award of 67.6% of salary 1. profit Weighting: 30%.
outcome: 0% eBITDA for 2015 16 was below the target threshold due to the higher than anticipated losses in the Dairies business up until the date of disposal.
It reflected the challenges faced throughout the year versus the Groups budget expectations in a heavily deflating dairy environment with the added pressure that a prolonged Dairies business disposal had on the commercial performance of the liquid milk business.
This weaker than expected eBITDA outcome resulted in 0% pay out.
outcome: 0% The KPI is targeted ROCe operating profit average operating assets with an additional requirement that gearing should be between 1.0 and 2.0 times.
With regard to ROCe, the long-term objective was to maintain this above 12% with individual targets and ranges set each year by reference to budget.
The ROCe for 2015 16 based on a post-disposal operating asset position was 15%.
This demonstrates the transformational effect on ROCe that the disposal of the Dairies business delivered.
However, year-end gearing net debt eBITDA was above the upper end of the target range of between 1.0 and 2.0 times.
Staying within the range is an underpinning requirement for an award under the balance sheet efficiency measure and therefore, no award was made under this element.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 53 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD 3.
outcome: 15% The KPI is targeted full year effect of cost efficiency projects initiated in any year and delivery of synergies and returns on acquisitions.
Where there is no acquisition activity, the cost efficiency projects can deliver the full 15% award and this was the case in 2015 16.
In 2015 16 great success was achieved in removing costs ahead of target up until the disposal of the Dairies business.
For the final quarter, cost saving could not be maintained at this level given that the Dairies business accounted for much of the scale of the organisation.
Although there was no relevant delivered M&A integration activity in 2015 16, related activity that was successfully delivered included the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of Promovita Ingredients Limited for a consideration of 6 million giving Dairy Crest sole control over the development of the GOS business and the segmentation of the Dairies business from the combined Group.
The Remuneration Committee recognised the cost savings achieved ahead of target up to the point of sale of the Dairies business and the successful business split along with the long-term strategic importance of the acquisition of the balance of ownership of Promovita Ingredients Limited.
On the basis of this performance it decided that a 15% payout for this element was merited.
outcome: 15% Key brand performance was strong in a deflationary marketplace.
The Remuneration Committee considered robust quantitative IRI and Kantar Worldpanel data for all brands in reviewing this element.
Cathedral City, Country Life and Frylight all grew share over 12 months.
Over a three year timeframe Cathedral City, Clover and Frylight have all grown value share.
On this basis the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 15% was appropriate.
outcome: 10% The Groups target for innovation is that 10% of revenue should be from product innovation over the last three years.
In the year ended 31 March 2016 a number of new innovations were brought to market including re-launched Clover with no artificial ingredients and new coconut and rapeseed variants of Frylight which helped drive the percentage of key brand revenue from innovation in the preceding three years to 11%.
In addition the Remuneration Committee recognised innovation in other areas of the business including the opening of the new innovation centre at Harper Adams university, new supplier arrangements for spreadable cheese with Hochland who are helping us to develop further a stronger cheese nPD pipeline, and the arrangement with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd that gives us the opportunity to grow warehousing volumes whilst planning for the completion of the distribution agreement with Mller.
On this basis an award of 10% was made.
outcome: 4% Our 2015 16 safety record has been better than was targeted.
Customer complaints generally have been low and any quality issues have been addressed fully to investigate root cause and implement improved procedures.
energy usage was 6% below budget and carbon emissions were better than target and 13% below last year.
no employee survey was conducted during 2015 16 due to the sizeable people impact of the sale of the Dairies business.
However, considerable effort was put into maintaining employee engagement via enhanced communications and the inclusion of a sale related component in the bonus scheme for all Hay employees.
The Remuneration Committee felt that corporate responsibility performance had generally been better than target and a payout of 4% was agreed.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2016 March 2019 is not met.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
Ceo one-off transformational incentive award update on objectives and performance against objectives This year also marked the final full financial year of performance under the one-off TIA related to the sales of the Dairies business, granted to Mark Allen in December 2014 and which is due to vest later this year.
This award supported the retention and motivation of Mark Allen through this critical period in which his knowledge and experience were vital to a successful outcome.
In line with the commitment made by the Committee in the 2014 15 Remuneration report and following the comprehensive update provided in last years report, we have set out detailed information on the performance against the objectives set under this plan over the past year, which were split into three categories as shown below.
54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 1. managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies business The sale of the Dairies business required strong leadership and a high level of personal involvement from a chief executive officer who is an acknowledged leader in the sector.
Mark Allen was set a number of objectives relating to the success of negotiations and discussions with Mller and the uK Competition and Markets Authority CMA whilst managing the business as a whole through a period of extended uncertainty.
Mark Allen performed exceptionally in securing the successful completion of the sale to Mller in December 2015, positioning Dairy Crest as a branded and added-value business, focussed on growth, cash generation and enhanced shareholder value.
In 2015 16 the Committee determined that all objectives in this category had been successfully completed.
Full details are disclosed in the 2015 16 Remuneration report.
2. appropriately reshaping the Group A number of TIA objectives were built around a strategic review of the Group following the sale of the Dairies business, implementation of associated structural changes and the delivery of significant cost savings.
Mark has led the organisational review process carried out over the past year covering all areas of the Group and his leadership was instrumental in identifying both immediate cost savings and opportunities for the business to leverage from this and facilitate further cost savings in the future.
The initial part of this work was an organisational design activity which was undertaken immediately post the sale of the Dairies business, covering all functions, that streamlined the Group and delivered a management and administrative structure template appropriate for a smaller business.
Marks leadership of this work and the principles he established on which it was built, were integral to its success.
He personally led the review of outputs and ultimately sanctioned the agreed changes which were critical to delivery and implementation in this area throughout 2016 17.
In addition, recognising the need to build a systems and process infrastructure suited to the post Dairies business, Mark established a major project under the title evolve that commenced in 2016 and has already set a clear roadmap for systems and process development for all parts of the business over the next 2 years.
Starting with financial systems, this project will deliver change within supply chain, demand, business systems and HR, resulting in highly effective systems, improved processes and reduced costs.
As a consequence of the above, the Company is on-target to achieve savings of 5m and will be in excellent shape to deliver continued value to our customers and shareholders through streamlined, improved ways of working and further cost reductions.
3. establishing a successful future business The TIA performance period is three quarters complete and considerable progress has been made across the business.
Brands continue to develop through product innovation Cathedral City spreadable and snack bar, Frylight avocado, packaging changes Clover, Cathedral City and Frylight all had packaging refreshes, advertising Cathedral City and Frylight were both advertised on TV and other brands were advertised through other channels and promotional activity.
Marks objectives also required the delivery of new product streams to enhance the profitability of the business and develop shareholder returns.
He led the project that has made significant progress in delivering both the highly demanding demineralised whey infant formula quality standard and the necessary quality and tonnage targets for GOS.
Mark has overseen the governance process, maintained focus and control over a highly complex, multi-dimensional project, whilst also leading the key commercial relationships with our partner Fonterra.
2016 17 has also seen further investment in the research into the uses of GOS outside the infant formula market.
The research partnership with Danisco Animal nutrition, part of DuPont, will help the Company understand the beneficial effects of GOS on poultry and swine production, building on the positive academic research already undertaken earlier in the year.
In respect of succession planning, Mark has identified the critical roles for which there may be potential future gaps and overseen a thorough succession planning process to secure the future skills required by the business.
In addition, he has conducted a full review of executive Director development, adopting a range of development processes and engaging specialist independent support, using the output of this to inform development discussions and plans for the Directors.
Mark has also reviewed the senior management population more generally, developing plans to refresh the talent pool where necessary.
Mark has sponsored and personally led an intensive employee engagement process including a full Group roadshow to which every employee was invited and a refresh of the Groups Vision and Values.
This was a key activity post the sale of the Dairies business in ensuring employees were engaged throughout this period of significant change but, more importantly, remained informed and committed to the future plans and growth of the Company.
Mark Allen has delivered outstanding progress to date with regard to the objectives set under the TIA.
Marks exceptional performance in delivering the sale of the Dairies business and his subsequent work in transforming Dairy Crest has resulted in the Company delivering industry leading margins of 16% compared to c. 5% before the disposal of the Dairies business.
Dairy Crest is in a strong position to deliver sustained future growth.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee, Mark has delivered on, and in some cases exceeded, the targets set to date.
A significant proportion of the business transformation that the TIA was designed to engender and recognise has now been implemented and delivered.
Given the level of positive progress and achievements against the TIA objectives, vesting at the maximum end is currently anticipated.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 55 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD shareholder dilution In accordance with the guidelines set by the Investment Association IA, the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10 year period to employees under all its share plans.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
Currently, awards over shares equalling 7.9% of the issued share capital have been made under share plans during a rolling 10 year period, with awards over shares equalling 2.7% under discretionary or executive schemes.
statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests subject to audit executive Directors are required to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end are required to retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved.
Shareholdings exclude unvested options under the LTISP and include unvested deferred shares granted to executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton have satisfied the shareholding requirement.
Adam Braithwaite has not met the requirements and will continue to grow his shareholding.
The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: number of shares owned outright Deferred total Vested but unvested unvested unvested unvested annual interest as including unexercised Ltap 2013 Ltap 2014 Ltap 2015 Ltap 2016 unvested bonus at 31 march connected Ltisp 2012 i ii iii iv v vi vii viii ix Director shares shares shares shares tia shares shares saYe 2017 persons shares M Allen 170,865 40,584 90,590 92,324 77,487 66,766 262,374 39,241 4,336 844,567 T Atherton 6,097 5,488 35,003 46,373 44,909 42,038 14,753 4,787 199,448 A Braithwaite 14,767 18,059 15,418 14,477 4,336 67,057 A Carr-Locke 2,000 2,000 R Macdonald 1,000 1,000 S Alexander 1,000 1,000 S Farr 4,465 4,465 i Vested but unexercised LTISP 2012 nil cost share options ii Long term Alignment Plan 2013 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition ended on 31 March 2016.
50% of awards will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report iii Long term Alignment Plan 2014 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition ended on 31 March 2017.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report iv Long term Alignment Plan 2015 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2018.
50% of awards will vest on 26 May 2019 and 50% will vest on 26 May 2020.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report v Long term Alignment Plan 2016 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2019.
50% of awards will vest on 3 June 2020 and 50% will vest on 3 June 2021.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report vi One-off transformational award to the CeO nil cost share options : The performance period will end 23 December 2017 and awards will vest thereafter.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to accrued dividends to the date of this Report vii Deferred bonus scheme nil cost share options viii Save As You earn Scheme 2014 cost options.
The exercise price for these options is 376 pence per share and the exercise period is 9 2017 2 2018.
There are no applicable performance conditions Save As You earn Scheme 2016 cost options.
The exercise price for these options is 463 pence per share and the exercise period is 9 2019 2 2020.
There are no applicable performance conditions ix unvested TIA shares and SAYe are not considered when calculating shareholding requirements There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 March 2017 and 17 May 2017 Gain on exercise of share options number of options market value at exercise Gain on exercise of share Director exercised option exercise price date s options s M Allen nil nil nil nil T Atherton nil nil nil nil A Braithwaite nil nil nil nil 56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 260 240 220 00 2 180 160 140 120 100 80 performance graph and table The graph below sets out for the eight years ended 31 March 2017 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTSe 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest Total Shareholder Returns for 100 invested Dairy Crest Group plc FTSE 250 excluding investment companies March 09 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15 March 16 March 17 The table below sets out CeO pay over the same period.
The vesting period for this award has not yet been completed 50% will vest on 15 August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018 This figure represents the LTAP 2014 award as shown in the single figure table as a percentage of the maximum annual award under this plan.
The vesting period for this award has not yet been completed 50% will vest on 16 December 2018 and 50% will vest on 16 December 2019 percentage change in Ceos remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in the CeOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2015 16 and 2016 17, compared with the percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for those salaried members of the clerical, administrative, supervisory and management population allocated to Hay bands.
This group comprises 42% of the total workforce, and has been identified as the most appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements: salary taxable benefits Bonus 2016 17 2015 16 % change 2016 17 2015 16 % change 2016 17 2015 16 % change Ceo 000s 545 523 4% 33 32 3% 102 235 -57% average pay for wider 49 47 5% 6.8 5.1 33% 1.5 4.6 -67% employee population 000s relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 2015 16 and 2016 17: m 2016 17 2015 16 % change employee remuneration 41.2 44.3 -7% costs Dividends 31.1 30.0 4% Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 57 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD Ltap 2017 award The award to be made under the LTAP 2017 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
This award will be granted later in 2017.
Outcomes against the 2017 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
As set out in the approved Policy, in any year, in the event of performance below a certain threshold or where the performance against the scorecard for that year is determined not to be a fair reflection of the overall performance of the business, the Committee may determine that no award will be granted.
Director Level of award % of salary Face value 000s end of vesting period mark allen 67.2% 376 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date tom atherton 67.2% 228 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date adam Braithwaite 67.2% 171 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Determination of 2017 grant: measure Kpi alignment with strategy Weighting outcome profit Adjusted eBITDA target Delivery of profit is core to the business and 30% 0% supports the progressive dividend policy Balance sheet efficiency ROCe target whilst maintaining net debt ensuring acceptable return on investment 20% 0% eBITDA in the 1-2 range within a sustainable level of gearing Corporate activity & Delivery of annual cost savings targets ensuring cost savings are delivered on an 15% 15% efficiencies on-going basis Delivery of synergies and return on ensuring that major acquisitions investment following acquisitions or divestments deliver against relevant successful divestments when relevant synergy and return targets Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and three Brand growth is key to longer term 20% 14% years versus markets in which they operate business growth revenue Growth through Achieve each year the targeted proportion Innovation is a key driver of productivity and 10% 10% innovation of revenue from innovation in previous three growth years Corporate responsibility Range of metrics aligned to the CR pledges Delivering results in a sustainable way 5% 4% including improvements in accident which enhances reputation and incident rates, reduced CO emissions and stakeholder engagement 2 improved maintained BITC score total 43% For executive Directors this converts to an award of 67.2% of salary 1. profit Weighting: 30%.
outcome: 0% eBITDA for 2016 17 was below the target threshold due to an extended commissioning period in relation to the demineralised whey and GOS plants at Davidstow.
With regard to ROCe, the long-term objective is to maintain this above 12% with individual targets and ranges set each year by reference to budget.
58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 For 2016 17 a stretching vesting target of 15.8% ROCe was set.
A ROCe of 15.4% was achieved which was just below the vesting level but above the ROCe outcome in 2015 16.
In addition, year-end gearing net debt: eBITDA was above the upper end of the target range of between 1.0 and 2.0 times.
Given both the ROCe target and the gearing range were not met, no award was made under this element.
Where there is no acquisition activity, the cost efficiency projects can deliver the full 15% award and this was the case in 2016 17.
In 2016 17 success was achieved in removing costs with corporate costs below budget and procurement savings ahead of budget.
Overall there was a reduction in Group administrative expenses of 5.4m.
With regard to efficiency projects, considerable progress has been made in defining a revised IT strategy which will deliver cost savings and improved ways of working.
On the basis of this performance it was decided that a 15% payout for this element was merited.
outcome: 14% Key brand performance was broadly strong in the year.
The Remuneration Committee considered robust quantitative IRI data for all brands in reviewing this element.
Clover and Frylight grew share over 12 months as did Country Life spreadable.
Cathedral City lost value share but strengthened in the second half of the year.
Over a three year timeframe, Cathedral City, Clover and Frylight have all grown value share.
On this basis an award of 14% was agreed.
In the year ended 31 March 2017 product innovation drove the percentage of key brand revenue from innovation in the preceding three years to 13%.
The development of Cathedral City spreadable, launch of cheese snack bars and the continued growth of Clover with no artificial ingredients all supported this result.
The Remuneration Committee decided on this basis an award of 10% should be made.
outcome: 4% Our 2016 17 safety record achieved the best performance yet with zero reportable accidents in the year.
Customer complaints generally have been low across our brands, albeit we did see some increase in cheese complaints.
With regard to energy usage, this improved and better than target performance was achieved as did carbon emissions which were 13% below last years level.
no employee survey was conducted during 2016 17 however, considerable effort was put into maintaining employee engagement via enhanced communications including a full employee roadshow to which all employees were invited.
The Remuneration Committee assessed that corporate responsibility performance had generally been better than target, especially in the area of health and safety and a payout of 4% was merited.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2017 March 2020 is not met.
statement of implementation of policy in the following financial year The Directors Remuneration Policy will be implemented for the 2017 18 financial year as follows: Base salary 000s Director 2016 2017 mark allen 540 560 tom atherton 340 349 adam Braithwaite 255 262 Mark Allens base salary increased on 1 January 2017 and he will not be eligible for a further increase until 1 July 2018.
Base salary increases for Tom Atherton and Adam Braithwaite will be in line with increases across the general workforce and will be effective from 1 July 2017.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 59 Governance DIReCTORS ReMuneRATIOn RePORT COnTInueD non-executive Directors fees 000s role pre 1 December 2016 effective 1 December 2016 non-executive Chairman 155 155 non-executive Director base 38 50 audit Committee Chair 5 10 Corporate responsibility Chair 5 10 remuneration Committee Chair 5 10 senior independent Director 5 10 The Board noted that non-executive Directors fees had not been increased since 2008 and were below the level of comparable roles within companies of similar size and complexity.
Further to a review of market levels and recognising the need to recruit appropriately skilled and experienced new non-executive Directors, the Chief executive recommended to the Board that the fees were increased as above.
It was therefore determined that the fees be increased, effective from 1 December 2016.
Bonus measures Maximum opportunity for executive Directors under the 2017 18 bonus remains at 100% of salary.
Recognising the importance of reducing debt, the weightings under the bonus plan have been reviewed and the proportion of 2017 18 bonus relating to free cash flow generation will increase.
Performance will therefore be assessed against the following measures: Profit before tax 50% of award Free cash flow 25% of award Personal objectives 25% of award The targets for the 2017 18 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the Companys competitors.
The targets and payout against them will be disclosed in the 2017 18 report.
Categories in respect of the personal objectives include establishing new revenue streams and acquisition opportunities for Mark Allen, further managing pension liability, delivering systems change projects and managing the debt position for Tom Atherton and brand development, sales growth and establishing new sales channels for Adam Braithwaite.
Malus and clawback provisions will operate in respect of the 2017 18 bonus.
The malus provision will apply to the deferred share awards up to vesting.
The clawback provision will apply to the cash award for three years from the date of payment.
Clawback may be operated in the event of gross misconduct on the part of the employee and or material misstatement in Company or Group financial statements.
Long term incentive plan no grant of LTIP will be made in 2017.
The first grant under this new incentive structure will be made in 2018, subject to approval of the Policy and to approval by shareholders of the LTIP.
sharesave scheme The Sharesave Scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time executive Directors.
employees enter into an approved savings contract over a three year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of 500 per month.
At the end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price fixed at the time of the option grant.
Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the market price at the time of grant.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration members of the remuneration Committee The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of independent non-executive Directors of the Company.
During the year the Committee consisted of: Richard Macdonald Chairman Andrew Carr-Locke Sue Farr Stephen Alexander in his capacity as Company Chairman and Mark Allen, Chief executive attended the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Company.
the Committees activities during the financial year The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad Policy with respect to senior executives salary and other remuneration.
It specifically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each executive Director and reviews with the Chief executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
co. uk 60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 In 2016 17, the Committee met six times.
Attendance at meetings by members of the Committee is shown on page 31.
The Committee discussed, amongst other matters, the following: meeting agenda items discussed may 2016 Approval of 2015 16 Bonus, LTAP outcomes Approval of 2016 17 Bonus rules, 2016 17 Bonus targets and LTAP targets executive Directors Remuneration Pension changes for Senior Management Approval of Remuneration Report July 2016 Remuneration of new executive Director november 2016 Review of Remuneration Advisors executive Directors Remuneration December 2016 Remuneration Policy Review January 2017 Review Terms of Reference Remuneration Policy Review march 2017 Review of potential bonus and long-term incentive outcomes Remuneration Policy update Review draft of Directors Remuneration Report advisers to the remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has appointed  LLP PwC to provide advice on executive remuneration.
PwC has provided such advice historically and was originally appointed through a competitive tendering process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and market practice, providing remuneration benchmarking information for executive Directors and advice in respect of the review of the Remuneration Policy.
In this financial year, PwC was paid 99,000.
This is based on an agreed fee for business as usual support with additional work charged at hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including tax, pensions, network security and structuring work.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to that groups Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR Director of Dairy Crest.
The Chief executive attends all meetings by invitation, but is not present at any discussions relating specifically to his own remuneration.
statement of voting at General meeting The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2015 16 remuneration report at the 2016 AGM, and the latest advisory vote on the remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM.
resolution number of votes cast For against Withheld approval of Directors' 75,832,012 69,996,972 5,835,040 489,292 remuneration report 2016 aGm 92.31% 7.69% approval of Directors' 70,936,887 68,099,552 2,837,335 44,478 remuneration policy 2014 aGm 96.00% 4.00% The Remuneration Committee noted the outcome of the advisory vote at the 2016 AGM and remains committed to an open dialogue with investors, with engagement planned through the period ahead of the AGM.
The Directors Remuneration report from pages 41 to 61 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by richard macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 May 2017 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 61 Governance
