Corporate governance Directors remuneration report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report forFY17in TalkTalk Telecom Group PLCs seventh year as a publicly listed company.
Introduction Board changes during FY17 In line with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Board resignations Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Brent Hoberman, Non-Executive Director, resigned from the Board theRegulations, the Remuneration Report for the year effective from 20 July 2016. ended31March 2017 is split into two sections: Board appointments The Remuneration Policy, which sets out the Companys policy Cath Keers was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director onremuneration for Executive Directors.
The policy was accepted effective from 1 August 2016 and was appointed to the Audit Committee by shareholders by a binding vote at the 2014 AGM andhas been on the same date.
Subsequently, she has also provided her expertise effective for three years from this date.
Whilst there have been and experience in starting to chair certain meetings concerning the noamendments to the Remuneration Policy in the year ended Companys proposed further roll out of its Ultrafast Fibre proposition 31March 2017, the Remuneration Policy has been updated for the in York.
Fees were set by the Board in line with ourpay policy.
year ending 31 March 2018 and will be put to a binding policy vote atthe July 2017 AGM.
Board changes during FY18 Board resignations The Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the On 10 May 2017, Dido Harding will step down from the Board and her Remuneration Policy was applied in relation to Executive Directors employment after seven years in the role.
Onleaving the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2017 and how it will be implemented Dido Harding will be paid in line with her contractual obligations as for the year ending 31 March 2018. set out in the Remuneration Policy, in relation to notice pay, annual bonus for the year ending 31 March 2017 and pay in lieu of pension Aligning the Remuneration Policy with Company strategy and benefits.
andperformance In light of recent Board changes, the Board has taken time to evaluate Role changes in the year the strategic direction for the Company, with a reaffirmed focus on On 1 February 2017, the Company announced certain changes to the growth and excellent customer service.
On 1 April 2017, Dido Harding stepped down as Chief Executive of Sir Charles Dunstone as Executive Chairman, Tristia Harrison as Officer and on this date, Sir Charles Dunstone became Executive Chief Executive Officer and Charles Bligh as ChiefOperating Officer, Chairman, Tristia Harrison became Chief Executive Officer and arenewed purpose of the Company has evolved: to be the UKs most Charles Bligh became Chief Operating Officer.
There has been a recommended connectivity provider, dedicated to being simple, period of transition between 1 April 2017 and 10 May 2017 during affordable, reliable and fair for customers and businesses.
In light of which Sir Charles Dunstone, Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh have the recent organisational restructure following these new appointments, been working alongside Dido Harding as part of the transition to the theRemuneration Committee has reviewed existing remuneration new management structure of the Company, which is referenced arrangements in order to ensure that the strong link between the below and will be more fully described in next years Annual Report.
Remuneration Policy and the business strategy continues to remain Following this transition period, Dido Harding will step down from clearand that the right incentives are in place to support the delivery theBoard and her employment on 10 May 2017. of our strategy.
Pay changes in relation to the appointments of Tristia Harrison and Following this years review, the Committee will consult with major Charles Bligh are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
shareholders over the coming weeks around the proposed changes and shareholders will be asked to approve the new Remuneration Policy atthe July 2017 AGM.
The Groups remuneration approach applies throughout the Company and continues to be focused on enabling it to attract, motivate and retain high quality talent and ensuring there is a transparent link between remuneration and strategy at all levels, aswell as the long term performance of the Company.
44 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Remuneration Policy during FY17 Highlights of FY17 In the year ended 31 March 2017 and in line with the binding No changes have been made to the Remuneration Policy shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM, the Remuneration Committee during the year ended 31 March 2017. hasreviewed the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and has determined that it remained appropriate and fit for purpose for We have reviewed and updated the Directors Remuneration that period.
All remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors Report in line with the Regulations, to ensure that it continues andNon-Executive Directors have been operated in line with that to be simple and transparent forour shareholders.
The Company has now determined that bonus targets and Performance against the annual bonus plan targets for the year ended performance against these targets should be retrospectively 31 March 2017 would have resulted in a scheme pay-out of55.1% of disclosed one year in arrears.
Targets and performance against base pay for the Executive Directors.
Reflecting on the wider business these targets are therefore included in this report inrelation performance for the year and the continuing focus required to return tothe bonus scheme for the year ended 31March2017.
the business to growth, however, the Executive Directors felt it more appropriate to recommend a reduction in annual bonus pay-out to40% of base pay.
This applies a discount of approximately 30% Our priorities for FY18 tothe value of the annual bonus that Executive Directors will receive A successful binding vote for the revised Remuneration Policy for the year, and the Remuneration Committee was supportive at the AGM in July 2017. ofand approved this recommendation.
Achievement against themeasures set is shown on page 55 of the report.
A commitment to report the gender pay gap for the Company, in line with the Governments newly introduced guidelines by Remuneration Policy for FY18 April 2018.
The Group strives to achieve its objectives of a simple, transparent Launch the 2017 Save-As-You-Earn SAYE Scheme to and fair approach to remuneration.
The Remuneration Policy, which further encourage employee share ownership.
Employee has been reviewed and updated in parts, ahead of a three year share ownership currently stands at c. 45%.
binding vote at the July 2017 AGM, is set out on pages 46 to 52 and details of how this Policy will be implemented for the financial year To make further awards under the Shareholder Value Plan ahead are set out on pages 53 to 62, with the following key changes SVP to Executive Directors and members of the senior being highlighted: leadership team.
confirmation of our intention to retrospectively disclose targets, and achievement against targets, for the Annual Bonus Plan a year in arrears: The current regulations require the Companys auditor to report to the members on the auditable part of this report our intention to introduce a new maximum potential for Executive marked and to state, in its opinion, that this part of the Directors under the Annual Bonus Plan of 200% base pay but, in report has been properly prepared in accordance with the turn, to reduce the target, stretch and super stretch levels to 50%, Companies Act.
100% and 150% of base pay respectively: to make further awards under the Shareholder Value Plan SVP to Executive Directors and members of our senior leadership team: and to amend the maximum award permitted under the rules of the Discretionary Shareholder Plan DSOP from three times base pay to four times base pay, in exceptional circumstances.
I hope that you will find this report helpful and informative and agree that the changes that we are proposing to our policy, which will be shared in consultation with our major shareholders over the coming weeks, are appropriate and in the long term interests of both the Company and our shareholders.
I therefore hope that you support our proposed Remuneration Policy and the Directors Remuneration Report for the year at our AGM in July 2017.
I will be available at the meeting to answer any questions that you may have regarding the work of the Committee.
John Gildersleeve Remuneration Committee Chairman 10 May 2017 Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 45 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy This section sets out the Companys policy on remuneration for Executive Directors.
TheRemuneration Policy in operation for FY17 was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and took immediate effect following the AGM.
That Policy applied for aperiod of three years from this date.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, there has been no change to that Policy, which isavailable for review on the Companys website.
ThePolicy stated below, however, reflects small amendments to the Annual Bonus Plan andDiscretionary Share Option Plan detailed in the previous Policy in order to produce aPolicy which will be proposed for approval for the next three years by way of a binding voteat the AGM to be held in July 2017.
Remuneration Committee to share their views through regular employee surveys and the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making all-employee consultation body One Voice.
It should also be noted recommendations to the Board in relation to the individual that although the Remuneration Policy is specifically used to set the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the remuneration for Executive Directors, where appropriate, similar Chairman.
These recommendations comply with the Remuneration remuneration practices are adopted throughout the Company for Policy, which is set by the Board, and the terms of reference of the allemployees.
The Committee works with the Board to determine the The Remuneration Committee is committed to consultation with balance of allocation of profits between employee incentives, major shareholders when setting the Remuneration Policy and will shareholder dividends and reinvestment into the Group.
share the proposed changes of this years Policy over the coming weeks.
If any of these shareholders are opposed to the policy or any Remuneration approach proposed amendments to the Policy at the AGM, the Committee will The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to support the Group in: endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and aligning individual and business performance with the interests of respond to any issues they may have.
shareholders through the delivery of clear and stretching targets: Remuneration components strengthening the link between employee output and the delivery We define our main fixed and performance related elements of of shareholder value: remuneration as follows: supporting the Groups overarching philosophy, to maintain its base pay, car allowance, benefits and pension contribution value player positioning in the marketplace: fixed :and attracting, motivating and retaining high quality talent: annual performance bonus variable.
maintaining a stable, efficient cost base: In addition, for Executive Directors and other key senior management, enabling the Groups remuneration strategy to be tailored to its there are two long term incentive plans the Discretionary Share changing circumstances: and Option Plan DSOP and the Shareholder Value Plan SVP, which operates under the rules of the Value Enhancement Scheme VES.
reflecting corporate governance best practice.
These plans do not run concurrently.
The Company firmly believes that remuneration should be The SVP is an alternative reward mechanism for Executive Directors structured in a fair and competitive way, in order to incentivise and other members of the senior leadership team who will not normally individuals to achieve the highest levels of performance, and takes a participate in the DSOP.
The Remuneration Committee intends that, consistent approach throughout the Group.
generally, in any one year, participants may only receive an award under Packages are designed to be market competitive with fixed the SVP and no other long term incentive plan, unless exceptional remuneration set at market median levels.
Variable rewards, which circumstances apply such as the recruitment of key individuals.
are linked to challenging objectives based on the performance of the The Committee reviews, at least on an annual basis, pay-out levels Group, are designed to reward exceptional performance and for the for Executive Directors at minimum, on target, stretch and delivery of shareholder value creation.
superstretch levels of performance, in order to ensure alignment with our shareholders.
Employee and shareholder consultation The Remuneration Committee did not formally consult with employees Malus and clawback of the Company on the details of the Directors Remuneration Policy The rules of the annual performance bonus and long term incentive in the year ended 31 March 2017 when reviewing the Policy, ahead of plans allow the Remuneration Committee to exercise its discretion the binding shareholder vote at the AGM in July 2017.
In reaching this in using malus or clawback provisions, should it feel that it is in the decision the Committee is mindful that with the Companys strong best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committees culture of employee share ownership, with over 45% of employees policy on the exercise of its discretion is set out in this Remuneration holding shares in the Company, employees have the opportunity to Policy.
All future long term incentive awards will be subject to malus comment and vote on all elements of this report and Policy in their and clawback provisions.
Employees are also given the opportunity 46 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Executive Director shareholding requirement To ensure that the interests of the Executive Directors are closely aligned to those of its shareholders, the Company requires Executive Directors to build over a number of years and retain a shareholding in the Company of at least 200% of their annual base pay.
For the purpose of this requirement the Company requires these tobe in unfettered and beneficially owned shares.
Newly appointed Executive Directors are given the opportunity to build up their shareholding over a period of years.
Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Fixed To attract and retain talent Paid monthly in cash.
Base pay by ensuring base pay is Benchmarked against external competitive in the market.
market data from external Set at a level which specialists.
incentivises Executive Takes into account the Directors to implement individuals skills, experience and deliver our andperformance.
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of the all-employee pay review when making recommendations anddecisions on pay for ExecutiveDirectors.
Any increase typically takes effectfrom 1 July annually.
Under normal circumstances no Executive Director will receive an increase in excess of 10% of their base pay in any given financial year.
Fixed Designed to be competitive Core benefits typically include: Reviewed annually relative to Core benefits inthemarket.
a defined contribution pension scheme, or a cashpayment in lieu of a pension contribution Pension contributions are made incertain circumstances: through salary sacrifice, with the Company making a contribution private medical insurance for Executive Directors of 5% base pay for Executive and their immediate family: and Directors.
The outgoing Chief car allowance company car.
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer currently receive Executive Directors are also entitled to participate contributions of 10% base pay due on the same terms as all other employees in respect to historical arrangements.
of the following benefits: Cash payments in lieu of pension four times base pay life assurance: contributions may also be made to income protection: and Executive Directors, but these will be subject to normal tax and annual leave.
Company contributions for all participating employees are made at 5% base pay and all employees have the ability to join the Companys defined contribution pension scheme.
Company contributions will be reviewed over time, to ensure compliance with minimums set under auto enrolment guidelines.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 47 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy continued Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Fixed Benefits may vary These voluntary benefits arrangements include Reviewed periodically relative Voluntary dependent on the role the purchase of additional holiday and the ability tothe market.
benefits of the individual and toparticipate in all-employee share plans.
Variable Designed to focus The bonus scheme is based on a balanced scorecard Payment is typically made in June.
Annual Executives on the business that is comprised of financial and non-financial The Remuneration Committee performance priorities for the financial measures, which are reviewed annually.
Such measures retains the ability to exercise bonus year ahead and to align the include Headline Group EBITDA, customer discretion to adjust payments individuals remuneration experience and innovation measures.
upor down in exceptional with the delivery of superior The measures and targets are set annually by circumstances where they feel this business performance.
theRemuneration Committee to ensure they are course of action is appropriate.
appropriately stretching for the delivery of on target, The bonus scheme pays at the stretch, super stretch and maximum performance.
following levels: At least 40% of the balanced scorecard will be on target awards for Executive basedon financial measures.
Directors are equivalent to 50% of base pay: stretch awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 100% of base pay: super stretch awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 150% of basepay:and maximum awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 200% of base pay.
Variable Designed to reward and Discretionary awards of nil-cost options are granted Awards do not vest until the third Share-based retain Executives over the over TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC shares.
anniversary of the date of grant incentive plans longer term whilst aligning and may have a deferral element.
Level of vesting is dependent on achievement of an individuals interests Discretionary performance targets, usually over a three year If employment ceases during with those of shareholders.
Share Option performance period from the date of grant.
the vesting period, awards will Plan DSOP by default lapse in full, unless Awards vest after three years from the date of grant.
the Remuneration Committee 60% of the total vested options are typically exercisable exercises its discretion.
in the third year, with the remaining 40% typically being eligible for exercise from the fourth year.
The maximum level of award is a 300% base pay multiple, There is no intention to award DSOP awards to those unless the Board determines that Executive Directors participating in the Shareholder exceptional circumstances exist Value Plan SVP.
However, this plan is included in which justify exceeding this limit, the Remuneration Policy to give the Remuneration in which case options will not Committee flexibility to make an award in the case exceed 400% of base pay.
ofa new hire or new Executive Director promotion.
The DSOP scheme rules were approved by shareholders in March 2010 as part of the demerger from Carphone Warehouse and an updated version of these will be put to shareholders at the July 2017 AGMfor approval.
1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for Headline EBITDA definition and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of Headline information .
48 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Variable Designed to reward and The SVP, awarded under the VES rules, is designed to Awards are discretionary and are Share-based retain Executives over enable participants to share in the incremental value made as a block award to last four incentive plans thelonger term whilst of the Group in excess of an opening valuation, as years rather than an annual award.
aligning an individuals determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Each SVP award under Each participant is entitled to interests with those of award entitles the participant to purchase a fixed the VES rules purchase an agreed number of shareholders and in turn number of separate shares Participation shares Participation shares, with no delivering significant inthe subsidiary company, TalkTalk Group Limited, participant being awarded more shareholder value.
the holding company for the TalkTalk business.
than 10% of the value of the The number of TalkTalk shares issued to each poolcreated.
participant is determined by the incremental 60% of the award vests after three valuepool created above a hurdle and therefore years, with the remaining 40% of return to shareholders.
the award vesting after four years.
The vesting of awards will be subject to continued Vesting may occur earlier if employment and the satisfaction of performance the Company was taken over, conditions and or other specified events as subject to the discretion of the determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee has discretion to apply other A cap on the total value of the appropriate performance conditions as it sees fit.
awards that vest at the end of the Participation shares that are purchased by four year period applies and total participants are acquired at market value and awards will not result in a dilution participants are offered a loan from TalkTalk at of the issued share capital of the acommercial rate of interest in order to fund Company of more than 2.75%.
The VES rules were first approved When the awards vest the Participation shares will by shareholders in March 2010 have a value equal to the corresponding percentage as part of the demerger from they represent of the incremental value if any of Carphone Warehouse and an the TalkTalk businesses at the time of vesting in updated version of these will be excess ofthe applicable opening valuation and shall put before shareholders at the then bepurchased by the Company for cash and or July 2017 AGM for approval.
by the issue or transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Any loan made to the participants to acquire Participation shares will be required to be repaid atthat time.
If the market value of the Participation shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any accrued interest then the participant may be required to repay a proportion of the loan upto 20%, the amount of which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine.
Executive Directors, PLC Committee members and Executive Committee members will be required tohold 100% of any vested shares for a period of twelvemonths following vesting.
Other participants will be required to hold 50% of vested shares for a twelve month period.
Participation shares are generally forfeited to the value of the original loan plus accrued interest in the event that a participant leaves the Company prior to the vesting date.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 49 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration scenarios The charts below illustrate the level of total remuneration the current Executive Directors could receive under the Remuneration Policy basedon three levels of performance to ensure alignment with returns, which are received by our shareholders at: minimum, on target andmaximum levels of performance.
The on target level of total remuneration represents performance in line with the Companys expectations and maximum is considered to be the maximum level of total remuneration in practice, but the cap on the SVP has intentionally been set atalevel higher than this.
4 Base pay Benefits, pension and car allowance Annual bonus LTIP Notes 1 Base pay is actual base pay for the year ended 31 March 2018.
2 Taxable benefits are at the level over the year ended 31 March 2018.
3 Pension is based on a 10% Company contribution cash in lieu for Iain Torrens and a 5% Company contribution for Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh.
Sir Charles Dunstone does not participate in the pension scheme.
4 A nnual performance bonus is at 50% of base pay for target performance, 100% of base pay for stretch performance, 150% of base pay for super stretch performance and 200% ofbase pay for maximum performance.
Sir Charles Dunstone does not participate in the annual performance bonus.
5 SVP outcomes include assumed share price increases over the four year performance term.
Sir Charles Dunstone does not participate in any long term incentive plan.
6 As the SVP is a block award over a four year term rather than an annual award, we have annualised the potential pay-out over a four year period.
Dido Harding was paid in full in relation to her base pay, pension and other benefits from 1 April 2017 to the date she stepped down from the Board and her employment on 10 May 2017.
50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Other sharebased remuneration In hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may TalkTalk SaveAsYouEarn SAYE Scheme also make a buy-out award to an external candidate in compensation The Company operates an all-employee, HMRC-approved, SAYE for any remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous scheme, which all eligible employees and Executive Directors are employer.
In making such an award, the Committee will take into able to participate in.
All eligible employees are invited to join the consideration relevant performance conditions, vesting periods scheme on an annual basis, subject to maximum participation andthe form in which the award was made.
It is usual that any levels, currently 500 per month, or in line with HMRC limits if these buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
In exceptional are increased in the future.
Details of current schemes can be found circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make an exceptional in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report.
award under one of the Companys existing long term incentive plans in order to compensate a candidate for any remuneration TalkTalk Share Match Plan SMP arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Company operates an all-employee, HMRC-approved Share Match Plan.
The TTG Share Match Plan enables eligible employees The Remuneration Committee would only consider making such topurchase market priced shares by entering into a partnership awards where the individual has lost an award as a result of joining shareagreement and holding such shares in trust for up to five years.
theGroup and awards will be subject to continued employment and The rules of the Plan allow an employee maximum contribution of performance conditions, as appropriate.
Following the appointment 1,800 per annum, or in line with HMRC limits if these are increased.
of a new Executive Director the shareholders will be informed of the The Remuneration Committee, at its discretion, may award matching details as soon as practicable.
and or free shares to eligible participants.
Matching shares may There may be exceptional and unforeseen circumstances where begranted up to a maximum ratio of two matching shares for each theRemuneration Committee considers it appropriate to exercise partnership share purchased by a participant.
Free shares may be discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R to grant an award to awarded up to a maximum value of 3,600 tax free per annum, facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a variable orinline with HMRC limits if these are increased.
or performance related award is made under such circumstances, Currently the Company provides one matching share for each the Remuneration Committee confirms that the award will be within partnership share purchased by participating employees or the limits specified in the Remuneration Policy table.
The Remuneration Committee emphasises that such discretion would only ever be used in genuinely unforeseen and exceptional Service contracts and remuneration packages events where it would be disproportionate to seek shareholder Service contracts for Executive Directors approval at ageneral meeting.
The Remuneration Committee Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties are considers that in practice such events would arise highly required to give twelve months notice of termination of employment.
infrequently, if at all, for the duration of the Remuneration Policy.
At the Companys discretion they may terminate the contract Where such an event arises, the Remuneration Committee will immediately and not require the Director to work their notice and consult with major shareholders and an explanation on how instead pay twelve months contractual pay plus benefits.
The discretion has been exercised would be provided in the following Executive Directors service contracts also include a twelve month years Remuneration Report.
These contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Recruitment policy for new hires When hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy stated previously, including the maximum limits for each remuneration component.
The Remuneration Committee will take all relevant factors into consideration when making a remuneration decision on a new Executive hire to ensure that these decisions are being made inthebest interests of the Company and its shareholders, including, but not limited to: quantum: type of remuneration being offered: the impact on existing remuneration arrangements for otherDirectors: the remuneration package of any exiting equivalent Director: and the remuneration arrangements of the candidate in their previousrole.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 51 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts and remuneration packages continued The default position is for annual bonus amounts and the vesting Relocation packages ofshare-based awards for good leavers to be pro-rated for time There may be occasions when hiring a new Executive Director that served from the start date of the scheme to the individuals exit arelocation package is awarded, where a candidate and or the dateand will be subject to the applicable rules of the scheme.
candidates immediate family relocate either on a temporary or TheRemuneration Committee will have sole discretion to determine permanent basis in order to fulfil their role for the best interests the good leaver status of an Executive Director.
The Committee ofthe Company and its shareholders.
In such instances, the willdetermine on acase by case basis whether any vesting of a Remuneration Committee retains the right to compensate for share-based award isappropriate.
reasonable and appropriate relocation expenses.
Fees for NonExecutive Directors Expatriate packages The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their On appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee remuneration.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of may offer assistance where a candidate and or the candidates appointment substantially in the form suggested by the Code, and immediate family is asked to relocate either on a temporary or each has a three month notice period with no compensation for loss permanent basis, from an overseas location to the UK or from the of office.
The Company has no age limit for Directors.
The dates of UKto an overseas location.
In such instances, the Remuneration each contract are set out on page 60.
Committee retains the right to compensate for reasonable and The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 60 of this appropriate relocation expenses.
These fees are reviewed but not necessarily increased on Remuneration Policy for internal promotions anannual basis, taking into account the responsibilities of the role When an existing employee of the Company is promoted internally and their participation in the various Governance Committees of tothe role of Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will theCompany.
align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy stated Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any annual previously, including the factors it takes into account for new hires.
or long term incentive plans, or any pension arrangements.
Any remuneration awarded prior to promotion to the role of Executive External appointments Director will be retained and will be subject to the previous payment The Board supports Executive Directors holding Non-Executive terms.
The shareholders will be informed of any such remuneration Directorships of other companies and believes that any such inthe Directors Remuneration Report following promotion.
appointments are part of the continuing development of the Exit payments Executive Directors from which the Company will ultimately The Company operates the following policy in respect of exit payments: benefit.
The Board has reviewed all such appointments and those appointments that the Board believes require disclosure pursuant Executive Directors have a twelve month notice period from the tothe Code are set out on page 61.
The Board has also agreed that Company and they in turn are asked to give the Company twelve the Directors may retain their fees from such appointments.
Exit payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years contractual pay plus other benefits, and any contractual notice pay, unless determined otherwise by the Board in exceptional circumstances, or unless otherwise dictated by law.
The Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and the vesting of any share-based award, taking into consideration the individual circumstances under which an Executive Director is leaving theCompany.
52 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration The following sections set out how the Companys Remuneration Policy was implemented in the year ended 31 March 2017 and how it will be implemented for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Single figure of remuneration To assist shareholders understanding and in line with the Regulations, the table below provides a single figure of remuneration for each Executive Director.
The information for Non-Executive Directors is included in the table on page 60.
2 Value of benefits received by the Director in the year.
The components of taxable benefits are as follows: car allowance cash amount received in the year: and private medical insurance cost to the Company in the year for the Executive Director and their family.
3 Value of pension contribution made or cash in lieu paid made by the Company in the year.
4 Value of annual bonus payable in respect of the year and based on performance for the financial year.
5 V alue of LTIP vesting in the year.
This relates to the DSOP 2013, 20% of which vested in May 2016.
The remaining 80% of the award immediately lapsed on 12 May 2016.
The share price on the date of vesting was 2.691.
6 Original DSOP 2013 award was made as a multiple of base pay.
At the time of the award, Charles Blighs base pay was 325,000 and Tristia Harrisons base pay was 300,000.
7 Dido Hardings base pay was increased from 550,000 to 600,000 effective 1 July 2016.
8 Charles Bligh and Tristia Harrisons base pay was increased from 375,000 to 400,000 effective 1 July 2016.
3 Value of pension contribution made or cash in lieu paid by the Company in the year.
5 Dido Harding has decided to donate her bonus to charitable causes.
6 V alue of LTIP vesting in the year.
This relates to the DSOP 2012, 50% of which vested in May 2015, after the TSR performance condition was determined to have exceeded its super stretch level.
The remaining 50% of the award relating to EPS immediately lapsed on 14 May 2015.
The share price on the date of vesting was 3.841.
7 Original DSOP 2012 award was made as a multiple of base pay.
8 Under the 2015 SAYE, Iain Torrens was granted 5,863 options on 12 June 2015 at an option price of 3.07.
9 Charles Bligh and Tristia Harrisons base pay was increased from 335,000 to 375,000 effective 1 July 2015 as disclosed in last years report.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 53 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Appointments in the year ended 31 March 2017 As in prior years, remuneration increases for Executive Directors Cath Keers was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and was were reviewed in line with market trends, peer group benchmarking appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 August 2016, and her fees and current internal practices.
Peer group analysis was conducted were set in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Subsequently, she has by Willis Towers Watson, comparing against FTSE-listed companies provided her expertise and experience in starting to chair certain with comparable revenue and market capitalisation.
meetings in respect of the Companys Ultrafast Fibre proposition For the year ended 31 March 2017 average base pay increases for all inYork.
Her fees in relation to these duties for the year ending other employees were 2%.
31March 2017 are reflected on page 60 of the report.
Year ending 31 March 2018 In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee considered Due to the organisational restructure and the appointment of both internal and external factors when setting the remuneration TristiaHarrison to the role of Chief Executive Officer andCharles Bligh package for the newly appointed Non-Executive Director, in order to the role of Chief Operating Officer, the base pay of both individuals toensure that the decisions taken were made in the best interests will increase to 500,000, effective from 1 April 2017.
Inreaching ofthe Company and its shareholders.
these recommendations, the Remuneration Committee carefully considered the significant change in responsibility, market trends, Appointments in the year ended 31 March 2018 current internal practices and the base pay of the outgoing Chief On 1 February 2017 the Company announced certain changes to Executive Officer.
On 1 April 2017, Dido Harding stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and, on this date, Sir Charles Dunstone became For the year ending 31 March 2018, average base pay increases for all Executive Chairman, Tristia Harrison became Chief Executive Officer other employees will be 2%.
In line with our approach last year, there and Charles Bligh became Chief Operating Officer.
There has been has been no all-employee increase applied and business units have aperiod of transition between 1 April 2017 and 10 May 2017 during had complete discretion to apply their pay budget.
Within the 2% pay which Sir Charles Dunstone, Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh have budget, adjustments were made in order to ensure that no employee been working alongside Dido Harding as part of the transition to the of the Company is in receipt of base pay lower than the Living Wage, new management structure of the Company, which is referenced in line with the commitment made in prior years.
Market adjustments below and will be more fully described in next years Annual Report.
were also made where necessary, to reflect local pay levels in the Following this transition period, Dido Harding has stepped down Salford area, ahead of our Soapworks relocation in June 2017. from theBoard and her employment on 10 May 2017.
Pension contributions Details of the new remuneration packages for Tristia Harrison Year ended 31 March 2017 andCharles Bligh are set out below.
There were no changes to During the course of the year, Executive Directors received theremuneration package of Sir Charles Dunstone as a result Company pension contributions in line with the Remuneration ofhisappointment.
There were no Directors who were members of a defined benefit pension scheme during the year.
Leavers in the year ended 31 March 2017 Brent Hoberman stepped down from the Board on 20 July 2016.
Dido Harding had previously left the pension scheme at the end ofFebruary 2014 and therefore a cash payment in lieu of pension, Base pay equivalent to 10% of base pay, was made for the year ended Year ended 31 March 2017 31March2017.
Following the announcement of the Companys preliminary results Iain Torrens chose not to join the Company pension scheme on for the year ended 31 March 2016, the Remuneration Committee hisappointment and therefore a cash payment in lieu of pension, undertook a review of Executive remuneration, and after careful equivalent to 10% of base pay, was made for the year ended consideration, it was agreed to increase the base pay of Dido Harding, 31March2017.
Pension contributions for Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh were During the period, the Committee agreed an increase to the base made by the Company of 5% of their base pay for the year ended pay of Dido Harding from 550,000 to 600,000, which was 31March 2017. effective from 1 July 2016.
The pension schemes provided for other employees of the Group The Committee also determined that the base pay of both areincluded in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
TristiaHarrison and Charles Bligh would be increased to 400,000, which was a 7% uplift and was effective from 1 July 2016.
Year ending 31 March 2018 In the year ending 31 March 2018, pension contributions from In making all of these determinations, the Committee took into theCompany to Iain Torrens will continue to be capped at 10% consideration the contribution that all three individuals had made ofbase pay, in line with the Remuneration Policy, and will be paid tothe Company, as well as the ongoing contribution that they would asacash payment in lieu.
Pension payments for Charles Bligh continue to make to the business.
andTristia Harrison will be capped at 5% of base pay, in line with theRemuneration Policy.
54 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Annual performance bonus Year ended 31 March 2017 For the year ended 31 March 2017, the annual performance bonus was based on a balanced scorecard blend of financial and non-financial measures as set out in the table below and, in line with the approved Remuneration Policy, Executives had an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to 170% of base pay.
Performance against the annual bonus plan targets for the year ended 31 March 2017 would have resulted in a scheme pay-out of 55.1% ofbase pay for the Executive Directors.
Reflecting on the wider business performance for the year and the continuing focus required to return the business to growth, however, the Executive Directors felt it more appropriate to recommend a reduction in annual bonus pay-out to 40% of base pay.
This applies a discount of approximately 30% to the value of the annual bonus that Executive Directors will receive for the year and was in line with last years pay-out, and the Remuneration Committee was supportive ofand approved this recommendation.
Achievement against the targets can be seen in the table below: % base pay Minimum Target Maximum Actual received in Measure Weighting performance performance performance performance relation to measure 1 Headline EBITDA 25% 300 320 330 304 3% 1 Headline revenue 20% 1,800 1,810 1,836 1,783 0% 2 On-net churn 15% Q11.3%, Q21.4%, Q31.3%, Q41.1% hit 6.4% SamKnows 7.5% 3.5 3.2 2.9 3.2 4.5% Throughput 7.5% 9.25 9.50 10.00 10.38 12.7% Mobile net adds 10% 190 200 210 214 17% Transformation4 15% See note 2 below 76.5% of target 11.5% 55.1% 1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for Headline EBITDA and revenue definitions and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation ofHeadline information to statutory information.
2 Churn targets are measured and assessed on a quarterly basis rather than on a minimum, target, maximum basis.
3 SamKnows is an external, independent measure of our network performance.
4 T ransformation is measured as A More Secure TalkTalk, Consumer Reinvention and Tech Transformation, both A More Secure TalkTalk and Tech Transformation are measured attarget performance with clear security plans in place and network stability improvements ongoing, and Consumer Reinvention is measured at stretch performance, following thesuccessful launch of fixed low price plans and the Companys rebranding launch.
When determining bonus payments, and the resulting adjustment down this year, the Remuneration Committee takes into account performance against the measures above, overall business performance and the individual performance of the Executive Directors.
With working capital and cash behind expectation, coupled with investment in an unsustainable mobile proposition and a contracting consumer base, financial elements of the scorecard have achieved below their expected levels, with Headline revenue being missed andHeadline EBITDA achieving between minimum and target performance.
Considered focus for the year on network development and decongestion, stronger than expected performance of our consumer fixed price plan recontracting proposition and greater than expected mobile net add performance have, however, resulted in strong performance in the remainder of the scorecard and have therefore resulted in a bonus being paid out to Executive Directors at just below target levels.
The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the strong business recovery which the Company has demonstrated in the past twelve months and is satisfied that this bonus has provided a significant link between reward and operating performance and the creation offurther shareholder value.
Year ending 31 March 2018 A review of the annual bonus plan was conducted in the year ended The Board has determined that the disclosure of performance targets 31March 2017 to ensure that the performance measures in the for the year ending 31 March 2018 continues to be commercially balanced scorecard continue to be aligned to Company strategy.
sensitive and they are therefore not disclosed in this report.
These Theexpected performance measures and their weightings for the targets are determined within the context of a longer term business year ending 31 March 2018 are set out below: plan and the disclosure of these targets could give information to TalkTalks competitors to the detriment of business performance.
Expected performance measure Expected weighting The Committee will disclose targets and performance against all Financials 45% ofthese measures in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
Growth 25% Customer experience 20% In addition to the newly proposed performance measures and weightings shown above, the Remuneration Committee is also Culture4 10% recommending a change to the target, stretch and super stretch 1 Financials are expected to be measured through Headline EBITDA, Headline levels and the introduction of a maximum level to the Executive revenue and Headline free cash flow.
Director Annual Bonus Plan for the year ending 31 March 2018, 2 Growth is expected be measured through net adds.
assetout in the Remuneration Policy on page 45 of the report.
3 Customer experience is expected to be measured through network performance security and internal controls.
4 C ulture is expected to be a measure of employee engagement and measures for cultural change.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 55 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Sharebased incentive plans As disclosed in last years report, subject to meeting the relevant Year ended 31 March 2017 performance conditions, the scheme would vest 60% in May 2019, The single figure of remuneration includes amounts for the value withthe remaining 40% vesting twelve months later.
On vesting, all ofoptions to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to shares must be held for twelve months from the vesting date for orheld by the Directors.
Details of the options for the Directors Executive Directors and 50% of shares for a minimum of twelve whoserved during the year are as follows: months from the vesting date for other participants.
If the market value of the Participation shares is less than the amount of the The TalkTalk Group Shareholder Value Plan SVP outstanding loan and any accrued interest, then the participant awarded under the Value Enhancement Scheme VES rules may be required to repay a proportion of the loan, the amount of Participation shares were acquired in 2014 and loans were granted which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to by theCompany.
Interest is accrued on the loan on an annual basis.
Asubsequent loan is provided to participants on an annual basis, untilthe scheme vests, at which point the loans plus accrued Interest is accrued on the loan on an annual basis, which is set by interest are repaid.
Loans were outstanding to the following HMRC and was charged at 3% during the year.
A subsequent loan is Executives in the year ended 31 March 2017: provided to participants on an annual basis, until the scheme vests, atwhich point the loans plus accrued interest are repaid.
There is 2017 2017 2017 Number of Outstanding nodouble benefit for any participant and any gain resulting from the % share Participation loan 2014 SVP would be deducted from any gain resulting from the SVPII Director of pool shares purchased and interest award.
Loans were outstanding to the following Executives in the Dido Harding 10% 2,000,000 335 year ended 31 March 2017: 1 Iain Torrens 5% 1,000,000 197 2017 Number of 2017 Tristia Harrison 5% 1,000,000 168 2017 Participation Outstanding Charles Bligh 5% 1,000,000 168 % share shares loan 1 2 Director of pool purchased and interest 25% 5,000,000 868 Dido Harding 10% 200 335 1 Award to Iain Torrens made on 2 February 2015, resulting in a higher cost per Iain Torrens 5% 100 164 Participation share than original participants.
Tristia Harrison 5% 100 164 The remaining percentage of allocated shares in the SVP pool is held Charles Bligh 5% 100 164 by other senior management of the Group.
25% 500 827 Interest on outstanding loans was charged at 3.00% during the year.
1 SVPII awards were made on 19 May 2016.
In line with the scheme rules, the first 60% of the SVP will reach its 2 The fair value of the award is equal to the outstanding loan and interest.
vesting date in May 2017, at which point the performance against the There was no clawback in respect of SVP or SVPII and no growth hurdle will be calculated.
Further information relating to Non-Executive Directors participated in this scheme during performance of the SVP will be detailed in next years report.
As disclosed in last years report, subject to meeting the relevant TalkTalk Discretionary Shares performance conditions, the scheme would vest 60% in May 2019, The DSOP is designed toprovide a long term incentive plan for with the remaining 40% vesting twelve months later.
On vesting, all certain employees of the TalkTalk Group.
It is the intention of the shares must be held for twelve months from the vesting date for Executive Directors and 50% of shares for a minimum of twelve Committee that, generally, inany one year, participants may only receive an award under one such scheme.
months from the vesting date for other participants.
If the market value of the Participation shares is less than the amount of the In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee, at its sole outstanding loan and any accrued interest, then the participant discretion, may, in hiring a new Executive Director, make a buy-out maybe required to repay a proportion of the loan, the amount of award to an external candidate in compensation for any remuneration which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
There have determine, up to a maximum of 20%.
been no buy-outs in relation to Executive Directors in the year SVPII ended 31 March 2017.
In line with the disclosure made in last years report, Participation shares Scheme interests awarded in the year were acquired at market value on 19 May 2016 and loans were granted There were no awards granted under the DSOP during the year to by the Company on the same basis as the SVP awarded in 2014.
There Executive Directors and no Non-Executive Directors participated are two performance conditions on which vesting is dependent: inthis scheme.
at least a 7% compound annual increase in the market capitalisation of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC from the starting valuation over the following three and four year periods: and TalkTalk Groups shareholder return should outperform that of the FTSE 250.
56 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Sharebased incentive plans continued Year ended 31 March 2017 continued Scheme interests vesting in the year The Remuneration Committee noted that the award granted under the DSOP rules in 2013 was due to vest in June 2016, and that whilst actual performance against the Total Shareholder Return TSR CAGRhurdle was significantly below the required target on the vesting date, that prior to the cyber attack in October 2015, performance was on track to reach the required TSR CAGR target of 7.8%.
After careful review and in consideration of performance prior to the 2015 cyber attack and of the subsequent business recovery thereafter, the Committee felt it appropriate to exercise its discretion and to determine that 20% of the total award should vest in May 2016, on the condition that no options under this award would be exercised until at least the date of the preliminary results for the year ended 31 March 2017.
All remaining unvested options under this award lapsed with immediate effect in May 2016.
The partial vesting of the DSOP 2013 resulted in 90,498 nil-priced options vesting in respect of Dido Harding, and 58,824 and 54,299 nil-priced options vesting in respect of Charles Bligh and Tristia Harrison respectively.
Scheme interests exercised in the year Performance Number Scheme Type conditions Exercise of options Exercise Director type of award apply price exercised date Dido Harding DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.90 204,918 15 November 2016 Charles Bligh DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.90 266,393 15 November 2016 Tristia Harrison DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.90 245,9014 15 November 2016 Tristia Harrison CSOP 20085 0.51 unapproved Yes6 1.90 125,0007 15 November 2016 1 Performance conditions are set out in the 2015 Annual Report.
2 Dido Harding sold 96,796 shares in order to cover applicable tax liability.
3 Charles Bligh sold 125,835 shares in order to cover applicable tax liability.
4 Tristia Harrison sold 116,152 shares in order to cover applicable tax liability.
5 Award previously vested in 2010 and 2011 as per last years report.
6 Performance conditions were set prior to the demerger with CPW 2010 and were set out in the CPW 2009 Annual Report.
7 Tristia Harrison sold 83,721 shares in order to cover applicable tax liability.
All awards currently held by Executive Directors are detailed in the following table.
Total DSOP and CSOP under option at year ended 31 March 2017 Performance Average share Scheme Type conditions price used Face value Minimum level Vesting Director type of award apply3 for grant of award1 of award date 5 2 Dido Harding DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 200,000 25% June 2016 Iain Torrens4 DSOP 2014 Nil priced unapproved No 3.19 376,117 100% February 2018 Tristia Harrison DSOP 20135 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 120,000 25% June 20162 5 2 Charles Bligh DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 130,000 25% June 2016 826,117 1 Face value is calculated as the number of remaining options awarded multiplied by the average share price over the five day period prior to grant.
3 Performance conditions are set out in the 2015 Annual Report.
5 20% of the total award vested in May 2016.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 57 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Sharebased incentive plans continued inline with our Policy.
All of the above percentages and caps will be Year ending 31 March 2018 further aggregated across the 2014, 2016 and 2017 awards at the The TalkTalk Group Shareholder Value Plan SVP end of the four year vesting period for the new awards to further Following careful consideration of and in line with both our current ensure there is no triple benefit as stated above.
and approved Remuneration Policy and the revised Remuneration Each participant will be entitled to purchase at market value an Policy proposed for approval at the July 2017 AGM, the Company agreed number of Participation shares as stated below.
Subject to proposes to make further awards under the Shareholder Value Plan theperformance conditions being achieved each time, 60% of the SVP which operates under the rules of the Value Enhancement award will vest after three years, with the remaining 40% of the award Scheme VES approved by shareholders in January 2010 to vesting after four years.
thefourExecutive Directors and a small number of our senior leadership team.
Participants will be offered loans on full commercial terms in orderto purchase shares in our operating subsidiary company, The Company maintains its belief that it is important to continue to TalkTalk Group Limited SVP Shares.
On vesting, these shares attract, incentivise and motivate senior employees in this manner willbe acquired by the Company in return for the issue of ordinary and, taking into account Company performance in the previous shares in the Company to participants or alternatively they may be financial year and the future direction of the Company, it recognises purchased for cash.
Based on the performance conditions, for any that it is essential to continue to align the interests of the Company, payment to be made to participants, the total value created by the shareholders and key senior employees.
The Company wants to Company would be equivalent to a share price increase in the region ensure that it retains the highest quality of talent with the requisite of at least 30% over the period.
skills and to ensure that it motivates these individuals to achieve outstanding levels of performance.
If this stretching performance threshold is not achieved, no payment will be due.
However, participants will still be required to settle the In light of the Companys current strategy, the Committee believes loans which have been made to them and if the value of the SVP Shares the SVP is the most appropriate vehicle to realignthe interests of is less than the value of the loans, the Remuneration Committee senior leaders to those of our shareholders.
The Company is hasthe discretion to require participants to pay 20% of this deficit.
confident that the proposed award will incentivise the team to The Committee believes that this part of the awards will provide a create significant value for shareholders in light of the changed strong further alignment between participants and shareholders.
strategic direction of the Company, for the next phase of development of the business over the coming three to four years.
Allemployee share plans Inline with previous awards, performance conditions will apply such TalkTalk SaveAsYou Earn SAYE Scheme that there first needs to be a stretching increase in the Companys The TalkTalk SAYE Scheme is a share option scheme and is approved market capitalisation.
The conditions are in line with our Policy and by HMRC.
The SAYE Scheme is administrated by a duly authorised previous awards and further detail will be provided in next years Committee of the Board.
All UK Executive Directors and employees report.
The Committee has discretion to apply other appropriate of TalkTalk and participating companies within the Group are eligible performance conditions as it sees fit.
to participate in the Sharesave Scheme as long as they have been In making its proposal, the Remuneration Committee has carefully employed for a qualifying period.
To participate in the Scheme an considered the fact that, whilst in line with our Policy, a further award eligible employee must enter into a Sharesave contract and agree will be made, in addition to the award made last year.
The Committee tomake monthly contributions between 5 and 500 for a specified believes, however, that this is the most appropriate way in which period of three orfive years.
toalign the interests of all parties following recent events and will Options granted to acquire TalkTalk shares under the Scheme have further aid the strong business recovery that has recently been an option price determined by the TalkTalk Board, which will be not demonstrated, as highlighted in our results for FY17.
Participants less than the higher of 80% of the middle market quotation price or who were granted awards under the SVP in 2014 and 2016 will also their nominal value.
participate in the proposed new awards.
With this in mind, the Committee has determined that no participant should benefit from No Executive Directors were awarded share options under the all three sets of awards and therefore any participant gain realised 2016Scheme.
from the 2014 or 2016 awards would first be deducted from any On 15 November 2016 Dido Harding exercised and held 4,687 ordinary participant gain realised from the 2017 award.
shares priced at 1.92, which were the result of the 2013 Sharesave In line with previous awards and in accordance with our approved Scheme reaching maturity on 1 August 2016.
On the same date, Policy, the level of award granted to each individual will be determined CharlesBligh exercised 4,687 ordinary shares priced at 1.92, also by the Remuneration Committee and each award will recognise the resulting from the 2014 Sharesave Scheme reaching maturity on individuals performance, including exceptional performance, but 1August2016.
no individual participant shall be awarded more than 10% of the total No Non-Executive Directors participated in this scheme.
In addition, a cap on the total value of the aggregated awards that vest at the end of the four year period shall apply equal Further details of the features and operations of the SAYE Scheme to 2.75% of the Companys market capitalisation at the time.
This is can be found in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
58 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Allemployee share plans continued Allemployee Share Match Plan SMP In June 2014, the Company introduced an all-employee, HMRC-approved Share Match Plan, which had been approved by the Remuneration Committee during the previous financial year.
This enables eligible employees to purchase market priced shares by entering into a partnership share agreement and holding such shares in trust for upto a five year period.
Approval for the TTG Share Match Plan wasgranted by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2013.
Both Dido Harding and Iain Torrens have received the following sharesin respect of the Share Match Plan during the period ended 31March 2017: Partnership Matching Dividend Total number shares shares shares of shares held purchased allocated allocated in plan 1 Dido Harding 896 896 1,792 1 Iain Torrens 896 896 173 1,965 1 These awards have been included in the shareholding numbers reflected in the table below.
Additional information Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are required to build and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company, equivalent to 200% of base pay.
Current shareholdings as at 31 March 2017 are set out below for Executive Directors: Holding Actual share requirement ownership as a % of Actual Requirement as a % of Director base pay holding satisfied base pay 1 Dido Harding 200% 4,411,039 Yes 1,393% 2 Iain Torrens 200% 3,376 No 2% Charles Bligh 200% 763,223 Yes 362% Tristia Harrison 200% 1,453,962 Yes 689% 1 Share price on 31 March 2017 of 1.895 used for calculation.
2 Iain Torrens joined in 2015 and has the opportunity to build up his shareholding over a number of years in line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
There have been no changes to the shareholdings of Executive Directors between 31 March 2017 and 10 May 2017.
Whilst there are no shareholding requirements for Non-Executive Directors, this is encouraged within the Company.
2 Appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 1 August 2016.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 59 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued Fees for NonExecutive Directors Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board, taking account of the commitments and responsibilities of the role and their participation in the various governance Committees of the Company.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors and their appointment dates are set out in the tables below.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in annual bonus, LTIP and pension arrangements.
3 A fee of 10,000 was payable from 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2017 in respect of additional duties disclosed on page 54.
Should Cath Keers continue to provide expertise andservices on an ongoing basis, her fee may increase to 200,000 for a period of up to twelve months.
There were no changes to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in the year except where there are changes in the membership of the various Committees of the Board.
Payments to past Directors In the year ended 31 March 2017, there were no payments made to past Directors not disclosed elsewhere in the report.
Payments for loss of office In the year ended 31 March 2017, there were no payments made to Executive Directors, past or present, in compensation for loss of office.
NonExecutive Directors letters of appointment The Committees that Non-Executive Directors serve on and dates of appointment are set out below: Date first appointed Effective date of current Non-Executive Director Committee membership to the Board letter of appointment Charles Dunstone 20 January 2010 16 January 2013 John Gildersleeve Remuneration, Nomination, Compliance 20 January 2010 1 April 2016 John Allwood Audit, Nomination 20 January 2010 1 April 2016 1 Brent Hoberman Remuneration 20 January 2010 Ian West Audit, Nomination, Remuneration 8 February 2011 16 May 2016 Howard Stringer Nomination 26 July 2012 1 April 2016 James Powell Audit 26 July 2012 1 April 2016 Roger Taylor Remuneration 11 November 2015 11 November 2015 2 Cath Keers Audit 1 August 2016 1 August 2016 1 Stepped down from the Board on 20 July 2016.
60 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Additional information continued The fees paid for services are set out below: Fees for external appointments 2017 2017 Company Nature of service 000 Director Organisation 000 Willis Towers Remuneration benchmarking Dido Harding Bank of England 20 Watson andlongterm incentive design 39 Sir Charles Dunstone was also Chairman of Dixons Carphone Group PLC, Relative importance of spend on pay which the Company believes continued to be a significant other The difference in actual expenditure between FY16 and FY17 on commitment for him in the year.
It should be noted, however, that remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to SirCharles Dunstone stepped down from his position as Chairman shareholders by way of dividends is set out in the graphs below: ofDixons Carphone Group PLC effective 1 May 2017.
Advice and services provided to the Remuneration Committee Dividend paid m Except when matters concerning their own positions are being 15m considered, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief People Officer are normally invited to attend the meetings oftheRemuneration FY17 150 Committee.
The Committee may discuss any matter affecting the Chairman without the Chairman being present.
135 FY16 Over the course of the year ended 31 March 2017, the Remuneration Total employee pay m Committee was advised on matters relating to executive remuneration by Willis Towers Watson.
The Remuneration Committee deems the -3m advisers to be independent from the Company and the advice it received during the year to be appropriate and objective.
FY17 136 Willis Towers Watson is a signatory to the Remuneration FY16 139 Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Comparing pay to performance The following tables and chart show a comparison of total pay for the CEO since the listing of the Company on 29 March 2010, with the remuneration of all other employees and with TSR.
2 It is not possible to show this value for the VES which vested in 2012 and 2013 as it does not have a maximum percentage of shares.
However, for information the 2010 DSOP award vested at 100% ofthe maximum in 2012.
3 Maximum bonus for Executive Directors was 200% base pay for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 2012.
4 Only the 50% relating to TSR measures of the DSOP 2012 vested in May 2015.
5 The Remuneration Committee determined that 20% of the DSOP 2013 should vest in May 2016.
6 The reduction in the single figure number in 2017 represents the lower DSOP percentage vesting and a reduction in the share price from the prior year.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 61 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued Comparing pay to performance continued The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between 2016 and 2017 for the CEO and all other employees of the Group.
Base pay Taxable benefits Annual bonus % change % change % change 1,2 CEO 9% 0% 0% Employees3 2% 0% 13% 1 Dido Harding received a base pay increase to 600,000 in July 2016.
2 Year on year percentage increase in annual bonus is due to base pay increase referenced above.
3 Actual average increase for all other employees of the Group was 2%.
TSR performance graph The graph below shows the Groups performance compared to the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 from the date of the Groups listing on 29 March 2010.
The FTSE 250 was selected as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member.
400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC FTSE 250 0 29 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations issued under the Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the GC100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance and the Executive Remuneration Principles published by the Investment Association Principles in October 2016.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance withthe Code.
In framing its Remuneration Policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the Code and the Regulations.
As required by the Regulations, resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy section and the overall Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
Voting regarding the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report was as follows: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Total votes Remuneration Report 718,650,490 9,803,659 577,537 729,031,686 98.58% 1.34% 0.08% John Gildersleeve Remuneration Committee Chairman 10 May 2017 62 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017
