Directors Remuneration Report Dear shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
This introduction explains how we made decisions during the year, and summarises key points from the Report, including performance and incentive plan outcomes, and Committee activities.
Business performance context As you will read in the introductory statements in this Annual Report, we are pleased to report a year of strong performance with overall results reflecting delivery against our strategy and progress towards our 2020 Ambition.
Both business divisions delivered profit growth in constant Anne Minto, Chairman of the Remuneration currency, with Bulk Ingredients BI delivering particularly Committee strong results, driven by good commercial and manufacturing performance.
Speciality Food Ingredients SFI performed well, delivering profit growth and margin expansion and continues to This year, the Committee take the necessary actions to strengthen its focus on customer considered the renewal of our service and commercial execution.
The innovation pipeline Remuneration Policy and approach.
Overview of our remuneration framework: At a glance 1. no changes proposed in 2017 Policy 1.
Our Remuneration Base salary and Market competitive elements to attract the right Policy and approach employment benefits calibre of executives including health cover, car are aligned with and defined contribution retirement benefits long-term business objectives and received Annual bonus Rewards achievement against annual strong shareholder performance objectives: Group financial performance: support no changes Max cash bonus is 100% of salary 2016-2017 metrics: are proposed at the Max opportunity is 175% of salary Profit 2017 AGM.
Any award over 100% is paid in shares, Sales deferred for two years Cash flow 2.
The Groups strong Chief Executive target: 75% of salary financial performance Chief Financial Officer target: 50% of salary against stretching targets is reflected in Performance Share Plan: Supports the Groups strategy and 2020 Ambition, incentive outcomes for to create shareholder value from profitable Group profit growth 25% SFI-led growth and to motivate and retain the year.
SFI profit growth ex SPLENDA senior talent: Sucralose 25% 3.
Overall remuneration Max award is 300% of salary Group ROCE 50% outcomes are between 15% vesting at threshold Pre 2016: EPS 50%, ROCE 50% target and maximum Awards since 2016 subject to a two-year post vesting holding period policy levels.
Shareholding requirements Chief Executive 4x salary Chief Financial Officer 3x salary Claw back and malus provisions Apply for two years after a bonus award or vesting of PSP awards Number of years: Performance period Deferral holding period Ongoing requirements 74 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION continues to be healthy with New Product sales exceeding Performance Share Plan PSP : awards made in 2014 US$100 million for the first time.
reached the end of their three-year performance period.
Our adjusted return on capital employed in the year to Some of the key financial highlights include: 31 March 2017 exceeded the maximum vesting requirement 1 Group adjusted profit before tax increased by 20% and is in excess of our cost of capital.
EPS targets for the 1 5% increase in SFI adjusted operating profit to 181m three-year period have not been achieved.
Accordingly, a 1 32% increase in BI adjusted operating profit to 129m vesting level of 50% of maximum was achieved.
22% increase in sales from New Products to US$105m Total remuneration outcomes are above target but below ROCE increase by 300bps to 14.3% maximum policy levels, which the Committee considers to be consistent with the underlying financial health and 121m increase in adjusted free cash flow, enabling net performance of the business.
debt EBITDA to reduce to 0.9x 2016 1.2x.
1 Percentage changes are in constant currency.
Remuneration Policy and shareholder approval Following a careful review, we believe that our current Incentive outcomes for the year Remuneration Policy and approach with the changes made As set out in this Report, headline incentive outcomes for the last year to the operation of the PSP remain appropriate in the year were as follows: context of our business strategy and our shareholders Annual bonus plan: awards for the year reflect strong expectations.
Accordingly, we are not proposing to make any financial performance, with Group profit and cash material changes to the Policy which was formally approved by performance ahead of stretching targets set at the start of shareholders in 2014.
The Policy presented in this Report is the year.
Actual awards, at below maximum levels, reflect an therefore essentially the same, although we have taken the assessment of safety performance opportunity to simplify some elements.
Performance highlights and incentive Remuneration Policy scenarios and 2. outcomes for 2017 3. actual outcome for the year Annual bonus Chief Executive 000s 2 2 Metric Target Actual vs target Total 1 015 1 339 2 800 4 440 3 239 Group adjusted profit 206m 233m 27m 5m before tax PBTEA 13% 4m Net sales less cost 1 343m 1 397m 54m 49% of raw materials 4% 3m 38% Operating cash flow 97m 114m 17m 45% 2m 28% 24% 18% 31% 19% 1m Bonus award to Chief Executive: 80% of maximum 100% 76% 36% 23% 31% 0m Bonus award to Chief Financial Officer: 90% of maximum Below Threshold Target Stretch Actual 2 Bonus targets and actual performance is assessed at constant budget threshold exchange rates.
See page 89 for more detail Chief Financial Officer 000s Total 670 906 1 840 3 167 1 462 Performance 5m Share Plan Targets Actual 2014 Award threshold-stretch 2014-2017 4m EPS 50% 6% 15% compound -5% 3m 50% annual growth over below 2m three years threshold 50% 26% 29% 55% 1m 14% ROCE 50% 12.6% 15.6% at 16% 100% 74% 36% 21% 45% the end of the above 0m 3 Below Threshold Target Stretch Actual performance period stretch threshold 50% of the award made in 2014 will vest, based on the Base and benefits Annual bonus Performance Share Plan combination of EPS and ROCE performance See page 91 for more detail includes ROCE definition 3 Does not include the value from compensatory share awards made on employment see page 96. www.
com 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee formed this view thoughtfully, taking a number We intentionally operate a simple overall remuneration of factors into account, as described below.
framework While the regulatory disclosures are detailed, our remuneration Since the 2014 Policy was adopted, we have continued to framework remains simple: engage proactively with shareholders The components of remuneration salary and benefits, an We have engaged proactively with shareholders over annual bonus and a single long-term incentive plan each successive years, and I am pleased to report that the level of have a clear purpose, and incentive plan metrics are aligned shareholder support for our core remuneration framework with our business strategy, and with the successful delivery remains strong most recent policy and report resolutions of long-term financial growth and returns to shareholders, enjoying support of 97.9% and 93.0% respectively and are consistent with our 2020 Ambition We made specific changes to the long-term incentive PSP We maintain a strong alignment with shareholders interests framework last year, which were the subject of detailed by requiring executive directors to maintain significant consultation with shareholders, and which align well with personal shareholdings through the post-vesting holding our business strategy and long-term ambition for growth period applicable to PSP awards and through safeguards We consulted ahead of the publication of this report with a such as malus and claw back provisions which apply to broad group including many of our largest 30 shareholders, incentive awards following their release.
offering meetings with me, to explain our intended approach No material changes to Policy: retaining flexibility to reflect in reviewing the Policy, and to capture any feedback.
the needs of the business We have been responsive to prevailing investor and There are no material changes to the Policy, although we have governance themes simplified the wording in some areas for example, the Since the current policy was adopted, the Committee has been description of how leavers are treated, and tidied up a few attentive to governance developments and changes in housekeeping matters with input from our external advisors shareholders expectations, and our practice has evolved over for example, to ensure that incidental benefits are that time to adopt several governance-friendly features, for appropriately captured within the Policy.
example: Remuneration Report and Remuneration We were early adopters of claw back and malus provisions Policy for the year ahead Our personal shareholding requirements continue to be Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the more demanding than typical four times salary for the Chief 2014 AGM with 97.9% of votes in favour.
Changes to the Executive: three times salary for other executive directors operations of the PSP in existing Policy were endorsed by and Executive Committee members shareholders through a 93.0% vote in favour of the We have introduced a holding period for PSP awards, so a Remuneration Report in 2016.
The Committee is satisfied that combination of a three-year vesting period and two-year this Policy and approach provide strong alignment between holding period means that awards made since 2016 have a Group performance and the remuneration of executive five-year time horizon directors.
A dividend underpin supplements the existing financial The information regarding Directors remuneration is performance underpin, providing the Committee discretion presented in two Reports: the first relates to our Remuneration to reduce the vesting outcome in certain circumstances, and Policy and the second relates to the way in which our Policy providing shareholders with additional comfort that PSP has been implemented during the year.
awards will only vest if dividends over the period conform with our Policy Resolutions to approve each of these Reports will be proposed We also remain committed to maintaining the quality of our at the AGM on 27 July 2017.
Our intention is that the Policy remuneration-related disclosure for example, disclosing approved by shareholders will apply for a period of three years bonus targets in full.
from the date of the AGM, and will not be put to an annual shareholder vote.
Anne Minto OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 76 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Key Committee activities during the year In addition to the responsibilities of the Committee Reviewed the effectiveness of changes previously made summarised on page 87, during the year, the Committee: to the Annual Bonus Plan to ensure stronger links between our annual planning process and the Completed our consultation with shareholders regarding establishment of bonus targets: and adopted SFI volume the changes to PSP metrics which were endorsed by growth as a quantitative strategic top line metric in shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee place of net sales less cost of raw materials for the year specifically deferred the grant of 2016 PSP awards until ahead, to place a greater focus on the necessary actions after the AGM to ensure shareholder support for the to grow the SFI business in pursuit of our 2020 Ambition.
We were pleased to note that the Directors Remuneration Report resolution was strongly In January 2017, the Committee Chairman led the annual supported, with 93% of shareholders voting in favour review of the Committees effectiveness.
The review concluded that the Committee appropriately fulfilled its Scheduled additional time for Committee meetings, role and carried out its duties against the responsibilities and the annual agenda incorporates a programme of described in its terms of reference, noting also the regular updates on market, investor and governance additional time the Committee had spent during the regulatory topics year considering external updates on market and Continued to engage with other stakeholders on director governance developments.
remuneration topics including the Investment Association Working Group and BEIS consultations We were pleased to note that our Remuneration Report on remuneration published last year was awarded the Building Public Trust in Corporate Reporting Award for executive remuneration reporting in the FTSE 250: and, this year, we have sought to preserve our standard of disclosure for the benefit of our stakeholders.
Key sections of this Report are as follows: About these Reports Directors Remuneration Policy Report These Reports have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and 78 Remuneration strategy and context Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and 80 Remuneration Policy for executive directors Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 82 Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and 2013 the Regulations, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing non-executive directors Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
 LLP have audited such content as 82 Other Policy items required by the Act the information on pages 94 to 85 Application of Remuneration Policy 97 marked as audited.
Annual Report on Remuneration 86 The Remuneration Committee 88 Directors salaries and fees 89 Annual bonus 91 Long-term incentive Performance Share Plan 94 Single figure table and other audited disclosures 97 Directors shareholdings and share interests www.
com 77 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report Introduction This Report sets out the Companys policy in relation to Directors remuneration.
Following a careful review, as described in the Committee Chairmans letter see page 74, the Committee believes that our current Remuneration Policy and approach with the changes made last year to the operation of the PSP, within the scope of our existing policy remains appropriate in the context of our business strategy and our shareholders expectations.
Accordingly, we are not proposing to make any material changes to the Policy which was formally approved by shareholders in 2014.
The Policy presented in this report is therefore essentially the same, although we have taken the opportunity to simplify some elements.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 27 July 2017, the Committee will operate within this Policy from that date.
The Committee retains discretion on specific aspects of policy and implementation, as described in the Remuneration Policy, along with an overriding discretion to determine bonus outcomes and judge the level at which share awards vest, to ensure that payments are consistent with the underlying financial health and performance of the business, within the maximum opportunity stated in the Policy tables.
The Committee may make minor changes to the Policy without seeking shareholder approval, for example to benefit the administration of arrangements, or to take account of changes in legislation.
Any such changes would be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
Remuneration strategy and key principles The Groups remuneration strategy and supporting principles, which apply consistently to employees, managers and executives, are summarised in the table below.
Remuneration strategy Key principles Base pay and benefits are referenced to the comparative local market, taking The Groups account of company size and operations remuneration strategy is to provide packages For all employees, our pay for performance framework provides for meaningful differentiation in salary progression and opportunities for career progression, based that enable the Group on each individuals contribution to recruit, retain and motivate high-calibre The total package opportunity should provide meaningful rewards for superior performance and encourage the achievement of genuinely stretching short-term individuals in the and long-term objectives markets in which we operate so that Below executive level, key individuals who have a specific accountability for driving annual and longer-term performance may be selected to participate variously in we may deliver our sales incentive plan, the annual bonus plan, and the Performance Share Plan superior operational performance and Alignment with shareholders long-term interests is carefully preserved, for example, through: a significant proportion of pay being based on performance: outstanding financial effective governance around remuneration decisions: a considered approach to results setting performance targets: the adoption of shareholding guidelines at senior executive levels: and malus and claw back provisions on incentive awards All aspects of remuneration are designed to encourage a focus on long-term, sustained performance and risk management Our approach is intended to be equitable and transparent and operate across the Group, recognising that we recruit talented individuals and operate in an international market Outcomes must be achieved in a way that is consistent with the Groups Values and Code of Ethics, and that fosters sustainable, profitable growth 78 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION We operate in an international context The charts below illustrate the international nature of our business.
Although we are UK-listed and headquartered in London, UK, a very significant proportion of our sales, employees and shareholders are based outside the UK.
Accordingly, it is important that our remuneration arrangements are competitive in that international context.
1 2 Our sales Our employees Our shareholders 1 1 UK 1% 5 1 1 UK 6% 1 UK 45% 4 4 4 2 US 75% 2 US 52% 2 US 29% 3 1 3 3 Other European 3 Europe excluding 3 Other European countries 11% UK Middle East countries 22% and Africa 27% 4 Rest of world 13% 4 Rest of world 4% 4 Latin America 10% 2 3 2 2 5 Asia Pacic 5% 1 Sales by destination from continuing operations as per Note 5.
2 Analysis of shareholder register as at 3 April 2017.
A clear link between our long-term business strategy and executive directors remuneration The Groups remuneration arrangements place a clear emphasis on driving Group performance, through incentives that are directly linked to key performance indicators KPIs which are aligned with our business strategy.
In this way, we maintain a keen focus on delivering long-term growth and value for shareholders.
The table below summarises the performance metrics that we use to measure the Groups progress against our strategy, and describes how these link to remuneration arrangements.
Adjusted profit Adjusted diluted Net debt to EBITDA Interest cover 1,2 1,2 before tax EPS growth multiple 20% 271m 16% 47.1p decreased 0.3x 0.9x increased 3.2x 13.9x Link to directors remuneration Underlying profit performance Awards under the Performance These objectives are reflected in incentive plan target setting, and is a key determinant of awards Share Plan up to 2015 depend the corresponding impact on remuneration is primarily through under the Annual Bonus Plan on this metric the cash and profit metrics in the annual bonus and for awards under the Performance Share Plan from 2016 Sales of Speciality Return on capital Adjusted operating Safety and 1 Food Ingredients employed cash flow corporate responsibility -3% 996m 300bps 14.3% 120% 273m Link to directors remuneration Informs the sales targets in Awards under the This is a performance metric Safety and broader the Annual Bonus Plan.
A Performance Share Plan in the Annual Bonus Plan corporate responsibility volume metric will apply depend on this metric matters may be factored from the 2018 financial year, into the Committees being a more effective decisions on pay and annual measure of growth incentive plan outcomes 1 Changes in constant currency.
See our Key Performance Indicators on page 24 www.
com 79 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy for executive directors Operation performance framework Element Purpose Policy Maximum opportunity Changes to policy Providing competitive Salaries are referenced to the comparative local market Increases are typically limited to Base salary reviews take into account increases awarded to employees below executive level, No changes to the policy have been made.
Base salary fixed remuneration to and the impact on pension and other consequences of increases.
They reflect personal taking account of company size and operations, the the general increase for Group The reference to incidental benefits attract executives of individuals skills, experience, personal performance and employees in the same location.
performance consistent with the approach applicable to employees generally.
clarifies that directors may participate in the required calibre circumstances for example, following promotion into a benefits that are generally available to local new or expanded role.
employees: and provides for the settlement of expenses incurred in the normal course Benefits are provided in line with comparative local Retirement and or cash benefits Retirement benefits are provided by way of defined contribution or equivalent cash Benefits of business.
market practice and may include, for example: car or in lieu of pension are referenced to arrangements.
Contribution levels are 35% of salary for the Chief Executive and 25% of salary allowance, health insurance, life cover, and retirement external market practice.
for the Chief Financial Officer, reflecting contractual commitments on appointment.
The value of non-cash benefits is Employment and incidental benefits are not performance-related.
determined by the cost of Incidental situation-dependent benefits may include: Payment in lieu of dividends may apply to specific awards where any applicable conditions have provision, e. g. third-party health Reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the been satisfied at vesting.
Accordingly, no additional performance conditions apply.
course of business, and settlement of taxes in accordance No performance conditions are attached to sharesave awards because the sharesave plan is an with HMRC rules Receipt of any benefits would be in all-employee scheme.
accordance with policies applicable Participation in benefits generally available to the local more generally to employees in the employee population including for example HMRCsame location.
approved sharesave plans Relocation benefits, including healthcare Payment in lieu of dividends on specific awards.
Supporting The Annual Bonus Plan rewards achievement of financial Target is 50% of salary for Key financial performance metrics are selected by the Committee.
Additionally, the Committee No changes to the policy have been made.
Annual bonus near-term growth and other objectives established by the Committee for the the Chief Financial Officer and may select quantifiable metrics aligned with strategic and or operational objectives on a Key drivers: goals by rewarding relevant financial year.
75% for the Chief Executive personal or collective basis.
Profit strong annual The bonus award may comprise cash and deferred shares, Targets for each metric are set at the start of each financial year, taking account of the business Maximum cash bonus is 100% of Sales financial and depending on the level of award.
strategy, performance in previous years, market expectations and the prevailing economic Cash flow performance climate.
The final bonus award is made at the Committees Maximum total bonus opportunity Max opportunity: objectives discretion.
Subject to the overall maximum, the is 175% of salary, with any award Financial performance has the greatest weighting.
175% of salary Committee may make appropriate adjustments to ensure over 100% paid in shares, which A minimum profit hurdle applies before any bonus is payable against any of the metrics.
that the bonus outcomes are a fair reflection of the are deferred for two years.
Malus and claw back provisions apply: bonus payments and shares may be recouped in specific underlying performance of the Company and may also Deferred shares carry the right to circumstances during the two-year period following the end of the financial year to which the take into account factors such as the Groups safety receive a cash payment in lieu of bonus relates.
performance, operational performance, and personal the dividend during the deferral performance.
Supporting the Awards over Tate & Lyle PLC shares may be made each Flexibility to make awards of up to The following performance metrics were adopted for awards from 2016: No changes to the policy have been made.
Performance Groups strategy year, at the Committees discretion taking an individual 300% of base salary at the time of 25%: SFI adjusted operating profit excluding SPLENDA Sucralose Revised metrics were adopted in Share Plan by incentivising executives contribution and performance into account.
award to ensure market 2016 within the scope of the Remuneration 25%: Group adjusted profit before tax Key drivers: sustained profit competitiveness and taking Awards will only vest to participants if demanding financial Policy, following detailed consultation with 50%: adjusted return on capital employed ROCE.
SFI operating growth and capital account of the Groups performance requirements have been achieved over a shareholders, and shareholders approval These metrics are key determinants of shareholder value creation, because they reflect: the profit excluding efficiency over performance.
performance period of at least three financial years of the Directors Remuneration Report at effectiveness of strategic investment decisions: the focus on growing our SFI business: and the SPLENDA successive three-year commencing with the financial year in which the award the 2016 AGM.
The award will lapse entirely if growth in financial value of the whole Group.
If material changes to the metrics are proposed, Sucralose performance periods, is made.
threshold performance targets are The post-vesting holding period and the Committee would consult with key shareholders in advance of making a new award.
Group operating and retaining talent not achieved.
A two-year post-vesting holding period follows the dividend underpin were adopted as part of Targets are reviewed by the Committee ahead of each annual grant, to ensure they remain profit three-year performance period, so awards to executive Only 15% of any award made to this review.
appropriately stretching over the performance period.
Group ROCE directors have a five-year horizon.
executive directors vests for The Committee must be satisfied that the level of vesting is justified by the broader underlying Max opportunity: achieving threshold performance.
financial performance of the Company.
300% of salary A dividend underpin gives the Committee discretion to reduce PSP vesting if dividends over the performance period do not conform to the dividend policy.
Malus claw back provisions: awards may be recouped in specific circumstances during the two-year period after the performance period.
Alignment of Minimum shareholding requirements must be built over a Chief Executive: four times base The value of an executives interests in shares is directly affected by share price performance No changes to the requirements have Personal share long-term interests five-year period following appointment salary over time.
1 ownership with shareholders Similar requirements apply to other senior roles Chief Financial Officer: three times base salary 1 Included here as a key feature but does not form part of formal policy.
Number of years: Performance period Deferral holding period Ongoing requirements 80 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Operation performance framework Element Purpose Policy Maximum opportunity Changes to policy Providing competitive Salaries are referenced to the comparative local market Increases are typically limited to Base salary reviews take into account increases awarded to employees below executive level, No changes to the policy have been made.
Number of years: Performance period Deferral holding period Ongoing requirements www.
com 81 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy for the Chairman Other Policy items and non-executive directors Incorporation of previously approved Terms of appointment remuneration policy statements The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of We intend that provisions consistent with previously disclosed appointment and do not have service contracts or notice directors remuneration policies and or incentive plans periods.
Under the terms of their appointment, they are previously approved by shareholders will continue to apply usually expected to serve on the Board for a maximum after shareholders have approved the resolution to adopt the of nine years, subject to their annual re-election by Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
The Company Chairman and non-executive will allow, without limitation: directors receive a fee for their services, do not participate in the Groups incentive or pension schemes, do not receive any The honouring of contractual commitments entered into other benefits, and have no right to compensation if their before the Policy takes effect, or before an individual was appointment is terminated.
subject to this Policy The satisfaction of awards and or commitments made in Chairman and non-executive directors fees relation to incentive plan awards providing they were Non-executive directors fees excluding the Chairman are consistent with the Policy in effect at the time the original reviewed annually by the Chairman and executive directors award commitment was made.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Executive directors external appointments Committee excluding the Chairman.
The Board believes that the Group can benefit from executive Aggregate fees depend on the responsibilities assumed directors holding external non-executive directorships.
Such by each non-executive director.
A basic fee is paid to the appointments are subject to approval by the Board and are Chairman, to the Senior Independent Director and to each normally restricted to one position for each executive director.
Supplemental fees are paid to each Fees may be retained by the executive director concerned.
Accordingly, supplemental fees are paid to the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility Other incentive plan provisions and Remuneration Committees, and of the Research Potential impact of mergers and acquisitions or other Advisory Group, to reflect the extra responsibilities required corporate activity: in the context of a merger or acquisition, by each of these positions.
or other relevant corporate activity, any potential impact on Increases in fees arising from the normal annual review will the incentive plans would be specifically considered by the generally be limited to the market increase applicable to UK Committee.
In such circumstances, the Committee retains employees generally.
However, a higher or lower increase the authority to vary the performance target or the vesting may be awarded to ensure that fees paid are commensurate outcome to ensure that outcomes are equitable for both the with those paid by other UK-listed companies.
Fees are set participant and shareholders.
at a level to retain individuals with the necessary experience Change of control and voting: all the Companys share plans and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Group.
contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards would normally vest and become The Company may reimburse out-of-pocket expenses exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction incurred in the normal course of business and settle taxes of any performance conditions at that time, and in proportion on these in accordance with HMRC rules.
to the time served during the performance period.
Service contracts The Groups policy regarding executive directors service contracts and appointment terms is to take account of market practice, and to ensure that provisions in relation to notice periods or termination payments are not excessive.
Our policy is also to ensure that contracts provide appropriate protection for the Group, for example, in relation to restrictions on competition, solicitation of customers or employees, and the protection of intellectual property.
Executive directors are employed under service contracts commencing on dates as follows: Javed Ahmed Chief Executive 10 October 2009: Nick Hampton Chief Financial Officer 1 September 2014.
The contracts provide for six months notice from the executive and 12 months notice from the Group.
82 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION compensatory award will be made, taking into account the Service contracts for executive directors and letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors are form of award s that are forfeited, the timeframes over which they may otherwise have been earned, and any available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
performance conditions that would have applied, with the Beyond the items disclosed in this report, there are no further principle that such awards be made on a like-for-like basis.
obligations on the Company which could give rise to a remuneration or loss-of-office payment to a Director.
This Policy is intended to enable the Committee to structure an offer on terms that it considers to be in the best interests Policy on the terms of directors appointment of the Company and our shareholders.
Depending on the circumstances, and any restrictions or requirements that To ensure the continued growth and success of the business may apply, the Company may consult with key shareholders over time, the Company must have the flexibility to appoint new as part of this process and or disclose terms on which a new individuals to the Board, either by way of internal promotion or appointment is made through a regulatory information service.
external appointment, on terms that are sufficient to attract and motivate individuals of the highest calibre.
Policy on payments in connection with loss The following key principles describe our intended approach in of office these circumstances and are consistent with the principles It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally that apply to the broader employee population.
employed on contracts that provide for not more than The starting point for structuring any package on 12 months notice from the Company and at least six months appointment will be the annual remuneration framework notice from the executive.
To protect the Groups interests, under the Remuneration Policy that has been approved by restrictive covenants non-compete non-solicitation apply for a shareholders and is current at the time of the appointment.
period of 12 months following termination, less any period of To respond to specific circumstances and or to allow for garden leave.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer differences in practice over time and by location, the are each employed on contracts consistent with this policy.
Committee retains flexibility outside the Policy to provide The treatment of executive directors leaving the Company is market-referenced benefits which are considered necessary designed to support a smooth transition from the Company, or appropriate to the role, for example in relation to encouraging an orderly transfer of responsibilities, and taking healthcare and insurance, transport and security, and into account the interests of shareholders in securing the provision for retirement.
sustained performance of the business beyond the executives Where an appointment requires an individual to relocate, departure.
At the same time, the Committee is mindful of the internationally or otherwise, the Company may agree to need to avoid providing any element of reward for failure.
make payment s to offset certain expenses incurred as a Termination for dishonesty or misconduct or poor performance consequence of relocation or may provide benefits in line are circumstances in which the executive director would retain with our global domestic mobility policy, on appointment and only the minimum contractual entitlements on departure.
on an ongoing basis, depending on the circumstances.
Such In these circumstances no bonus award would be made, and benefits may include, for example travel, relocation and unvested deferred shares or performance share awards would tax-related assistance, and similar repatriation benefits in lapse.
Dishonesty or misconduct may lead to the operation of due course.
malus and or claw back provisions.
The current Policy provides for a maximum level of variable remuneration that is equivalent to 475% of base salary in the An executive directors departure in compassionate financial year of appointment.
This is consistent with the circumstances such as death or permanent disability would aggregate current maxima under the Annual Bonus Plan generally result in the most beneficial terms being received, and the Performance Share Plan.
The Committee retains as summarised below.
flexibility to alter the balance between short-term and If an executive director departs from the Company in other long-term elements within this overall maximum, and circumstances, the treatment would be considered at the awards may be made on different terms.
Committees discretion and approved on a case-by-case basis, Where an internal candidate is appointed, contractual in keeping with the principles above.
Such circumstances commitments that have been made prior to appointment to would potentially result in treatment that is more favourable the Board, along with any benefits and or incentive awards than the contractual minimum but no more generous than that that have been awarded at that time, may remain in effect which applies under the compassionate circumstances and be honoured, even if they would not otherwise be mentioned above.
consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy in effect at the time.
To secure the appointment of a suitable external candidate, the Committee retains the flexibility to provide additional compensation for the value of incentive awards or other benefits that are forfeited on leaving a former employer.
In such circumstances, the Committee may make use of cash and or shares, as it considers appropriate in the circumstances.
The Committee will exercise careful judgement in formulating the terms on which such a www.
com 83 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of remuneration Treatment in compassionate circumstances e. g. death or permanent disability Salary and benefits Paid or provided pro-rata to the termination date.
Annual bonus award or Any bonus or the vesting of Performance Share Plan award s will normally Performance Share Plan vesting be considered and approved based on the extent to which the original performance targets are assessed to have been met at the relevant year-end, reduced pro-rata for time over the relevant financial year s prior to the termination date.
The Committee retains the flexibility to approve the timing and value of any award on a different basis, depending on the circumstances for example to release awards on cessation in the case of death disability.
Deferred bonus awards and Performance Deferred bonus awards may continue in effect, or be released early at the Share Plan awards subject to a Committees discretion, depending on the circumstances.
The post-vesting holding holding period period applicable to Performance Share Plan awards will cease on termination of employment.
Provisions for payments in lieu of notice, The Company has the option to make a payment in lieu of notice in relation to the and requirements for mitigation fixed elements of remuneration only base salary, pension, and contractual benefits.
Depending on the circumstances, such a payment may be subject to a duty of mitigation.
The Chief Financial Officers contract gives the Company the contractual right to phase the payments and to reduce them if the executive mitigates his loss.
Other elements of remuneration described in this table are not affected by these provisions.
In addition to contractual rights to any payment on loss of office, any employee, including executive directors, may have statutory and or common law or other rights to certain additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
Similarly, additional consideration may be provided, if necessary, to secure specific agreements following separation for example an enhanced non-compete provision that protect the Groups interests.
Depending on the role and circumstances of departure, a director who has been relocated may be repatriated in accordance with previously agreed terms.
The Company may pay some or all of the costs incurred by the executive director in respect of legal, financial, outplacement or other relevant personal advisory services and or expenses in connection with relocation.
The Committee will approve such arrangements on a case-by-case basis, with a view to maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements and consistency with internal Company policies that may apply.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee led by the Committee chairman engages with our major institutional shareholders each year specifically on remuneration topics, alongside the Boards wider-ranging shareholder engagement programme.
The Committee also receives regular updates on investors views and corporate governance matters.
These lines of communication ensure that emerging best practice principles are factored into the Committees decision making.
During 2016, the Committee chairman engaged with many of our 30 largest institutional shareholders and representatives, primarily to consult on proposed changes to the Performance Share Plan PSP.
The Committee has been attentive to the need for simplification of pay structures and the need for transparent communication in relation to remuneration decisions, alongside the detailed remuneration principles issued by many institutional investors and representative bodies.
These perspectives have guided the Committees thinking through the year, and informed our decisions.
Our approach to remuneration has been relatively consistent since 2010, evolving over the intervening period to remain closely aligned with executional priorities and strategy, including our 2020 Ambition which was launched in 2015 resulting in changes to performance metrics in the annual bonus and PSP : and to keep in step with good practice in relation to features that improve the alignment with and protect shareholders interests.
These include adopting malus and claw back provisions in 2013, and incorporating a two-year post-vesting share holding period and dividend underpin for PSP awards in 2016.
Shareholders overwhelmingly approved the continuing use of the PSP as our long-term incentive, with changes to the metrics in 2016.
Shareholders formally approved the current Remuneration Policy at the AGM in 2014 97.9% in favour.
Our intention is that the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM will apply for a period of three years from that date.
84 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Application of Remuneration Policy for executive directors The tables and charts below illustrate the value that may be delivered from each element of the package under different performance scenarios.
Chief Executive Javed Ahmed Chief Financial Officer Nick Hampton Below Below Element value 000s threshold Threshold Target Stretch threshold Threshold Target Stretch Base salary 721 721 721 721 526 526 526 526 Pension allowance 252 252 252 252 131 131 131 131 Other benefits 42 42 42 42 13 13 13 13 1 Annual bonus 541 1 262 263 920 Performance 2 Share Plan 324 1 244 2 163 236 907 1 577 Total potential value 1 015 1 339 2 800 4 440 670 906 1 840 3 167 5m 5m 49% 4m 4m 3m 3m 50% 45% 28% 2m 2m 24% 50% 19% 29% 26% 1m 1m 14% 100% 76% 36% 23% 100% 74% 36% 21% 0m 0m Below Threshold Target Stretch Below Threshold Target Stretch threshold threshold 1 Annual bonus shows cash and deferred shares.
No bonus is paid at or below threshold: the target opportunity is 75% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 50% for the Chief Financial Officer, while the maximum is 175%.
2 The maximum award is 300% of base salary.
15% vests at threshold, and the target shown is half-way between threshold and stretch i. e. 57.5% of the maximum.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The principles on which we base remuneration decisions for executive directors as described on page 78 are congruent with those on which we base remuneration decisions for all employees.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the general pay and employment conditions of other employees of the Group when making decisions on executive directors remuneration.
This includes considering the levels of base salary increase for employees below executive level, and ensuring that the same principles apply in setting performance targets for executive directors incentives as for other employees of the Group.
The Committee also reviews information on bonus payments and share awards made to the wider management group when determining awards and outcomes at executive director level.
Salary and benefits including e. g. healthcare or retirement benefits, where Our approach to appropriate are competitive in the relevant local market remuneration operates consistently across Our pay for performance framework provides employees with opportunities for meaningful salary and career progression over time the Group, recognising that we recruit talented Remuneration arrangements provide a competitive reward opportunity to individuals so that encourage the achievement of genuinely stretching short-term and long-term objectives we may deliver superior operational Key individuals with specific accountabilities for driving annual and longer-term performance and performance participate variously in our sales incentive plan, the annual bonus plan, and the Performance Share Plan outstanding financial results All aspects of remuneration are designed to encourage a focus on long-term, sustained performance and risk management www.
com 85 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Report sets out how our established Remuneration Policy has been implemented during the year.
It also covers details relating to the composition and key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and provides more information on how our incentive plans have operated.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the financial year ending 31 March 2018 The Committee intends that the Policy contained in this Annual Report, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 27 July 2017, will apply for a period of three years from the date of the AGM.
Resolution to approve the Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM A resolution to approve this Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 27 July 2017.
Statement of shareholder voting The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2014.
The last Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 21 July 2016.
The following voting outcomes were disclosed after the relevant AGM: Votes 1 Total for Total against withheld number of number of number of Resolution votes % of vote votes % of vote votes 2 Directors Remuneration Policy Report 289 561 233 97.87 6 296 870 2.13 2 779 849 3 Annual Report on Remuneration 295 781 004 93.00 22 275 432 7.00 2 415 721 1 Votes withheld are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
2 On 24 July 2014, there were 467,386,228 ordinary shares in issue, excluding treasury shares.
3 On 21 July 2016, there were 466,659,112 ordinary shares in issue, excluding treasury shares.
The Remuneration Committee Meetings during the year The Remuneration Committee comprises independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met six times during the year.
Membership and attendance during the year were as follows: Number of Number of meetings meetings eligible to Directors as at 31 March 2017 attended attend Anne Minto Chr 6 6 William Camp 6 6 Paul Forman 6 6 1 Lars Frederiksen 4 6 Jeanne Johns 4 4 Dr Ajai Puri 6 6 1 Unable to attend meetings due to pre-existing conflicts, one of which included an induction meeting at an overseas Tate & Lyle location.
The Committee met twice after the end of the financial year, and before the signing of this Annual Report.
The Company Secretary serves as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board: the Chief Executive: the Executive VP, Human Resources: the VP, Global Compensation and Benefits: and the Executive VP, General Counsel are normally invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee, although none is present or involved when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
The Chairman-designate was invited to attend meetings following his appointment to the Board on 1 January 2017.
The Committees external advisor Deloitte LLP attends each meeting to provide independent advice, and also provides regular updates to the Committee on relevant corporate governance and market-related developments.
86 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Assessing the appropriateness of executive remuneration in the context of the Groups strategy and priorities as well as overall competitiveness, taking into account data from independent, external sources Setting the detailed remuneration of the executive directors, designated members of senior management, and the Company Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive, including: base salary or fees: annual bonus: long-term incentives: benefits: and contractual terms Setting performance targets for awards made to senior executives under the annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive plan, and reviewing performance outcomes Reviewing the broader operation of the annual bonus and Performance Share Plans, including participation and overall award levels Reviewing its own effectiveness each year.
The Committee has a formal calendar of items for consideration.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
Committee advisor We appointed Deloitte LLP as our external advisor following a review and competitive tender process during 2012.
As part of its annual processes, the Committee considered and confirmed that advice received during the year from Deloitte LLP was objective and independent.
Deloitte LLP is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct: this gives the Committee additional confidence that the advice received is objective and independent of conflicts of interest.
Fees charged by Deloitte LLP for the provision of remuneration advice to the Committee amounted to 59,100 for the year ended 31 March 2017, with fees being charged on a time incurred basis.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided services to the rest of the Group on corporate finance, consulting, systems, tax compliance and accounting.
Chart showing total shareholder return and Chief Executives pay The chart illustrates the cumulative total shareholder return TSR performance of the Company against the FTSE 100 and FTSE 350 Indices over the past eight years.
These Indices are considered to provide an appropriate comparison as they represent a broad equity market with constituents comparable in size and complexity to the Company over the period to which the chart relates.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested in each Index and the Company in the eight years from 31 March 2009.
Iain Ferguson was Chief Executive prior to that date.
2 The total remuneration figure shown for the year ended 31 March 2012 includes one-off compensatory appointment awards.
com 87 Indexed value of 100 invested Directors Remuneration Report continued Comparison of movement in Chief Executive and broader employee remuneration Value of 1 3 Change in value: year ended 31 March 2017 vs 31 March 2016 Base salary benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive 0% 110% 4% 2 Broader employee population 3% 16% 22% 1 No changes to benefit policies were made in respect of the Chief Executive or employees during the year.
The percentage change in the employee benefits figure is the result of differences in employee participation levels and changes in the cost of insured benefits, including healthcare.
The increase in the Chief Executives benefits figure reflects the increased cost of international healthcare since the position was originally established on appointment in 2009, driven by periodic premium renewals and the rates based on age and medical inflation trends over time as described on page 76 of last years report.
2 The broader employee population refers to a global population of salaried employees for salary comparison and the UK employee population for the benefits comparison, reflecting the context in which executive directors salaries and benefits are determined.
For the bonus comparisons, it refers to the global group of participants in the annual bonus plan so that the combination of business performance across our divisions that contributes to the Groups results is appropriately represented.
3 Includes deferred shares where applicable.
Relative importance of spend on pay Year ended Year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by employees of the Group continuing operations 328m 262m 25.2% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and purchase of ordinary shares 148m 137m 8.0% The year on year variance in employee remuneration is attributable to factors including foreign exchange rate movements reflecting our significant US employee base as well as variable pay arrangements driven by Group financial performance.
See Notes 10, 14 and 22 for further information.
Directors salaries and fees The sections that follow provide more information on remuneration decisions and the operation of incentive plans during the year ended 31 March 2017.
Base salary Executive directors salaries are reviewed annually, with effect from 1 April.
At the 2017 review, the Committee agreed executive directors salaries for the year ahead, taking current market positioning into account.
The average increase awarded to employees across the Group was approximately 3%.
Executive directors base salaries as at 1 April 2017 2016 % change Javed Ahmed 721 000 721 000 0% Nick Hampton 525 550 512 750 2.5% Executive directors external appointments Nick Hampton was appointed as a non-executive director of Great Portland Estates plc on 17 October 2016, and received fees of 31,319 in the period to 31 March 2017 which he is entitled to retain.
Chairmans and non-executive directors fees Fees are reviewed annually, in accordance with our stated Policy, by the Committee excluding the Chairman in respect of the Chairmans fee, and by the Chairman and the executive directors in respect of other non-executive directors fees.
At the 2017 review, taking into account the competitiveness of current fees against the comparable market position, and the time commitment required of each role and the level of increase applicable to UK employees, it was agreed that fees would be increased as summarised in the table below.
Fees per annum as at 1 April 2017 2016 % change Basic fees Non-executive director 66 350 64 750 2.5% Senior Independent Director 76 900 75 050 2.5% Supplemental fees per annum Chairman of Audit Committee 17 600 17 150 2.5% Chairman of Remuneration Committee 13 200 12 900 2.5% Chairman of Corporate Responsibility Committee 11 750 11 450 2.5% Chairman of Research Advisory Group 24 600 24 000 2.5% Dr Gerry Murphy was appointed Chairman on 1 April 2017 and will receive a total annual fee of 350,000 which will not be reviewed until 2019.
88 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Annual bonus Overview The bonus structure described here applied during the year ended 31 March 2017 and will be retained for the year ending 31 March 2018, with a change to the top-line sales growth metric, as described below.
The bonus is based on performance against three objectives: profitability: sales performance: and operating cash flow.
Before any bonus is payable, a minimum level of profit has to be achieved by the Group, regardless of performance against the other metrics.
For each performance metric, there is a corresponding multiplier, which varies between threshold, target and stretch levels of performance.
Once the minimum profit threshold is achieved, bonuses are calculated by applying the multipliers, which have the effect of increasing or decreasing the value of the bonus depending on performance against each metric in turn.
Target bonus % of base salary Step 1 Chief Executive Profitability Step 2 Step 3 Bonus achieved 75% multiplier Sales performance Operating cash as % of once minimum multiplier flow multiplier Chief Financial base salary threshold is Officer achieved 50% At target level of performance, the multiplier is one for each metric, so if performance is at target against each metric, the result is a target bonus outcome.
To achieve the maximum payout, performance against all three metrics must be at or above the stretch level.
Profit performance is the most important of the three metrics, so multipliers for the profitability factor are more heavily geared than for the other two metrics, that is, improvements in profitability have a significantly greater impact on bonus payments.
All multipliers and their weightings are agreed by the Committee when targets are set at the start of the year, reflecting the importance of each of the metrics in the context of the progress made against the Groups long-term business strategy.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 175%.
Above a certain level of performance, the bonus calculation for the Chief Executive is made on the basis that the bonus target is 50% rather than 75% of salary.
Malus claw back provisions Both the cash and share elements are subject to malus and claw back provisions for a period of 24 months following the award.
This means that they may be recouped in whole or in part, at the discretion of the Committee, in the exceptional event that results were found to have been misstated or if an executive director commits an act of gross misconduct.
Deferral into shares The bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash.
The excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares.
The shares are released after two years subject to the executive director remaining in service with the Group, and carry the right to receive a payment in lieu of dividend between award and release.
Both the cash and share elements are subject to malus and claw back provisions, as set out above.
Arrangements for the coming year This overall framework will be retained for the year ahead, with a change to the top-line growth metric.
The Committee has agreed that targets for the year ahead will be set against an SFI volume growth metric, which is a key driver of our long-term business strategy and 2020 Ambition.
The selection of an SFI volume metric is consistent with our reported KPIs, and does not suffer from the impact of fluctuating corn price in the way that an equivalent sales metric would.
We understand shareholders regard this metric as a key indicator of progress against our strategy, and we believe this metric will place greater focus on the necessary actions to grow the SFI business consistent with our business strategy.
The overall bonus framework will continue to give the greatest weighting to the Group profit metric, and retains the requirement that a minimum level of profit must be achieved before any bonus is payable regardless of performance against other metrics.
The Board considers that bonus targets for the year ahead are commercially sensitive because they may reveal information about the business plan in the year ahead that may damage our competitive advantage, and accordingly does not disclose these on a prospective basis.
However, we continue our practice of reporting targets in full, and the level of performance actually achieved, for the year just ended.
com 89 Directors Remuneration Report continued Overview for the year ended 31 March 2017 Awards are linked to Bonus awards at near maximum levels reflect very strong stretching financial targets underlying financial performance 1 set at the start of the year 20% increase in Group adjusted profit before tax, driven by good performance in both divisions 1 1 SFI operating profit 5%, with 8% profit growth in core business despite North America volume growth remaining challenging.
New Products sales increased 22% to US$105 million 1 BI operating profit 32% driven by strong commercial execution, good demand, robust margins and solid manufacturing performance Cash delivery was outstanding with adjusted free cash flow more than three times higher than the prior year, driven by higher earnings, management of capital expenditure and currency translation.
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2017 audited The table below provides further information on each metric, the targets set at the start of the year and actual performance for the year.
Bonus objective Profitability Growth Cash management Metric Adjusted profit before tax Net sales less cost of raw Operating cash flow materials Definition Adjusted profit before tax, Net sales less costs of raw Adjusted group operating cash exceptional items, amortisation materials used in production flow, based on the average of and net retirement benefit half-year and full-year figures interest Rationale Measures the underlying profit Measures whether management Measures whether the business generated by the business and is growing the business: by is managing its working capital whether management is assessing growth after deducting and converting profit into cash converting growth into profit the cost of raw materials, this effectively effectively metric better reflects the value added by the business Threshold 192m 1 257m 87m Target 206m 1 343m 97m Stretch 216m 1 370m 107m 1 Actual performance 233m 1 397m 114m 1 Bonus targets are set and actual performance is assessed at constant budget exchange rates, reflecting consistent practice with prior years.
Actual performance in the year against each of the three performance metrics has exceeded the corresponding stretch targets.
In determining final bonus awards, the Committee also considers the Groups overall operational and financial performance to ensure the results are consistent with the Groups underlying strength and performance.
Having taken the Groups safety performance into account, the Committee exercised its discretion to reduce the level of bonus payable to executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee.
For the Chief Executive, this reduction was 20% and for the Chief Financial Officer this reduction was 10%.
Accordingly, the Committee has approved awards of 140% of salary for the Chief Executive and 158% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
90 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 1 Targets STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Long-term incentive Performance Share Plan PSP Overview The PSP provides a share-based incentive to closely align executive directors and senior executives interests with the strategy and with the interests of shareholders over the long term.
It is therefore an important component of the overall package.
Maximum award level Since the 2010 AGM, awards to executive directors and other senior executives have been granted at the discretion of the Committee, with flexibility for the Committee to make awards of up to 300% of base salary where necessary to ensure market competitiveness, while taking into account Group performance.
Individual awards made in any year are considered by the Committee on a case-by-case basis.
Performance conditions for awards to 2015 The release of awards depends on the Groups performance during the three-year performance period beginning on 1 April in the year of the award.
For awards made in the years 2010 to 2015 inclusive, the performance conditions comprised two elements, explained in the table below.
These metrics were selected following the review and consultation with shareholders at that time, as they represented key drivers of shareholder value creation for the Group as a whole.
Metric Earnings per share EPS Return on capital employed ROCE Definition Compound annual growth rate CAGR of the Groups Adjusted ROCE on continuing operations achieved at 1, 2 adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations over the end of the three-year performance period the performance period Weighting 50% of the award depends on this metric 50% of the award depends on this metric Vesting EPS performance CAGR Vesting outcome ROCE performance Vesting outcome schedule % of maximum % of maximum 2013, 2014 Below 6% Nil Below 12.6% Nil and 2015 6% 15% 12.6% 15% awards Between 6% and 15% On a straight line Between 12.6% On a straight line between 15% and 100% and 15.6% between 15% and 100% At or above 15% 100% At or above 15.6% 100% 1 The ROCE outcome may be adjusted downward in the event of an asset impairment adding this back into capital employed : this is to encourage a prudent investment strategy.
In these circumstances, the ROCE figure for PSP purposes can be significantly lower than would otherwise be reported.
2 ROCE performance for awards made in 2013, 2014, and 2015 is assessed on the basis of proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, consistent with the basis on which targets were set for these awards prior to their grant.
Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justified by the broader underlying financial performance of the Group.
2014 PSP awards vesting by reference to the period ended 31 March 2017 audited PSP awards made in 2014 were dependent on EPS growth and ROCE targets as described above, with each condition applicable to half of the award.
Performance against these conditions and the vesting outcome is indicated in the table below.
Performance Vesting outcome condition Weighting Performance outcome for this element Combined vesting outcome EPS growth 50% -5.4% nil below threshold Based on the combination of EPS 1 and ROCE performance, 50% of the ROCE 50% 16.0% full vesting PSP awards made in 2014 will vest.
above stretch 1 ROCE performance is shown under proportionate accounting consistent with the basis on which the targets for the 2014 award were established.
The performance period applicable to 2014 awards is 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017.
Over this period, earnings per share did not meet threshold, and accordingly the 50% of the award which relates to that performance metric will lapse.
Over the same period, the business has maintained clear principles in relation to the disciplined use of capital, and ROCE performance of 16.0% under proportionate accounting will result in 50% of the total award being permitted to vest.
In confirming the vesting outcome, the Committee also considered the broader underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period, including the impact of impairments, to ensure that vesting results based on these performance outcomes are consistent with a broader view of the financial health and performance of the business.
com 91 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2016 PSP framework aligns with the long-term Group strategy The performance framework for awards made from 2016 was carefully developed to reflect the strategy and 2020 Ambition.
The metrics detailed below align the PSP with our strategic priorities to deliver long-term value by: Incentivising overall growth in the value of the Group.
Focusing on above-market growth in our higher value SFI business.
Incentivising the maintenance of a strong balance sheet.
With this approach, the Committee remains confident that PSP awards remain appropriately aligned with the strategy and priorities of the business, and our long-term outlook as expressed in the 2020 Ambition.
We consulted with a broad group of our largest shareholders on these proposals, and note that the proposals met with high levels of support during that consultation, and were strongly endorsed by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
See pages 74 and 75 of our 2016 Annual Report for more details.
Performance conditions for awards from 2016 In summary, the metrics and targets for awards made from 2016 are: ROCE performance applies to half of the award, as we continue to believe very strongly in the efficient deployment of Group capital.
The other half of the award is focused on profit growth: to best reflect our business mix and growth priorities, half of this element relates to growth in Group adjusted profit before tax, while half relates to growth in SFI adjusted operating profit excluding SPLENDA Sucralose.
Appropriate threshold and stretch targets for each of these metrics were considered carefully by the Committee taking into account a number of reference points, as indicated below.
Overall, performance at these levels requires both our Speciality Food Ingredients SFI and Bulk Ingredients BI businesses to perform strongly in their respective markets.
SFI should grow modestly ahead of the global market which is expected to grow at c. 4-5%, and the BI business should be managed for steady earnings against a US bulk sweeteners market that is in long-term structural decline see pages 16 and 17 for more details in Marketplace.
Metrics for 2016 Target range Awards Rationale for thresholdweighting metric stretch Rationale for target ranges SFI adjusted Consistent 8% 13% p. a.
Targets above-market SFI growth and significant New Product operating profit with the SFI three-year sales expressed in 2020 Ambition excluding growth-led compound Value generative in the context of global market growth of 4-5% SPLENDA business strategy growth and our historic operating profit growth trend of c. 7% excluding Sucralose 25% and investment SPLENDA Sucralose case Growth rates reflect 2020 Ambition that Group profits from SFI increase to 70% over time Group adjusted Key performance 5% 10% p. a.
Targets are consistent with execution of Group strategy: steady profit before tax metric to drive three-year earnings from BI currently c. 40-50% of profits, redeploying 25% sustainable compound capacity to SFI over time, with profitable SFI growth ahead of the long-term growth market profitable growth Targets are aligned with our long-term plan and the realities of our operating model without growth investment in BI Group adjusted Drives efficient 12% 16% in ROCE targets drive disciplined efficient approach to capital ROCE 50% investment for the final year of allocation value-added the three-year Reflects geographic footprint post exit from European returns from the performance bulk business total business period Incentivises ROCE progression from current levels Financial Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by underpin performance against these targets is justified by the broader underlying financial performance of the Group.
Targets are set and performance is assessed at reported exchange rates.
The Committee reviews the appropriateness of metrics and targets ahead of the grant of awards in any year to ensure they remain sufficiently stretching.
The level of vesting at threshold is limited to 15% of the maximum for executive directors.
92 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Post-vesting holding period and dividend underpin A post-vesting holding period.
Executive directors will be required to hold shares for a two-year period after the end of the three-year performance period i. e. the combination of performance and holding period will be five years in total.
This holding period will sit alongside the existing personal shareholding requirements and claw back malus provisions, and demonstrates a strong long-term alignment with shareholder interests.
A dividend underpin supplements the existing financial performance underpin.
The Committee retains a specific additional discretion to reduce PSP vesting for the performance period, regardless of the level of achievement against the applicable performance conditions, if dividends paid by the Group over the performance period do not conform to the stated dividend policy.
We have made a commitment to a progressive dividend policy, where we aim to grow the dividend over time taking into account the earnings prospects of the business.
This approach recognises the importance of the dividend to investors, and underlines the Groups commitment to the stated dividend policy.
Malus and claw back provisions Awards made under the PSP from 1 April 2013 are subject to malus and claw back provisions for a period following the vesting date and extending to the fifth anniversary following the date of grant.
During this period, the Committee may determine that an award will lapse wholly or in part or may require that a participant shall repay up to 100% of the value of any award that has vested by virtue of performance, in the event of circumstances including the following: material misstatement of financial results: misconduct which justifies, or could justify, summary dismissal of the participant: or if information emerges which would have affected the value of the original award that was granted to a participant, or the level at which the performance conditions were judged to have been satisfied.
As stated last year, the cash value of the healthcare benefit provided to the Chief Executive has increased to reflect the cost of provision of international healthcare benefits since the position was originally established on appointment in 2009 driven by periodic premium renewals and the rates based on age and medical inflation trends over time.
2 In accordance with the Groups expenses policies, non-executive directors receive reimbursement for their reasonable expenses for attending Board meetings.
In instances where those costs are treated by HMRC as taxable benefits, the Group also meets the associated tax cost to the non-executive director through a PAYE settlement agreement with HMRC.
Amounts are minimal and do not show in the table after rounding.
3 Bonus includes the value of deferred shares.
The cash bonus award to Javed Ahmed was 721,000 and the cash bonus award to Nick Hampton was 512,750.
4 This is the PSP Award made in 2014.
PSP awards outcomes are discussed on page 91.
5 This relates to compensatory share awards made in connection with Mr Hamptons employment.
Further details are provided on page 96.
6 Year-on-year changes reflect changes in Committee chairmanship and Senior Independent Director responsibilities see page 13.
Dr Gerry Murphy, Lars Frederiksen, Jeanne Johns and Sybella Stanley joined the Board during the year: Virginia Kamsky stepped down as a Director on 1 July 2015.
Total pension entitlements audited Directors participate in arrangements that are defined contribution in nature.
Contributions made to or in lieu of pension in respect of each director during the year are shown in the single figure table, and are equivalent to 35% of salary for the Chief Executive and 25% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Payments to past directors audited There have been no payments to past directors other than as disclosed in this Report.
No loss-of-office payments have been made during the year.
94 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Share awards made during the year audited % of Type of Number Face value of Performance Performance vesting at Award award Date of grant of shares award conditions period threshold 1 2 Javed Group Bonus Nil cost 25 May 2016 42 742 247 113 None Two years n a Ahmed Plan 31 March option 2016 3 Performance Nil cost 10 August 374 124 2 162 998 25% SFI Three 15% 3 Share Plan option 2016 adjusted financial operating profit years ending excluding 31 March 2019 SPLENDA : 25% Group adjusted profit: 50% adjusted 4 ROCE 1 2 Nick Group Bonus Nil cost 25 May 2016 29 368 169 791 None Two years n a Hampton Plan 31 March option 2016 3 Performance Nil cost 10 August 266 064 1 538 249 25% SFI Three 15% 3 Share Plan option 2016 adjusted financial operating profit years ending excluding 31 March 2019 SPLENDA : 25% Group adjusted profit: 50% adjusted 4 ROCE 1 Deferred shares are granted under the annual bonus plan as described on page 89.
The full value of these awards has been previously disclosed for each Director in the single figure table in last years Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The share allocation is made during the year ending 31 March 2017, and shown in the table above, based on the average share price over the last three months of the preceding financial year, being 578.15 pence per share for the 2016 award.
2 Deferred bonus awards were subject to performance conditions in the year ending 31 March 2016, and remain subject to continued employment.
3 Under the terms of the plan approved by shareholders, the number of shares comprising an award in any year is calculated based on the average share price over the last three months of the preceding financial year, being 578.15 pence per share for the 2016 award.
During the year, the Committee approved awards of 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 300% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer, which is within our approved Remuneration Policy.
4 Performance conditions applicable to Performance Share Plan awards made in 2016 are described on page 92.
Historic awards under all-employee schemes audited The table below sets out the current position of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company that were granted to current and former executive directors in the years prior to the current reporting year.
Savings-related share options are options granted under the HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan.
Options are granted on the same terms to all participating employees, are not subject to performance conditions, and are normally exercisable during the sixmonth period following the end of the relevant threeor five-year savings contract.
The exercise price reflects a 20% discount to market value as permitted under HMRC rules, and is applicable to all participants.
Options Options Options As at As at vested exercised lapsed 31 March 1 April 2016 during year during year during year 2017 Exercise Exercise number number number number number price pence period Javed Ahmed 5 941 5 941 510.00 01 03 20 to Savings-related options 2014 31 08 20 Nick Hampton 3 529 3 529 510.00 01 03 20 to Savings-related options 2014 31 08 20 www.
com 95 Directors Remuneration Report continued Share awards made in prior years audited The table below sets out the current position of share-based awards made to executive directors.
Market Market Awards Awards Awards price on price on As at vested lapsed exercised As at date date 31 March during during during 31 March awards awards 2016 year year year 2017 granted exercised number number number number number pence pence Vesting date Javed Ahmed Share-incentive arrangements on recruitment: 1 Compensatory Award A 419 403 419 403 444.90 01 10 11 2,3 Performance Share Plan : 2013 267 418 29 148 238 270 29 148 817.50 15 06 16 4 2014 305 584 305 584 707.83 After 31 03 17 2015 292 595 292 595 616.04 After 31 03 18 Nick Hampton Share incentive arrangements 5 on recruitment : 2014 Restricted Share Award 96 681 96 681 620.60 738.50 01 09 15 96 680 96 680 96 680 620.60 696.00 01 09 16 2015 Restricted Share Award 121 781 121 781 574.80 After 31 03 17 2,3 Performance Share Plan : 2015 241 251 241 251 616.04 After 31 03 18 1 This award, to compensate Javed Ahmed for certain long-term incentives given up by him as a consequence of leaving his former employer, was not subject to performance conditions.
The shares were available to exercise from 1 October 2011, being the second anniversary of Javed Ahmed joining the Group, and will remain exercisable until 30 September 2017.
Pending delivery, he receives a payment in lieu of dividend on these shares which is subject to the deduction of tax.
In the event of a change in control, the shares would be delivered immediately.
2 The three-year performance period for these awards began on the first day of the financial year in which the award was granted.
3 The performance conditions for PSP awards made in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are 50% adjusted diluted EPS and 50% adjusted ROCE, as described in this Report.
4 The PSP award made in 2014 will vest at 50%, following the Committees assessment of performance conditions as described on page 91.
5 These awards were made in connection with Nick Hamptons employment, to compensate him for incentives forfeited with his previous employer, as described in the 2014 and 2015 Directors Remuneration Reports which were subject to advisory shareholder votes at the 2014 and 2015 AGMs : 2014 Restricted Share Award RSA : As described on pages 71 and 76 of the 2015 Annual Report, the 2014 RSA may vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversary of appointment, subject to employment and specified performance conditions.
The Committee approved the vesting of the first tranche of the award on 1 September 2015, as described on page 78 of the 2016 Annual Report.
The Committee approved the vesting of the second tranche of the award, in full, on 1 September 2016, being the second anniversary of appointment, taking into account Nick Hamptons specific strategic and operational contributions to the business, including: Establishing a Business Performance Management function and leading global procurement initiatives to deliver material financial benefits reflected in Group financial performance through FY16, in the context of very significant commodities weakness adverse 29m, as reported with our financial results for the period ending 31 March 2016, as well as demonstrable improvements in working capital and cash flow performance over the same period.
Leadership of a robust long-term financial planning exercise linked to our stated 2020 Ambition and associated Capital Markets event in January 2016.
Implementation of a revised approach to better link the longer-term commercial and capital expenditure plans through to annual operating planning objectives and execution plans.
These processes are underpinned by strengthened sales forecasting and operational supply chain and demand planning processes to enable the business to deliver more stable financial performance compared with when Nick joined the business, and to enable the Group to better respond to market challenges and unforeseen risks during the year.
Strong overall stewardship of the major change projects executed during FY16 Eaststarch business realignment and consolidation of Sucralose manufacturing, with the final outcomes delivered to the planned time-horizons and with exceptional cash costs lower than planned.
Leading the improvements in our communications with the market, including the development of the enhanced disclosure framework, a refreshed equity story and clear articulation of the 2020 Ambition with our half-year results in November 2015, and the Capital Markets event in January 2016, that received positive investor feedback.
2015 Restricted Share Award RSA : as described on page 71 of the 2015 Annual Report, this award was made to compensate Mr Hampton for incentives forfeited with his previous employer and will vest, based on continued employment and satisfactory personal performance, following the announcement of results for the year ending 31 March 2017.
96 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Personal share ownership requirements policy on executive share ownership The Committee and executive management believe that personal investment in Company shares is an important part of our overall remuneration framework.
Material personal investment in Company shares serves to strengthen the long-term alignment of interests between senior executives and shareholders.
Our executive shareholding requirements are more demanding and extend to a greater number of senior executives in the Group when compared with similar UK-listed companies.
The Chief Executive has a target share ownership requirement of four times base salary.
At 31 March 2017, he holds shares in accordance with this policy with a value in excess of 30 times base salary.
The Chief Financial Officer has a target shareholding of three times base salary, to be achieved within five years of appointment.
Nick Hampton joined the Group in September 2014, and therefore has until September 2019 to meet this target.
At 31 March 2017, he holds shares in accordance with the policy with a value of just under two times base salary.
Other Executive Committee members are subject to the share ownership policy, with target holdings at three times salary.
This policy extends to a broader group of executives who have senior leadership roles within the Group.
The shareholding target for this group is equal to their base salary.
Under the shareholding policy, the value of shareholdings is assessed net of tax, at the prevailing share price, and executives are expected to reach the required level of shareholding within five years of appointment.
The Committee monitors progress against the share ownership requirements annually.
Directors interests audited The interests held by each person who was a Director during the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All these interests are beneficially held and no Director had interests in any other class of shares.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share plans.
2 Includes awards under the PSP.
These awards were made as options with a nil exercise price.
3 Includes vested but unexercised awards granted to Javed Ahmed and Nick Hampton, and unvested awards made to Nick Hampton in connection with his appointment.
4 These are HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan awards.
There were no changes in Directors interests in the period from 1 April 2017 to 24 May 2017.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the close of business on 31 March 2017 was 764.50 pence, and the range during the year ended 31 March 2017 was 574.50 pence to 807.00 pence.
On behalf of the Board Anne Minto OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2017 www.
