Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Direc tors remuneration report Our remuneration framework ensures alignment with shareholders interests and rewards the achievement of our strategic objectives.
end of its 8% to 10% target range.
Weighted annualised TSR Statement by the Remuneration on our investment in 3iN, including the rights issue, was 16% Committee Chairman forthe year.
As Remuneration Committee Chairman, I am pleased to introduce the Directors remuneration report for the financial Investment year 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 the year and to provide Investment levels within our Private Equity business increased some details of the background against which the Committees through the year, while still maintaining a disciplined and decisions have been taken in the year.
References to FY2018 selective approach to new investments, resulting in 409million relate to the financial year 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018. being deployed through three new investments in Schlemmer, This years report contains two sections, being the annual report BoConcept and Ponroy Sant, as well as a further 62 million on remuneration and a new proposed Directors remuneration investment in Q Holding.
The Infrastructure business advised policy which will be presented for approval at the 2017 AGM.
3iN on the acquisition of 479 million of investments.
They also announced a 700 million fund for both 3i Group and third parties to purchase assets from the Eiser Global Infrastructure Performance in the year Fund.
The Committee set a business as usual target for new I am pleased to report that this has been another successful fund launches in the Debt Management CLO business at the year for the Company with management delivering strong beginning of the year but this was removed in the light of the results across the board which are reected in the Committees Boards decision to sell the business.
decisions concerning the Executive Directors remuneration.
These decisions are underpinned by a balanced scorecard Operating profit of both financial and strategic measures agreed by the Annual operating cash profits remained positive at 33 million Committee in May 2016.
While the facts driving our assessment in FY2017 2016: 37 million despite a reduction of 9 million, of performance against that balanced scorecard are available resulting from the timing of the sale of the Debt Management elsewhere in this Annual report, we have summarised them here business, reecting the budgeted cash income from that area for ease of reference.
in the second half of the year.
Operating cash profits were In addition to driving the excellent performance recorded supported by the performance of the Debt Management in Private Equity and Infrastructure in FY2017, the team also business in the first half, combined with strong fee and executed the successful sale of the Debt Management business dividend income from the Infrastructure business and good to Investcorp half way through the year in accordance with the dividend and interest income from the Private Equity portfolio.
As noted below, the Committee adjusted the Operating expenses, including Debt Management, decreased threshold and target metrics for operating cash profit by 3% from 134 million in FY2016 to 130 million in FY2017.
and Investment to take account of the timing of this sale.
Strategy and people Portfolio return The principal strategic achievement of the year was the Exceptional performance of the Private Equity portfolio, as well successful disposal of the Debt Management business, as very strong returns from the Infrastructure portfolio, generated which was accomplished at a good price in a controlled and a gross investment return of 1,755 million 2016: 1,051 million disciplined process by the in-house team without the need for or 40% of opening portfolio value.
This was an outstanding an external adviser.
Meanwhile, we continued to strengthen performance against target and industry benchmarks.
This year, our investment capabilities through new hires and talent 93% of our portfolio companies by value grew their earnings in management in both remaining businesses.
FY2017, while 3iNs investment return of 9.4% was at the upper 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 77 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued The proposed Remuneration policy Changes in the year and FY2018 implementation During the year, the Committee considered the structure of the Executive Directors remuneration and concluded that The current Remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 the existing relatively low level of base salary, coupled with AGM, which means that the Company is required to submit its asubstantial variable element, is one that allows the Committee policy for the next binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
Over the three more exibility to align annual remuneration to the Companys years in which the existing policy has operated, management performance in this highly competitive sector.
Neither of the have delivered exceptional returns for shareholders.
In absolute Executive Directors is entitled to participate in the Groups terms, management have delivered total shareholder returns carried interest schemes.
to 31 March 2017 of just under 104%, corresponding to 26.8% compound per annum.
In relative terms, this performance puts During FY2017, 3i has worked to ensure that it continues to 3i in the 94th percentile of the FTSE 250 and the 97thpercentile comply with changes in regulation.
The Group must comply with ofthe FTSE 100. the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, which requires the Company to deliver variable remuneration to Over the same period, the bonus opportunity for the Executive certain staff in a particular form.
The two Executive Directors are Directors has remained capped, growing by 3% per annum.
considered to be AIFMD Identied Staff, and as such, 60% of their Across the annual bonus and LTIP, 80% of awards have been annual bonuses will be delivered in deferred 3i Group plc shares delivered in the form of deferred shares and the appreciation which vest in equal instalments over four years.
The remaining ofthese shares prior to vesting has been a significant component 40% will be delivered half in cash bonus and half in 3i Group plc in total remuneration for the Executive Directors at noadditional shares which are subject to a six-month retention period.
cost to the Company see chart.
The Committee reviewed the level of disclosure it makes through The Remuneration Committee believes that total shareholder the annual performance metrics and the impact on remuneration.
return TSR continues to be an appropriate metric for The FY2017 scorecard, which the Committee uses as a prompt measuring longer-term performance in an investment business and guide to judgement of performance, has been improved such as 3i.
The Committee has reviewed the suitability of the with half of the scorecard being linked to quantitative measures vesting prole of the absolute TSR metric in light of the economic Portfolio returns and Operating performance.
As shown environment and the need to ensure that Executives do not take on page 80, these metrics have been set with threshold and excessive risk.
We have concluded that the 10% to 18% range maximum levels.
remains a demanding test of medium-term performance.
The Committee remains committed to maintaining a remuneration The Remuneration Committee believes that the existing policy framework which rewards progress in meeting theGroups has been demonstrably effective in aligning Executive Directors strategic objectives.
We will also continue to monitor and comply interests with those of shareholders and therefore no material with relevant guidelines and regulatory changes.
changes to the existing policy are proposed at this time.
The overall remuneration framework and incentive levels will Jonathan Asquith remain the same.
However, taking into account feedback from Chairman, Remuneration Committee our investors and current best market practice, the shareholder 17 May 2017 requirement for the Group Finance Director has been increased to 200% of base salary.
Chief Executives single gure remuneration FY2017 628 457 1,827 2,200 2,433 FY2016 610 432 1,727 2,156 896 FY2015 593 1,047 1,047 2,324 3,267 Fixed remuneration Cash Bonus Deferred Share Award Value of LTIP vesting at grant price Additional LTIP value due to share price growth and dividends 78 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation The Annual report of remuneration Implementation report During FY2017, we continued to operate under the remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM, which can be found on our website at www.
Director remuneration for the year Single total gure of remuneration for each Director FY2017 FY2016 Salary Annual Salary Annual 000 fees Benets Pension Bonus LTIP Total fees Benets Pension Bonus LTIP Total S A Borrows 597 14 16 2,284 4,633 7,544 579 15 16 2,159 3,052 5,821 J S Wilson 434 17 46 1,011 2,106 3,614 421 18 44 902 1,387 2,772 S Thompson 295 295 239 239 Sir Adrian Montague 70 70 J P Asquith 131 131 122 122 C J Banszky 108 108 103 103 A R Cox 50 50 S W Daintith 42 42 P Grosch 250 250 69 69 D A M Hutchison 99 99 91 91 M G Verluyten 87 87 74 74 Benets include a car allowance, provision of health insurance and, for Mrs Wilson, the value of the Share Incentive Plan matching share awards.
Mr Borrows and Mrs Wilson received salary supplements in lieu of pension contributions of 16k and 46k respectively.
These supplements were in line with pension contributions for the Groups employees generally.
Annual bonus awards made in respect of the year are delivered as 60% payable in 3i Group plc shares deferred for four years, and the remaining 40% being half as a cash payment immediately and half as 3i Group plc shares which are subject to a six-month retention period.
All annual bonus awards are subject to the malus clawback policy.
Those shares deferred for four years are released in four equal annual instalments over the four years commencing June 2018 and all share awards carry the right to receive dividends and other distributions.
In the case of Ms Banszky, the sum shown for FY2017 includes an amount of 69k including VAT paid to her then principal employer, the Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. which released her to serve as a non-executive Director FY2016: 103k.
In the case of Mr P Grosch, the sum shown includes 200k of fees paid to him by Euro-Diesel a 3i portfolio company for his role as Chairman.
In addition to the table above, dividends or dividend equivalents on unvested deferred share awards were paid during the year MrBorrows 120k, Mrs Wilson 49k.
The values shown in the LTIP represent the performance shares vesting from the 2014 LTIP, together with the value of accrued dividends on those shares.
The shares have been valued using the 31 March 2017 closing share price 749.5 pence.
Further detail isprovided on page 81.
The fees shown for the non-executive Directors include fees used to purchase shares in the Company.
In addition to the fees shown above, Mr Borrows retained directors fees of 75k from The British Land Company PLC, and MrsWilsonretained directors fees of 105k from Legal and General Group plc.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 79 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued FY2017 performance Formulaic performance measures 50% of total Area of strategic focus Weighting Metric Threshold Maximum Performance Payout Portfolio returns 40% Gross investment return 10% 20% 36% 100% % of opening portfolio value 35% ex.
DM 1 Operating performance 10% Operating cash profit 5m 31m 33m 100% 1 In FY2017, the Group completed the successful sale of the Debt Management business.
This results in the loss of the Debt Managements fee income and portfolio income contributions in the second half of the year.
As a result, the amount of operating cash profit required for maximum award has been reduced by 9 million to 31 million to reect the sale of the Debt Management business.
Qualitative performance measures 50% of total Area of strategic focus Weighting Metric Target Expectation Performance Comments Portfolio returns 10% Private Equity portfolio T 10% 23% Very strong realisations and operational earnings growth performance from the underlying PE portfolio driven bygrowth in Actionand other key assets.
3iN total return T 10% 9.4% 3iNs investment return at the upper end of its 8%10% target.
Investment 30% New capital invested in E500m to 583m Higher investment levels in Private Equity Private Equity 750m thanFY2016 365million while still retaining adisciplined and selective approach tonewinvestments.
New 3iN capital committed E n a 479m A strong level of new 3iN investment in Core PPP commitments in FY2017 exceeding expectations FY2016: 193million.
Debt Management E n a n a N a as business line sold.
Strategy and 10% Achievement of strategy and people targets is measured Successful sale of the DM business, creating people against a balanced scorecard of objectives set by the ahigher return proprietary capital platform Remuneration Committee focused on the complementary Private Equity andInfrastructure businesses.
Consistent positive feedback from shareholders who continue to be supportive of the Groups performance and strategy.
Continued development of the Infrastructure business to deepen team capability and broaden the platform with announcement of expansion into North America.
Development, retention and succession plans forthe Groups key talent and leadership team inplace and progressing according to plan.
Two-year extension to November 2018 obtained forEurofund V. T Target E Expectation These expectations are not disclosed as they are commercially sensitive.
Consistent with last year, the Board set expectations rather than targets for some metrics.
This is because the timing of acquisitions and disposals is highly sensitive to market conditions, and a more prescriptive approach would run the risk of creating perverse incentives for executives.
For example, to achieve a target level of realisations may result in the earlier sale of assets than would otherwise be appropriate, or to achieve a target level of investments may result in investing at inated prices.
Adjusting for the timing of the sale of the Debt Management business, the expectations the Board set for realisations and investment were met or exceeded in each case.
In light of the achievements detailed above, and the exceptional performance of the Group in the year, the Committee awarded MrBorrows a bonus in respect of FY2017 of 2,283,800 being 95% of his maximum bonus opportunity, and awarded Mrs Wilson abonus in respect of FY2017 of 1,010,770 being 92.5% of her maximum bonus opportunity.
In each case, 20% of the award will be paid in cash immediately, 20% will be delivered as shares with a retention period of six months and the remaining 60% will be deferred into the Companys shares vesting in equal instalments over four years.
Annual bonus awards are subject to the malus clawback policy.
The differential between the Executive Directors bonus percentages reects the wider contribution of Mr Borrows to strategic and investment outcomes.
80 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Share awards vesting in 2017 subject to performance conditions 2014 Long-term incentive award The long-term incentive awards granted in June 2014 to Mr Borrows and Mrs Wilson were subject to performance conditions based on absolute and relative Total Shareholder Return over the three financial years to 31 March 2017.
The table below shows the achievement against these conditions and the resulting proportion of the awards which will vest in June 2017.
Weighting Threshold Maximum Actual Total Shareholder Return Measure % Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Performance % vesting Absolute Total Shareholder Return 50% 10% p. a.
100% 26.8% 100% Relative Total Shareholder Return Upper Above as measured against the FTSE 250 Index 50% Median 25% quartile 100% upper quartile 100% The table below shows the grants made to each Executive Director on 30 June 2014 at a share price of 387.7 pence and the resulting number of shares that will vest due to the achievement against the performance targets as set out above.
The value of the shares vesting has been included in the single gure table using the 31 March 2017 closing share price of 749.5p.
Number ofshares Value of share awarded vesting at Face value at387.7p Number of 749.5p per Basis of award at grant atgrant pershare % vesting shares vesting share S A Borrows Face value award of 4 times base salary of 550k 2,200k 567,449 100% 567,449 4,253k J S Wilson Face value award of 2.5 times base salary of 400k 1,000k 257,931 100% 257,931 1,933k The proportion of the award vesting will be released 50% in June 2017, 25% in June 2018 and 25% in June 2019 together with the value of dividends that would have been received during the period from grant to the release date.
Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive compared to other employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded to the Chief Executive and employees as a whole, between the year to 31 March 2016 and the year to 31 March 2017.
Salary Benets Bonus Chief Executive 3% 0% 6% All other employees 6% 0% 10% 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 81 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued Details of share awards granted in the year LTIP Performance share awards were granted to the two Executive Directors during the year as shown in the table below.
Description of award A performance share-based award, which releases shares, subject to satisfying the performance conditions, 50%onthethird anniversary of grant and 25% on the fourth and fifth anniversaries.
Face value Chief Executive 400% of salary, being 451,708 shares.
Group Finance Director 250% of salary, being 205,322 shares.
The share price used to make the award was the average mid-market closing price over the five working daysstartingwith the day of the announcement of the 2016 annual results 516.7p.
Performance period 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019.
Performance targets 50% of the award is based on absolute TSR measured over the performance period, and vests: 0% vesting below 10% p. a. TSR: 20% vesting at 10% p. a. TSR: Straight-line vesting between 10% and 18% p. a. TSR: and 100% vesting at 18% p. a. TSR.
50% of the award is based on relative TSR measured against the FTSE 350 Index over the performance period, andvests: 0% vesting for below median performance against the index: 25% vesting for median performance against the index: 100% vesting for upper quartile performance against the index: and Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile performance.
Remuneration Committee The Committee can reduce any award which would otherwise vest if gross debt or gearing targets aremissed.
discretion Deferred bonuses awarded in FY2017 The two Executive Directors are considered to be AIFMD Identied Staff and, as such, 60% of their annual bonuses will be delivered in 3i Group plc shares deferred for four years and which vest one quarter per annum over those four years.
The remaining 40% will be delivered half as a cash bonus and half in 3i Group plc shares which are subject to a six-month retention period.
The following awards were made on 4 June 2016 in respect of FY2016 performance: 20% of FY2016 delivered as shares 60% of FY2016 bonus deferred for four years subject to a six-month retention period Number ofshares Number ofshares awarded at awarded at Face value atgrant 516.7ppershare Vesting Face value atgrant 516.7ppershare Released S A Borrows 1,296,359 250,698 Four equal 431,786 83,566 At the expiry instalments of the six-month J S Wilson 541,059 104,714 180,353 34,904 annually from retention period 1June 2017 These face values were reported in the FY2016 single gure of remuneration for each Director.
The share price used to calculate face value was the average of the mid-market closing prices over the five working days starting with the date of the announcement of the Companys results for the year ended 31 March 2016 14 May 2016 to 20 May 2016, which was 516.7 pence.
These awards are notsubject to further performance conditions.
82 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Share Incentive Plan During the year Mrs Wilson participated in the HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan which allowed employees to invest up to 150 per month from pre-tax salary in ordinary shares partnership shares.
For each partnership share, the Company grants two free ordinary shares matching shares which are normally forfeited if employment ceases within three years of grant.
Dividends are reinvested in further ordinary shares dividend shares.
During the year Mrs Wilson purchased 292 partnership shares, and received 584 matching shares and 564 dividend shares at prices ranging between 4.83 and 7.26 per share, with an average price of 6.28.
Pension arrangements Mr Borrows and Mrs Wilson receive pension benets on the same basis as other employees of the Company.
During the year they received salary supplements in lieu of pension of 16k and 46k respectively.
Payments to past Directors Mr Queen, who resigned as Chief Executive on 16 May 2012, retained interests in arrangements relating to his previous roles as Managing Partner, Infrastructure and Managing Partner, Growth Capital.
During the year he received payments under those arrangements totalling 186k together with a return of a capital commitment of 89k.
It is anticipated that he will receive a further payments during 2017 of 335k and 106k from these arrangements.
Payments for loss of ofce No payments to Directors for loss of ofce have been made in the year.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Companys share ownership and retention policy requires Executive Directors to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, ashareholding in the Companys shares equivalent to at least 3.0 times gross salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 2.0 times gross salary for the Group Finance Director.
In addition, shareholding targets have been introduced for other members of Executive Committee at the 1.5 times their gross salary levels and for partners in the Groups businesses at 1.0 times their gross salaries.
Details of Directors interests including interest of their connected persons in the Companys shares as at 31 March 2017 are shown below.
The share price on 31 March 2017 was 7.495.
Current Owned Deferred Subject to Shareholding shareholding 1 2 outright shares performance requirement % salary 3 S A Borrows 11,777,499 1,622,556 870,476 300% 14,688% 3 J S Wilson 432,554 721,134 395,671 200% 742% Shares owned outright 3 S Thompson 45,457 3 J P Asquith 43,001 3 C Banszky 9,995 3 S Daintith 1,241 3 P Grosch 4,249 3 D Hutchison 59,966 3 M G Verluyten 24,000 1 The share interests shown for Mrs Wilson include shares held in the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
The owned outright column includes partnership and dividend shares under the SIP.
The deferred shares column includes matching shares under the SIP.
2 The number of shares shown includes the 2014 Performance Share award.
The performance target has been met with 100% of the shares being released as described on page 81.
3 Directors are restricted from hedging their exposure to the 3i share price.
4 From 1 April 2017 to 1 May 2017, Mrs Wilson became interested in a further 19 shares overall outright SIP Partnership Shares and a further 38 deferred shares SIP Matching Shares.
There were no other changes to Directors share interests in that period.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 83 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued Performance graph and table TSR Graph This graph compares the Companys total shareholder return for the eight financial years to 31 March 2017 with the total shareholder return of the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index is considered to be an appropriate comparator as it is representative of the underlying companies in which the Company invests.
Mr Borrows was appointed Chief Executive on 17 May 2012 having previously been Chief Investment officer.
Relative importance of spend on pay Change 2016 17 2015 16 % Remuneration of all employees 88m 83m 6% Dividends paid to shareholders 230m 190m 21% 84 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy in the coming year As explained in the statement by the Committee Chairman, we are seeking approval for a new remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
The table below sets out how the Committee intends to operate the remuneration policy in FY2018, on the basis that it is approved byshareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Policy element Implementation of policy during FY2018 Base salary A Group-wide 3% increase to salaries will take place in FY2018, which will also be applied to Executive Director salaries.
Effective from 1 July 2017, salaries for the Executive Directors will therefore be as follows: Chief Executive: 619,030 3% Group Finance Director: 450,203 3% Pension No changes to the current arrangements are proposed for FY2018.
The Executive Directors will continue to receive apension contribution or salary supplement as follows: Chief Executive: 16k Group Finance Director: 12% of salary Benets No changes to the current arrangements are proposed for FY2018.
Benets will continue to include a car allowance, provision of health insurance and any Share Incentive Plan matching share awards.
Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunities for FY2018 will remain unchanged, in line with the remuneration policy, asfollows: Chief Executive: 400% of salary Group Finance Director: 250% of salary Any bonus will be awarded based on a balanced scorecard of both financial and strategic measures agreed by theCommittee, alongside a consideration of the wider context of personal performance including values and behaviours, risk, market and other factors.
Measures for the FY2018 scorecard are based 90% on financial measures 50% portfolio return, 30% investment management and 10% operating performance and 10% on strategic and people objectives.
They are calibrated tocurrent business strategy and will evolve year-on-year as the Groups situation and priorities develop.
The Committee considers that the specic targets and expectations contained within the FY2018 scorecard are commercially sensitive and therefore will not be disclosed in advance.
We will report to shareholders next year onperformance and the resulting bonus outturns.
At least 50% of any bonus award will be deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over four years.
Awards are subject to the Companys malus and clawback policy.
Long-term incentive plan Awards under the long-term incentive plan in FY2018 will remain unchanged and be made as follows: Chief Executive: 400% of salary Group Finance Director: 250% of salary Performance will be measured over a three-year period and will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Performance measures remained unchanged from the previous year and will be as follows: 50% of the award is based on absolute TSR measured over the performance period, and vests: 0% vesting below 10% p. a. TSR: 20% vesting at 10% p. a. TSR: Straight-line vesting between 10% and 18% p. a. TSR: and 100% vesting at 18% p. a. TSR.
50% of the award is based on relative TSR measured against the FTSE 350 Index over the performance period, andvests: 0% for below median performance against the index: 25% for median performance against the index: 100% for upper quartile performance against the index: and Straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile performance.
Shareholding requirements Shareholding requirements will be as follows: Chief Executive: 300% of salary Group Finance Director: 200% of salary 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 85 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued Policy element Implementation of policy during FY2018 Non-executive Director fees The fees for the Non-executive Directors for FY2018 will be: Chairman fee: 280,000 plus 30,000 in 3i shares Non-executive Directors: Board membership fee: 50,000 plus 3,000 3i shares Deputy Chairman including SID fee 40,000 Senior independent director fee: 10,000 Committee chairman: 20,000 Committee member: 8,000 Committee fees are payable in respect of the Audit and Compliance Committee, Remuneration Committee and Valuations Committee.
Malus and Clawback policy Long-term incentive awards and deferred bonus share awards made during the year to Executive Directors andcertain other Senior Executives, may be forfeited or reduced prior to vesting in exceptional circumstances onsuch basis as the Committee considers fair, reasonable and proportionate.
This would include, but is not limited to, material misstatement of Group financial statements, or cases where an individual is deemed to have caused amaterial loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
The Group may recover amounts that have been paid or released from awards including cash bonus awards, as longas a written request for the recovery of such sums is made in the two-year period from the date of payment or release and in circumstances where either a there has been a material misstatement of Group financial statements or b the Group suffers a material loss, and in either case the Committee considers that there is reasonable evidence to show that the misstatement or loss has been caused by the individuals reckless, negligent orwilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviours.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee during the year: Remuneration Committee Meetings attended Meetings eligible to Name Role Membership status intheyear attend in theyear J P Asquith Chairman Non-executive Director Member since March 2011 77 Chairman since May 2011 C J Banszky Non-executive Director Member since November 2015 7 7 D A M Hutchison Non-executive Director Member since December 2013 7 7 The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP as advisers in 2013 and during the year they provided the Committee with external, independent advice.
Deloitte are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided 3i with certain tax advisory services.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided during the year and is satisfied that it has been objective and independent.
The total fees for advice during the year were 44,350 excluding VAT.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive, the Remuneration Director and the General Counsel, Company Secretary & Head ofHRattend Committee meetings by invitation, other than when their personal remuneration is being discussed.
86 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Result of voting at the 2016 AGM At the 2016 AGM shareholders approved the Remuneration report that was published in the 2016 Annual report and accounts.
At the2014 AGM, shareholders approved the Directors remuneration policy.
The results for both of these votes are shown below: Resolution Votes for Votes against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of the Directors remuneration report at the 2016 AGM 680,338,260 41,956,098 722,294,358 7,275,252 94.19% 5.81% Approval of the Directors remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM 701,059,781 13,563,200 714,622,981 1,798,709 98.10% 1.90% Audit The tables in this report including the Notes thereto on pages 79 to 84 have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 87 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued Policy report Remuneration policy table The table below summarises the policy in respect of each element of the Companys remuneration for Executive and non-executive Directors effective from the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
This policy will be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
This policy remains materially unchanged from the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
While the Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Remuneration policy annually to ensure it continues to align with the business strategy, there is no current intention to revise the policy more oftenthan every three years, unless required to through changes toregulations or legislation.
Executive Directors Purpose and link Performance to strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Base salary To provide a xed Salaries are normally reviewed annually Whilst there is no maximum salary level, None, although the element of pay at by the Committee, with any changes increases are generally considered in Committee considers alevelthat aids the usually becoming effective from 1 July.
the context of those awarded to other when setting salary recruitment, retention employees and the wider market.
levels the breadth These are reviewed by taking into and motivation of high and responsibilities account a number of factors, including: Higher increases may be awarded in performing people.
For example, performance of the Company and as thecompetence To reect their this may include a change individual: andexperience role, experience in size, scope or responsibility of role, or wider market and economic oftheindividual.
and importance development within the role or a specic conditions: tothebusiness.
any changes in responsibilities: and The annual base salary for each Executive the level of increases made across Director is set out in the Annual report on theCompany.
Pension To provide contributions Participation in the dened contribution Executive Directors receive a pension N A to Executive Directors pension scheme 3iRetirement Plan or contribution or cash allowance of toenable them to cash equivalent.
makelong-term Prior to 2011 Executive Directors were For those Executive Directors who were savingsto provide posteligible for membership of the members of the 3i Group Pension Plan, retirement income.
3i Group Pension Plan, a dened benefit their deferred pension will change to Pension contributions contributory scheme.
Pension accrual reect the deferred pension available are provided to both ceased for all members with effect from onleaving, payable from age 60. support retention and 5April 2011, although alink to final salary Details for the current Executive recruit people of the is maintained forexisting accrual up to Directors are set out in the Annual necessary calibre.
reportof remuneration for the year.
Benets To provide market Executive Directors are entitled to Whilst there is no maximum level N A competitive benets acombination of benets, including ofbenets, they are generally set at atthe level needed to anon-pensionable car allowance, private an appropriate market competitive attract and retain high medical insurance, an annualhealth level, taking into account a number of performing people.
factors including market practice for comparable roles within appropriate To provide health The Remuneration Committee may paycomparators.
benets to support remove benets that Executive Directors thewell being receive or introduce other benets if it is The Remuneration Committee may ofemployees.
review the benets for an existing or newExecutive Director at any point.
88 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Purpose and link Performance to strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Annual bonus To incentivise the Bonus awards are considered annually Maximum bonus of 400% of salary Performance is assessed achievement of the based on performance intherelevant fortheChief Executive.
against a balanced Groups strategic financial year.
scorecard which aligns Maximum bonus of 250% of salary objectives on an with the strategic All performance targets are reviewedand fortheGroup Finance Director.
set by the Committee early in theyear.
Deferral into shares The targets can be arange Awards are determined by the reinforces retention of financial, business line Committee after the year based andenhances alignment specic, personal, risk and uponthe actual performance with shareholders other key Group targets.
byencouraging The Committee uses the No more than 50% of any bonus award longer-termfocus scorecard as a prompt ispaid as cash.
and guide to judgement At least 50% of any bonus award will be and considers the deferred into shares vesting in equal performance outcomes instalments over four years.
in the wider context of Deferred bonus awards may be granted personal performance in the form of conditional share awards, including values and options or forfeitable shares.
Awards behaviours, risk, market mayalso be settled incash.
Participants receive the value of Details of the annual dividends in cash on the shares performance targets whicharesubject to the award.
andperformance against targets are shown Awards are subject tothe malus within the Annualreport clawback policy as set out in the ofremuneration.
Long-term Incentive Plan Alignment of reward with All performance targets, along with Awards granted in respect of a financial The scorecard used long-term, sustainable relative weightings, are reviewed year will have a face value ofup to 400% tomeasure the Company performance andsetby the Committee prior of salary for the ChiefExecutive.
performance links at least and thecreation of toawards being made.
half of the award tototal Awards granted in respect of anancial shareholder value shareholder returns and The Committee may make an award year will have a face valueofup to 250% overthe longer-term.
the balance, if any, to inthe form of forfeitable shares, of salary for theGroup FinanceDirector.
strategic objectives set The combination of conditional share awards, stock Normally, no payment will be made bytheBoard.
total shareholder return appreciation rights, or options under forbelow threshold performance.
Awards may be settled in cash.
The achievement Between 20% and 25% of the awardvests performance measures againstthese targets Award levels are determined by at threshold performance, depending balance internaland ismeasured over reference to individual performance upon .
external perspectives athree-year period priorto grant.
of performance, and andisdetermined Awards vest subject to the Groups alignparticipants with bytheCommittee.
achievements against the performance shareholders interests.
The Committee can targets over a xedthree-year period.
reduce any award which To the extent that shares vest, they would otherwise vest are released 50% on or around but ifgross debt or gearing not earlier than the third anniversary targets are missed.
of grant, and 25% on or around Details of the current butnotearlier than the fourth performance conditions andfthanniversaries of grant.
are shown within The Committee may determine that theAnnual report participants may receive the value ofremuneration.
ofdividends in cash or shares which would have been paid on the shares thatvest under awards.
Performance share awards are subject tothe malus clawback policy as set out on the next page.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 89 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued Purpose and link Performance to strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Shareholding requirements To create alignment Executive Directors are required to build The shareholding targets for the N A withshareholders up over a reasonable period oftime, Executive Directors are: by encouraging and thereafter maintain, ashareholding Chief Executive 3.0 times salary longer-termfocus.
Vested shares Group Finance Director 2.0 times netofincometax and National Insurance salary contributions under the Deferred Bonus Executive Committee members have Plan and Long-term Incentive Plan atarget of 1.5 times salary and selected should be retained until the shareholding partners 1.0 times salary.
In addition, shareholding targets existforother members of the Executive Committee and for staff designated as partners in the Groups businesses.
The Committee retains the abilitytointroduce additional retentionconditions.
Notes to the Remuneration policy table Performance conditions The Committee selected the performance conditions used for determining the annual bonus and LTIP awards as they align directly with the short and long-term strategy of the business.
These conditions are set annually by the Committee at levels that take into account the Boards business plan.
Changes to the policy operated in FY2017 There have been no major changes to the remuneration policy from that which was applied during the year, other than an increase inthe shareholding requirement of the Finance Director from 150% to 200% of base salary.
Consistency with policy for all employees All employees are eligible to receive salary, pension contributions andbenets and to be considered for a discretionary annual bonus, withthe maximum opportunities reecting the role and seniority of eachemployee.
Other members of the Executive Committee are subject tothesame bonus deferral arrangements as the Executive Directors.
Higher-earning members of staff below Executive Committee have aportion of their bonus deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over a three-year period.
Within each of the Groups businesses, senior members of staff have asignicant part of their compensation linked to the long-term performance of the Groups and its clients investments through carriedinterest schemes or similar arrangements.
Co-investment and carried interest plans Executive Directors, other than the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, arepermitted to participate in carried interest plans and similar arrangements.
This was approved by shareholders on 4 July 2001 and6 July 2011 when approving the Groups Long-term Incentive Plan.
No current Executive Director benets from these arrangements.
Malus Clawback policy The Committee has agreed a policy, which applies to long-term incentive awards and deferred bonus share awards made during the year to Executive Directors and certain other Senior Executives, under which awards may be forfeited or reduced prior to vesting in exceptional circumstances on such basis as the Committee considers fair, reasonable and proportionate.
This would include, but is not limited to, material misstatement of Group financial statements, or cases where an individual is deemed tohave caused a material loss forthe Group as a result of reckless, negligent orwilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
The Group may recover amounts that have been paid or released from awards including cash bonus awards, as long as a written request for the recovery of such sums is made in the two-year period from the date of payment or release and in circumstances where either a there has been a material misstatement of Group financial statements or b the Group suffers a material loss, and in either case the Committee considers that there is reasonable evidence to show that the misstatement or loss has been caused by the individuals reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviours.
The Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do nothave a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation orimplementation without seeking shareholder approval for arevisedversion of this Policy report.
90 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Non-executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity To attract and retain Non-executive Directors receive a basic annual fee.
Fees are set at a level which is considered appropriate high performing to attract and retain the calibre ofindividual required The fee is delivered in a mix of cash and shares.
non-executive Directors by the Company but the Company avoids paying more The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by of the calibre required.
Additional fees are paid for the following Fees are benchmarked against other companies roles duties: ofcomparable size and against listed financial Senior Independent Director servicescompanies.
Committee Chairman The Board is responsible for determining all other non-executive Director fees, which are reviewed Committee membership annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
Committee fees are payable in respect of the Audit andCompliance Committee, Remuneration Committee and Valuations Committee.
Recruitment policy In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, includingthe calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, local market practice, the individuals current remuneration package, 3iremuneration policy, internal relativities and existing arrangementsfor otherExecutive Directors.
Forexternal appointments, some variation may be necessary in order toattract the successful candidate and to reect particular skills or experience specically required.
The maximum level of variable pay as expressed as a multiple of base salary which may be awarded to new Executive Directors in respect oftheir appointment shall be no more generous than the combined maximum limits expressed in the Remuneration policy table above in respect of the Chief Executive, with an appropriate mix between annual bonus and LTIP opportunity, excluding any awards made to compensate the Executive Director for awards forfeited by their previous employer.
It may be necessary to compensate the new Executive Director for variable pay being forfeited from their current employer.
The Committees intention is that any such award would be no more generous than the awards being forfeited and would be determined on a comparable basis at the time of grant, including thepayout schedule and performance conditions, where appropriate.
In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests ofboth the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than isnecessary, particularly when determining buy out arrangements.
For both internal and external appointments, it may be deemed appropriate to buy out awards held in carried interest or other asset-related incentive arrangements.
The Committees intention is that any such buy out would be at a fair value at the time of appointment.
In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table above.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 91 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued Service contracts The main terms of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served in the year were as follows: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice if given by the Company 6 months notice if given by the Executive Director Company policy is that Executive Directors notice periods should not normally exceed one year.
Save for these notice periods the contracts have no unexpired terms.
Dates of contracts Mr S A Borrows 17 May 2012 Mrs J S Wilson 1 October 2008 Termination payments Mr Borrows contract entitles the Company to terminate employment without notice subject to making 12 monthly payments thereafter equivalent to monthly basic pay and benets less any amounts earned from alternative employment.
All Directors contracts entitle the Company to give pay in lieu of notice.
Remuneration The operation of all incentive plans, including being eligible to be considered for an annual bonus and Long-term andbenets Incentive Plan awards, is non-contractual.
On termination of employment outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant planrules.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services.
Their appointment letters provide for noentitlement to compensation or other benets on ceasing to be a Director.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys headquarters in business hours.
Payment for loss of ofce As outlined above, the Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations agreed with the Executive Directors.
Details of the Directors notice periods are shown alongside the service contract information.
An Executive Director may be eligible to receive a time pro-rated annual bonus in respect of the year up until he or she ceased employment.
In determining whether to award any bonus, the Committee will assess performance during the financial year uptothedate of cessation of active involvement in their management role.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table and the note below itsummarise the leaver categories and the impact on the share awards which employees including Executive Directors may hold.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee reserves the right to makeany remuneration payments and payments for loss of ofce notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were agreed i before the 2014 policy came into effect or ii before this policy came into effect, provided that the terms of payment were consistent with the shareholder approved Directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at atime when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration forthe individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award or option over shares, theterms of the payment are agreed at the timethe awardis granted.
92 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation 1 1 Plan Good leaver categories Good leaver treatment Bad leaver treatment Deferred share awards Death Awards vest in full on the normal Unvested awards lapse vestingdate.
Retirement Vested awards structured as On death, awards vest in full immediately.
Ill-health, injury, disability options may be exercised Redundancy forthree months following the participants cessation Employing company business ceasing ofemployment.
tobe part of 3i Group Scheduled Departure ie a participant leaving on such a basis and or within aspecied timeframe as agreed by theCommittee Long-term Incentive Plan Death Awards vest on the normal vesting date Awards normally lapse in full.
Pro rating for Retirement If the Committee decides in timewill apply.
exceptional circumstances Ill-health, injury, disability If a participant dies, the Committee will that the awards should vest Redundancy determine the extent to which awards after the participants Employing company business ceasing should vest as soon as practicable cessation ofemployment, tobe part of 3i Group followingthe participants death.
awards will vest subject to Scheduled Departure ie a participant performance and pro rating for time and other conditions leaving on such a basis and or within aspecied timeframe as agreed by may be imposed.
theCommittee 1 The treatments set out in the table above apply to all employees and are expected to operate in the vast majority of cases.
The Plan rules retain discretion for the Committee to reduce awards in exceptional circumstances to Good Leavers or permit vesting in whole or in part of awards which would otherwise lapse to BadLeavers.
The Committee will report on the use ofthis discretion if it is exercised in relation to any Executive Director.
Change of control If there is a takeover or winding up of the Company, awards will vest tothe extent determined by the Committee.
Scenarios Chief Executive 000s Finance Director 000s 12% 44% 44% 5,436 Maximum 19% 40.5% 40.5% 2,683 Maximum Actual Actual 12% 43% 45% 5,316 19% 39% 42% 2,602 FY2017 FY2017 100% 498 Minimum 100% 628 Minimum 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Long-term incentive Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Long-term incentive including deferred element including deferred element 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 93 Corporate Governance Direc tors remuneration report continued The assumptions made in preparing these graphs are that: Consideration of shareholder views The Committee has remained engaged with shareholders Minimum this includes only the xed elements of pay, during the period since 2014, and will continue to be beingbase salary, benets and pension: mindful of shareholder views when evaluating and setting Actual this represents the remuneration received by each ongoing remuneration strategy, and commits to consulting Executive Director for their performance in the year: with shareholders prior to any significant changes to Maximum this is calculated as the xed elements and the remuneration policy.
maximum Annual Bonus and Long-term Incentive Plan awards: By Order of the Board and Remuneration arising as a result of share price movements or Jonathan Asquith rights to dividends and other distributions have been excluded.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 17 May 2017 Consideration of wider employee pay As part of the annual Committee agenda, the Committee reviews the overall pay and bonus decisions in aggregate for the Group.
This ensures that the pay and conditions in the wider Group are taken into account when determining Directors pay.
In particular: Salary increases awarded over time to other employees are taken intoaccount when considering salary increases for the Executive Directors: and The bonus awards made to Directors are considered and made in thecontext of discretionary bonus awards made within the business.
These are based upon Company performance, and are closely correlated to the Executive Director bonus awards.
The Company does not consult with employees when preparing the Executive Director remuneration policy.
However, a number ofour employees are shareholders and so are able to express their views inthesame way as other shareholders.
94 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
