Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2017 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the Remuneration Report contains a summary of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which governs the Companys approach to remuneration.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM in July 2015 and is applicable for a period of three years, unless shareholder approval is sought within that period to amend the Policy.
It is the policy of the Company to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of a high calibre and reward the executives for enhancing value to shareholders.
The Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors, including: setting salaries: agreeing conditions and coverage of annual incentive schemes and long term incentives: policy for and scope of pension arrangements: determining targets for performance-related schemes: scope and content of service contracts: and deciding the extent of compensation if any on termination of service contracts.
The Committees members are currently Tim Clark Committee Chairman, Richard Cotton, Georgina Harvey, Steve Johnson and Mark Richardson.
Georgina Harvey will replace Tim Clark as Chairman of the Committee at the 2017 AGM.
The Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Company website.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy The main components of the Policy and how they are linked to, and support, the Companys business strategy are summarised below.
The full policy which was approved by shareholders in July 2015 is available on the Companys website at www.
This includes details of the policy regarding target-setting: remuneration arrangements for new appointments: payments for loss of office and other matters.
Element Operation of element Salary, Benefits Salaries are reviewed annually and typically set on 1 April after considering the salary levels in companies of a similar size and and Pension complexity in the FTSE 250.
To provide a level of When considering any increases to base salaries in the normal course as opposed to a change in role or responsibility, fixed compensation the Committee will take into consideration: that can attract and level of skill, experience, scope of responsibilities and performance: retain talent required business performance, economic climate and market conditions: to successfully increases provided to Executive Directors in comparable companies: deliver on our pay and employment conditions of employees throughout the Group, including increases provided to staff: and business strategy.
Our overall policy is normally to target salaries at close to but generally below median levels.
Base salaries are intended to increase in line with inflation and general employee increases in salary: higher increases may be applicable if there is a change in role, level of responsibility or experience or if the individual is new to the role.
The level of benefits provided is reviewed annually to ensure they remain market competitive.
Benefits currently include: private fuel, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
The maximum contribution to an Executive Directors pension or salary supplement is 20% of gross basic salary.
Executive Directors currently receive a contribution of 15% of salary.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 25% of salary with 10% of salary payable at target and 0% payable at threshold.
To provide cash Awards are directly aligned to the level of staff bonus and therefore linked to store performance, which is measured based on awards which aligns occupancy growth and net contribution, customer satisfaction and store standards.
reward to key Group strategic objectives and drives shortterm performance.
Long Term Incentive LTIP maximum grant is 100% of salary per annum with grants normally made at the maximum.
Awards granted from 2015 Plan LTIP onwards will vest at the end of a three year performance period subject to: To align Executive EPS 70% of award which provides a link to earnings growth and value creation in the Company: and Directors interests Relative TSR 30% of award which provides a link to delivering returns in excess of companies in the FTSE Real Estate Index.
with those of The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
shareholders and rewards value creation.
72 Summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy continued Element Operation of element Long Term Bonus The total maximum incentive value awarded across all four Executive Directors will not exceed 4 x 450% of base salary over a Performance Plan three year performance period : however each individual will have the potential to be awarded a maximum of 675% of base salary so long as the total maximum is not exceeded.
To ensure that the total remuneration Vesting depends on an assessment of performance over three years but reviewed annually against a series of financial and package is more non-financial targets aligned with the annual business plan.
competitive, The value accrued to participants may be subject to clawback if subsequent performance reflects adversely on achievement of supports the the targets.
The LTBPP also contains malus provisions.
Companys strategy A further holding period will apply to 50% of the award, such that 25% will be released one year after vesting and the remaining and its ability to 25% will be released two years after vesting, so that the full release of vested entitlements takes place over five years.
react to changing economic and Within the constraints of business confidentiality, performance measures for each year are disclosed in the corresponding business Annual Report on Remuneration the information for this year can be found on pages 78 and 79. circumstances.
Sharesave Scheme This HMRC approved scheme allows employees to align their interests with those of investors and also to share in the long-term success of the Company.
The annual allowance for investing in the Sharesave scheme is 6,000.
To encourage share ownership by all employees.
Shareholding Each Executive Director is required to build and maintain a holding of at least two times base salary in shares of the Company, through retaining at least 50% of shares vesting in share plans if this guideline has not been met.
Ensures that Executive Directors interests are aligned with shareholders over a longer time period.
Non-Executive Fee levels are normally reviewed annually in March and are set at broadly median levels for comparable roles at companies of a Director Fees similar size and complexity within the FTSE250.
Provides a level Fees are intended to rise in line with inflation.
of fees to support The fees may be paid in the form of shares.
recruitment and retention of NonExecutive Directors with the necessary experience to advise and assist with establishing and monitoring the Groups strategic objectives.
73 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2017 Illustrations of application of the Policy The graph below seeks to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Executive Directors based on the Policy approved by shareholders.
This is based on pay for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Element Description Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits.
Annual variable Money or other assets received or receivable for the reporting period as a result of the achievement of performance conditions that relate to that period i. e. annual bonus payments.
Multiple period Money or other assets received or receivable for multiple reporting periods as a result of the achievement of performance variable conditions over a given period under the LTIP and LTBPP.
For the purposes of these charts, the LTBPP is represented by one-third of the potential vesting as it is granted once every three years.
This provides a better comparison from year to year and against other companies.
Assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under given scenarios are as follows: Element Description Minimum Fixed pay only no variable payments under annual bonus and Companys LTIP or LTBPP.
On-target 40% of annual bonus award being paid i. e. 10% of basic salary, 50% vesting of the LTIP and 50% vesting of the annualised value of the three year LTBPP.
Maximum 100% of annual bonus award being paid i. e. 25% of basic salary and 100% vesting of the LTIP, one-third of 100% vesting of the three year LTBPP.
Executive Chairman CEO Operations Director CFO 74
