Remuneration Committee Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Report for the financial period ended 31 March 2017.
The Report consists of three sections: this Annual Statement: our Remuneration Policy Report, which sets out a summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy for all Directors of Halfords: and our Annual Directors Remuneration Report, which sets out the details of how the Claudia Arney Companys Directors were paid during FY17 Chairman of the and how our policy will be implemented in FY18.
Remuneration Committee The Directors Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 Annual Our remuneration philosophy General Meeting and the Directors Remuneration is aimed at providing Executive Report is subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
Directors with incentive opportunities strongly aligned to growth, profitability and shareholder returns.
Remuneration Policy The Committee undertook a review of the Remuneration Policy the Policy in consultation with shareholders and shareholder advisory bodies.
In general, shareholders were supportive of the changes proposed and we adapted the proposals in certain areas to reflect the feedback received.
The key changes to the Policy are as follows: simplification of the long term incentive PSP and a reduction in the overall maximum opportunity from 225% to 200%: extension of the retention period for the PSP to enhance long-term alignment with shareholders the whole award is transitioning to a two-year holding period : reduction in the PSP start to earn quantum from 30% to 25%: changes to PSP metrics to ensure alignment with the strategy EPS has replaced EBITDA : increase in shareholding guidelines to 200%, with 75% of any vesting under PSP or the Deferred Bonus Plan being retained until guidelines are met: and reduction in the pension salary cap from 20% to 15%.
Overall, the Committee is confident that the proposed approach will support the Companys strategy over the next three years, and that it is fair and balanced.
A copy of the revised Policy is available at www.
78 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 78 07 06 2017 16:38:36 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Policy Implementation Remuneration Review The implementation of Remuneration Policy in FY17 is summarised The Committee approved a salary increase for the Executive as follows: Directors of 2% in October 2016 which mirrored the award for Support Centre colleagues and was below the average for all Performance Share Plan colleagues.
To ensure the interests of the Executive Directors continue to align Jill McDonald resigned on 3 May 2017 from her role as Chief with the delivery of the strategy, the Committee again determined Executive Officer and will continue to work her six-month contractual that the performance measures for the FY17 PSP would be based on notice period.
Jill will not receive a bonus in respect of 2016 17.
75% Group EBITDA growth and 25% Group Revenue growth.
All of Jills unvested share awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan Annual Bonus and the PSP will lapse in full when she leaves the Company.
On her Profit before tax PBT was 75.4m in 2016 17 and therefore 20.4% appointment it was agreed that Jill would be made Halfords share of this element of the bonus was achieved 80% of the total bonus awards with a total value of 529,819 to replace awards made by her being based on PBT.
There has been strong progress against our previous employer that lapsed on resignation.
These awards were to strategic priorities during the year, particularly in relation to matching be delivered in four annual tranches from 2016 to 2019.
Two tranches sales to specific customers, Cycle Republic like-for-like growth, have already been delivered.
Jill will forfeit the outstanding two service related sales growth and colleague engagement.
Therefore, tranches which were intended to be delivered in 2018 and 2019.
12.7% of this element should be paid.
This resulted in an overall Concluding Remarks bonus of 33.1% of maximum.
I hope that you find the Report clear, transparent and informative.
Restricted Share Plan RSP The Committee has sought to promote a remuneration environment The Committee has introduced a new share plan to promote further that strongly aligns the commercial direction of the Group with the alignment of more colleagues interests with shareholders and the interests of shareholders, whilst reflecting best practice to support engagement and commitment.
Executive Directors are developments and market trends.
I look forward to your support at excluded from the RSP.
The scheme will facilitate the granting of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
shares to colleagues as opposed to share options based on them Yours faithfully staying with the Company for a period of three years.
This new plan builds on the existing Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE which Claudia Arney continues to be open to all colleagues.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2017 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 79 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 79 07 06 2017 16:38:42 Remuneration Policy Report Executive Remuneration Policy Key changes under the updated Policy The Policy report set out on pages 80 to 88 sets out the To ensure that the Remuneration Policy continues to support the Remuneration Policy the Policy that the Company intends to apply, Companys strategy for the next three-year cycle and reflects market subject to shareholder approval, with effect from 26 July 2017 the best practice, the following key changes have been made: date of the Annual General Meeting AGM.
This Policy will replace in Simplify the long-term incentive PSP and reduce overall full the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in the 2013 14 Annual maximum opportunity Under the Policy approved in 2014, Report, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 29 July the PSP was structured so that a core award is granted and 2014.
It is intended that this Policy will apply until the 2020 AGM, participants have the opportunity to earn above this level the unless the Company seeks shareholder approval for a revised policy multiplier for exceptional performance.
The overall maximum which comes into force before this date.
award under the PSP is 225% of salary.
The operation of the The Committee seeks to support the delivery of the Groups strategy PSP under the new Policy has been simplified by removing the through establishing appropriate remuneration arrangements.
multiplier and the overall maximum limit has been reduced to Our goal is to build a strong long-term sustainable business by 200% of salary.
delivering ongoing sales growth and sustainable shareholder returns Extension of the retention period for the PSP Under the 2014 through the delivery of authoritative ranges of products, colleague Policy, the two-year retention period only applied to any portion of and service excellence, digital participation and helpful store and the award earned above the core award i. e. that part related to the Autocentre environments.
To reflect the simplified PSP structure and to make our Consequently, the overall Remuneration Policy of the Committee, approach more consistent with market practice going forward, a and of the Board, is to provide remuneration packages for Executive two-year retention period will apply to all amounts earned under Directors and other senior managers in the Group which: the PSP.
Transitional arrangements are in place to move to this position from FY19.
Attract and retain Enable the Group to attract and retain management of a high calibre with the necessary retail, Reduce the cap on pension contributions Under the new Policy customer service, financial, digital and service-industry skills and the pension cap of 20% of salary has been reduced to 15% of credentials required to deliver a sustainable business model and salary to reflect current operating levels.
Remuneration arrangements are set at Increase shareholding guidelines The shareholding guideline levels appropriate to achieving this goal without paying more than under the 2014 Policy for the Executive Directors was 100% of is considered necessary.
The Committee considers market data at base salary.
To further align executives interests with those of appropriate intervals to inform the positioning of executives pay shareholders, the shareholding guideline has been increased to relative to the companies of a similar size and in similar sectors, 200% of salary.
Executives will be required to retain 75% of any without seeking to match the median, to identify and mitigate the post-tax shares that vest under share incentive plans until this risk of losing strong performers.
The requirement to meet the guideline Link variable pay to performance and the delivery of the over a period of time has been removed.
agreed strategy Provide management with the opportunity to In addition to the above, other minor changes have been made, earn competitive remuneration through annual and long-term intended to align the new Policy to evolving market and best practice variable pay arrangements that are designed to support delivery and to simplify its operation.
Performance measures are aligned with strategic goals so that remuneration arrangements are transparent to executives, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Different elements of executive pay are delivered over the short and longer term and are designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of the executives remuneration is variable and performance-related.
Align executives with shareholders Ensure managements interests are aligned with those of shareholders by incentivising management to deliver the Groups long-term strategy of a sustainable, growing business and thus enhance shareholder value.
A significant portion of reward is delivered in shares to create alignment of interests.
Drive sustainable performance Remuneration arrangements are designed to support the sustainable delivery of performance and to prevent excessive risk-taking.
80 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 80 07 06 2017 16:38:42 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key elements of Executive Remuneration Policy Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Base salary, which is payable in cash, is set at an appropriate level to attract and retain management of a high calibre with the necessary retail, customer service, financial, digital and service-industry skills and credentials required to deliver a sustainable business model and drive shareholder returns.
Operation Maximum Opportunity Generally, salaries are reviewed annually with increases effective While there is no maximum salary level, salary increases will from 1 October but may be reviewed at other times if the generally be in line with increases awarded to other employees in the Committee considers this appropriate.
In determining base salary levels consideration is given to: However, larger increases may be made at the discretion of the Committee to take into account circumstances such as: the individuals experience and the performance of the Group changes in an individuals role or responsibility: and the individual: to reflect an individuals progression and increase in experience in salary levels at other companies of a similar size and the role: and complexity and at other UK listed retailers without seeking to match the median : and where a salary is significantly behind market practice.
the pay increases for other employees in the Group.
Performance Measures The payment of salary is not subject to performance conditions.
However, when determining salary levels the performance of Executive Directors is taken into account, in advance of any increases being awarded.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide Executive Directors with market competitive benefits consistent with the role.
Operation Maximum Opportunity The Committees policy is to set benefits at an appropriate level The overall level of benefits will depend on the cost of providing taking into account the individuals circumstances and market individual items and the individuals circumstances and therefore practice.
there is no maximum level of benefit.
Executive Directors currently receive a car plus fuel or a cash The maximum participation levels for all employee share plans is allowance, private health insurance and life assurance as standard the same as any maximum applicable to other employees and benefits.
consistent with any relevant HMRC limits.
However, the Committee may determine that additional benefits Performance Measures may be provided based on individual circumstances e. g. the use None of a chauffeur when it is considered appropriate.
In the event that an executive is required to relocate to perform their role then additional one-off or ongoing benefits may be provided such as relocation expenses, a housing allowance and school fees.
The Company reimburses reasonable business expenses and may pay any tax incurred in relation to these.
Executives are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other employees.
com 81 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 81 07 06 2017 16:38:42 Remuneration Policy Report Pensions Purpose and link to strategy To enable the Company to offer market competitive remuneration through the provision of additional retirement benefits.
Operation Maximum Opportunity Executives are eligible for a defined employer contribution funding The aggregate value of any annual pension contributions and cash to the Halfords Pension Plan, payments into a personal fund and or allowance for each individual will not exceed 15% of base salary.
a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
The Committee may determine Performance Measures that alternative arrangements should apply including for new hires.
When determining such arrangements the Committee will None consider cost and market practice subject to the overall limit set out in the maximum column.
Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise executives to achieve annual financial targets and performance against key strategic objectives.
Deferral of bonus under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP further incentivises Executive Directors to manage risk and align their long-term interests with those of shareholders.
Operation Maximum Opportunity The annual bonus is normally based on performance over a The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
Performance Measures After the year-end the Committee determines the extent to The annual bonus measures are based on a mix of financial and which targets have been met.
In certain circumstances the strategic measures.
Measures are selected each year by the Committee may review the annual bonus payout in the context of Committee to ensure continued focus on the Companys strategy.
At the performance of the business during the year and the delivery least 50% of the bonus will be based on financial measures.
against strategy and may amend the level of bonus payout upwards or downwards to reflect overall business and individual Performance measures are set annually to ensure they are performance.
appropriately stretching for the delivery of threshold, target and maximum performance.
Normally up to two-thirds of the total bonus is paid in cash.
The remaining one-third of the bonus is deferred as shares for three For 2017 18, the bonus will be based on performance against PBT years.
The Committee may determine that a different portion of and strategic objectives consistent with the Moving Up A Gear the bonus will be paid in shares or that the bonus may be paid in strategy.
Further details are provided on page 96 of the Annual Remuneration Deferred awards normally vest three years from award or after Report.
such other period as the Committee determines and have no additional performance conditions.
No bonus will be paid for below threshold performance, typically around 50% of the bonus will be paid for achieving target levels Malus and clawback provisions apply to the cash bonus payments of performance and 100% of bonus will be paid for achieving a and deferred share awards for a period of three years from award.
Performance targets are set by the During this period, the Committee may determine that payments Remuneration Committee with reference to prior year performance may be scaled back in the event of a material misstatement of the and the Groups business plan.
Companys results, or where the Company has suffered serious loss or reputational damage in respect of the period for which the Executive had responsibilities for the running of the business.
82 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 82 07 06 2017 16:38:43 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Executive Directors of a high calibre.
To align Executive Directors interests with those of our shareholders by incentivising them to deliver the Company strategy and to create a sustainable business and maximise returns to shareholders.
Operation Maximum Opportunity Annual awards of shares with vesting based on performance over Maximum award under the PSP is 200% of base salary.
a three-year period or such other period as the Committee shall determine.
The vesting of awards to Executive Directors is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Performance Measures A post-vesting retention period will apply to awards granted For 2017 awards will vest subject to the achievement of stretching under the PSP.
Shares that vest will not normally be released Revenue and EPS growth targets.
to executives and nil-cost options will not normally become exercisable for a further two-year period unless the Committee The vesting of 25% of the awards will be determined by the growth determines otherwise from the point at which the Committee in the Groups revenue and the vesting of 75% of the award will be determined that the performance conditions have been met.
In determined by the growth in the Groups underlying EPS over a FY18, transitional arrangements are in place, see page 96. three-year performance period.
The Committee can apply malus provisions to an unvested award if 25% of the award vests for entry level performance.
there has been a material misstatement of the Companys results Any vesting of the PSP will be subject to an underpin whereby the net or misconduct by the Executive, or if the Committee considers debt to EBITDA ratio remains below 1.5 times on average for the 3 there are other similar circumstances which mean that the malus years of the plan.
For future awards the Committee may determine that different The Committee can also apply clawback provisions to an award financial, operational strategic or share price related performance for a period of two years following its vesting if there has been measures may apply to awards or that a different weighting between a material misstatement of the Companys results, a calculation performance measures may apply to ensure continued alignment error in respect of the number of shares over which the award with our evolving strategy.
The majority of the award will be subject was granted or vested, or misconduct, actions or omissions to meeting a financial performance target.
by the Executive which have caused or contributed to serious reputational damage to the Company.
notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above Other information where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 29 July 2014 Shareholding guidelines the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors The Committee believes that it is important that Executive Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out in interests are aligned with those of our shareholders to incentivise this 2016 17 Annual Report came into effect, provided that the terms them to deliver the corporate strategy, thus creating value for all of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved shareholders.
Executive Directors are encouraged to acquire and Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: retain shares with a value equal to 200% of their annual base salary.
or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Executives are expected to retain 75% of any post-tax shares Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was that vest under any share incentive plans until this shareholding is not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the reached.
Current Executive Director shareholdings are disclosed on Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee page 94. satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an Legacy awards award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration the award is granted.
payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 83 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 83 07 06 2017 16:38:43 Remuneration Policy Report Plan rules Awards under any of the Companys DBP and PSP may: a. be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect: b. have any performance conditions applicable to them amended by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that the existing performance condition should be amended to ensure that the objective criteria against which performance will be measured will be a fairer measure of such performance and that the amended performance condition will afford a more effective incentive to the Executive: c. when assessing the level of vesting under the PSP, the Committee will consider the underlying financial performance of the Company and the value generated for shareholders and may adjust the level of vesting if it considers that the outcome based on the assessment of performance against targets does not reflect this: d. incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vests up to the time such shares are delivered.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: e. in respect of the PSP, be settled in cash or with the grant of a vested option at the Committees discretion: and f. be adjusted in the event of any alteration of the Companys share capital by way of capitalisation or rights issue, sub-division, consolidation or reduction, the payment of a special dividend, a demerger or any other variation of the share capital of the Company.
Remuneration arrangements in different performance scenarios As outlined above, the Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is variable and performance-related.
By linking the remuneration of the individual Executive Director to the performance of the Company, the Committee seeks, as far as possible, to motivate that individual towards superior business performance and shareholder value creation, and to only pay rewards when these goals have been realised.
Performance measures are aligned with strategic goals so that remuneration arrangements are transparent to Directors, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The charts below illustrate remuneration arrangements in different performance scenarios.
The assumptions for each scenario are outlined below: Fixed Pay Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension only Expected Fixed pay On target PSP award 50% of PSP award Maximum Fixed pay 100% of maximum annual bonus opportunity 100% of maximum PSP award Pension Based Base Salary with Benefits Single on Salary with effect from Figure Value effect from Total Fixed Executive Director 1 October 2016 for 2016 17 1 October 2016 Remuneration Jill McDonald CEO 520,200 10,262 76,500 606,962 Jonny Mason CFO 357,000 17,699 52,500 427,199 84 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 84 07 06 2017 16:38:43 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, Performance conditions the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved Annual bonus: The bonus is subject to a mix of financial and strategic remuneration policy in force at that time.
These measures are selected to provide an appropriate balance between profitability and strategic objectives and to In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board incentivise individual Directors to meet corporate targets and drive legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including individual performance.
Targets are set on an annual basis taking into pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
account internal and external expectations of performance.
Remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the Group Performance Share Plan PSP : The performance measures for Whilst our Remuneration Policy follows the same principles across 2017 awards are Group Revenue and underlying EPS growth.
the Group, remuneration packages for colleagues reflect their Revenue growth is strongly aligned with our Moving Up A Gear different roles and experiences, and market practice for similar roles.
strategy and is easily identified by both management and shareholders.
However, in order to add value for shareholders, The remuneration policy for senior executives in the Group is similar revenue improvements need to lead through to improved profitability.
to the policy for Executive Directors as set out in this report a The majority of the PSP award is therefore subject to improved substantial proportion of remuneration is performance-related in bottom line profit performance measuring the overall success of the order to encourage and reward superior business performance and implementation of our strategy.
Targets are set taking into account shareholder returns and remuneration is linked to both individual internal and external expectations of performance.
Basic salary is targeted at normal commercial rates for comparable roles and is benchmarked on a The Committee may determine that different performance measures regular basis.
Bonuses can be earned on the same basis as the will apply to future PSP awards.
Senior executives immediately below Board level also benefit from participation in the PSP.
Recruitment remuneration policy When hiring a new Executive Director, it would be expected that the Increases to executive managers base salaries are considered at the structure and quantum of the variable pay elements would reflect same time as all other colleagues across the Group and increases are those set out in the Policy table above.
However, at recruitment, the generally in line with all colleagues.
Committee would retain the discretion to flex the balance between All of the Groups circa 10,000 colleagues are eligible to join the annual and long-term incentives and the measures used to assess Halfords Sharesave Plan SAYE after they have served one performance for these elements, with the intention that a significant complete months service.
Where appropriate, some groups of proportion would be delivered in shares and that variable pay colleagues are eligible for a quarterly or full year bonus, although the would be subject to performance conditions.
In all cases the value type, limits and performance conditions vary according to job level.
of any variable pay that will be granted in respect of an executives Senior managers and other key management individuals are invited recruitment excluding any buyout compensation for the loss of to join the Company Share Option Scheme or the Restricted Share existing variable remuneration benefits will be a maximum of 350% Plan.
In 2016 17 all newly appointed colleagues and other existing The Committee may also make arrangements to compensate the colleagues who had experienced a joining-trigger event were new Executive Director for loss of existing remuneration when eligible to join the Halfords Pension Plan 2009.
All members of the leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee may take Pension Plan are required to make a minimum contribution of 1% account of the form in which they were granted: any relevant and the Company also contributes a minimum of 1%, dependent on performance conditions: the length of time that any relevant length of service and seniority.
During the year the Company has met performance periods have to run: and the organisation which its obligations under the pensions auto enrolment legislation, auto previously employed the Executive Director.
The Committee will seek enrolling all other colleagues as appropriate.
to deliver buy-out arrangements on a broadly like-for-like basis to those forfeited.
Executive Directors service agreements When determining salary levels for a new Executive Director, the Term and notice periods Committee may set the initial salary level towards the lower end of The Companys policy in relation to contractual terms on termination, market practice and may award higher salary increases in the first and any payments made, is that they should be fair to the individual, few years as the individual gains in experience to move them towards the Company and shareholders.
Failure should not be rewarded and a more market normal level.
the departing Executive Directors duty to mitigate any loss he or she suffers should be recognised.
The notice period for the current To facilitate buy-out awards outlined above, in the event of Executive Directors is six months on either side.
The Committee recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive policy is that notice period for new Executive Directors will be no Director under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting more than 12 months.
The Committee will continue to review this of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of policy, to ensure that it remains in line with the Companys overall an Executive Director without seeking prior shareholder approval or Remuneration Policy.
under other relevant Company incentive plans.
Date of Service Notice For external and internal appointments, the Committee may Agreement Period agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as Jill McDonald 11 May 2015 6 months appropriate.
In addition, the Committee may agree to provide tax Jonny Mason 12 October 2015 6 months equalisation for any new appointment.
com 85 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 85 07 06 2017 16:38:43 Remuneration Policy Report Termination of contract Mitigation on termination No compensation would be payable if a service contract were to Where a contract has been terminated early the Executive Director be terminated by notice from an Executive Director or for lawful shall use their best endeavours to secure an alternative source of termination by the Company other than as set out below.
The remuneration, thus mitigating any loss to the Company, and shall Company may terminate service agreements in accordance with provide the Board with evidence of such endeavours upon their the appropriate notice periods.
In the event of termination for any reasonable request.
If the Executive Director fails to provide such reason other than for a reason justifying summary termination in evidence the Board may cease all further payments of compensation.
accordance with the terms of the service agreement the Company To the extent that the Executive Director receives any sums as a may but is not obliged to pay to the Executive Director, in lieu of result of alternative employment or provision of services while he or notice, a sum equal to the Executive Directors then salary, benefits she is receiving such payments from the Company, the payments and pension contributions, which he or she would have received may be reduced by the amount of such sums.
In good leaver during the contractual notice period six months, the sum of which circumstances the Executive Director might be offered a lump sum shall normally be payable in monthly instalments.
termination payment paid at the time they cease employment which would normally be less than he or she would receive if he or she were Executive Directors who are considered to be good leavers may, to be paid his or her annual salary and benefits over six months.
if the Committee determines, receive a bonus for the financial year in which they leave employment.
Such bonus will normally be Change of control calculated on a pro rata basis by reference to their period of service The service agreements of Executive Directors do not provide for in the financial period in which their employment is terminated and any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the performance against targets.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in The Executive Directors services contracts are available for connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an Share plans leaver treatment existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an obligation or by way of settlement of any claim arising in connection Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment with the with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
In addition, Group of the Companys associated companies is governed by the the Committee reserves the right, acting in good faith, to pay fees relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises leaver for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or provisions under the executive share plans.
professional advice fees in connection with his or her cessation of office or employment.
Good leavers as determined Leavers in other circumstances by the Committee other than gross misconduct Halfords Performance Share Plan Under the PSP Good Leavers include: Awards will vest at the end of the Unvested awards lapse on leaving.
death, injury, ill-health disability, redundancy, performance period and be released Awards for which the performance retirement, sale of the individuals employing at the end of the retention period.
The condition has been met at the time of business or company out of the Group or to Committee will determine the level of leaving but which were subject to a a company which is not associated with the vesting having due regard to the extent retention period will continue to be released Company or in any other circumstances the to which the performance conditions at the end of the retention period.
have been met and unless the Committee determines otherwise the proportion of the The Executive has 12 months from leaving, performance period that had elapsed at or if later, the end of the retention period to leaving.
The Executive has 12 months from exercise vested but unexercised options the end of the retention period to exercise if applicable unless the Committee options if awards are structured as nil-cost determines otherwise.
Alternatively the Committee may determine that awards should vest and be released at the time of leaving on the basis set out above.
In these circumstances the Executive has 12 months from his or her date of leaving to exercise options if awards are structured as nil-cost options.
86 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 86 07 06 2017 16:38:43 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Good leavers as determined Leavers in other circumstances by the Committee other than gross misconduct Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the Deferred Bonus Plan Good Outstanding awards vest on leaving.
Awards will lapse on leaving.
Leavers include: death, injury, ill-health The Executive has six months from leaving disability, redundancy, retirement, sale to exercise options 12 months in the case of the individuals employing business of death.
or company out of the Group or to a company which is not associated with the Company or in any other circumstances the Committee determines.
The leavers treatment under the Halfords Sharesave Scheme is determined in accordance with HMRC provisions.
In the event of an individuals misconduct all outstanding share awards would generally be forfeited.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company, PSP awards may vest and be released pro-rated for time elapsed in the performance period unless the Committee determines otherwise to the extent that the Committee determines the performance condition should be deemed satisfied having regarding to the Companys progress towards that condition.
The Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis in the event of a voluntary winding up or reconstruction of the Company or a demerger except that in the event of a demerger the Committee may determine the extent to which awards shall be time pro-rated.
DBP awards may vest on a change of control, reconstruction, winding up or demerger of the Company.
Alternatively, awards may be rolled over into equivalent awards in a different company.
Key elements of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Purpose and Maximum Performance link to strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Chairman and To attract Fee levels are set to reflect the time, commitment and Overall fees paid None Non-Executive and retain experience of the Chairman and the Non-Executive to Directors will Directors high-calibre Directors, taking into account fee levels at other companies remain within the individuals of a similar size and complexity and to other limit stated in to serve as UK listed retailers.
the Companys Non-Executive Articles of The fees of Non-Executive Directors shall normally be reviewed Directors.
Association, every two years to ensure that they are in line with market currently conditions and any changes to said fees will be approved by the 600,000.
Board as a whole following a recommendation from the Chief Executive.
Non-Executive Directors and Fees for the Company Chairman shall normally be reviewed the Chairman every two years to ensure that they are in line with market are not entitled conditions and any changes to said fees will be approved by to participate the Board as a whole.
in any cash or share incentive The fees are normally paid in cash quarterly but may be paid schemes.
in shares if this is considered appropriate.
The Chairman is paid a single fee which includes his chairmanship of the Nomination Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee plus additional fees for their chairmanship of a Board Committee and for the role of the Senior Independent Director.
Further additional fees may be paid to reflect additional time, Committee or Board responsibilities if this is considered appropriate.
The Company reimburses reasonable business expenses and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive other benefits but reasonable benefits may be provided in the future if appropriate.
com 87 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 87 07 06 2017 16:38:43 Remuneration Policy Report Appointment None of the Non-Executive Directors has an employment contract with the Company.
However, each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company confirming their appointment for a period of three years, unless terminated by either party giving the other not less than three months notice or by the Company on payment of fees in lieu of notice.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors above.
The appointment period for each Non-Executive Director is set out below: Date of Current Unexpired term at the Director Date of Appointment Appointment Date of resignation Expiry Date date of this Report Dennis Millard 28 May 2009 28 May 2015 27 May 2018 12 months David Adams 1 March 2011 1 March 2017 29 February 2020 33 months Claudia Arney 25 January 2011 25 January 2017 24 January 2020 32 months Helen Jones 1 March 2014 1 March 2017 29 February 2020 33 months Their appointments are subject to the provisions of the Companies The Committee actively considers feedback received from Act 1985 and 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, and in shareholders prior to and following each annual general meeting.
particular, the need for re-election.
Continuation of an individual NonIt also actively monitors guidance and directional themes emerging Executive Directors appointment is also contingent on that Nonfrom institutional shareholder bodies on the subject of executive Executive Directors satisfactory performance, which is evaluated remuneration.
This feedback, plus any emerging relevant guidance, annually by the Chairman.
The Chairman is evaluated by the Senior is considered as part of the Companys annual review of Independent Director.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for Dialogue with employees inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered offices.
The Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when considering pay for Executive Directors Termination of Non-Executive Directors letters of and senior management.
When considering base salary increases, appointment the Committee reviews overall levels of base pay increases offered to No compensation would be payable to a Non-Executive Director other employees in the Group.
if his or her engagement were terminated as a result of him or her The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding retiring by rotation at an Annual General Meeting, not being elected Executive Directors remuneration.
However, at regular intervals the or re-elected at an Annual General Meeting or otherwise ceasing to Company conducts a survey of the views of employees in respect of hold office under the provisions of the Articles of Association of the their experience of working at Halfords including their own reward.
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early termination of the appointment of a Non-Executive Director.
Dialogue with shareholders The views of our shareholders are very important to the Committee and it is our policy to consult with our largest shareholders in advance of making any material changes to the executive remuneration arrangements.
88 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 88 07 06 2017 16:38:44 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual Remuneration Report Structure and content of the Remuneration Report Advisors This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the During the year, the Committee has been supported by Jonathan provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large Crookall, People Director and Tim OGorman, Company Secretary.
and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer also attend Amendment Regulations 2013.
This Report meets the requirements Committee meetings on occasion, at the request of the Committee: of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency they are never present when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee also engaged with Deloitte LLP, which advised on performance measures for the PSP, remuneration reporting and The information set out below represents auditable disclosures other remuneration matters.
Fees paid to Deloitte for this advice referred to in the Auditors Report on pages 102 to 106, as specified were 10,016, their fees are charged on a time and materials basis.
by the UK Listing Authority and the Regulations.
Deloitte has also provided advice to management, to enable their support of the Committee, primarily in relation to remuneration Committee Composition reporting.
Deloitte also provided unrelated tax advice during the year.
During the year, the Committee comprised: Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Claudia Arney Chair Group and adheres to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Dennis Millard Conduct when dealing with the Committee.
We consider Deloittes David Adams advice to be independent and impartial.
We are also satisfied that the Helen Jones Deloitte Engagement Partner and team, who provided remuneration There were five Committee meetings held during the year, attended advice to the Committee, do not have connections with the Company by all members: details are shown in the table on page 63.
The that might impair their independence.
The Committee considered Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reported to the Board the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were on the key issues discussed.
A number of informal discussions appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
were also held between the Committee Chairman and Committee Willis Towers Watson also provided the Committee with executive members throughout the year as the need arose.
Willis Towers Watson is also a signatory of the All members are considered to be independent for the purposes of Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
Fees paid to Willis the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Company Secretary acts Towers Watson for this advice were 3,500.
Willis Towers Watson as secretary to the Committee.
also provides insurance broking services to the Group.
Activities During the Year Shareholder Dialogue During the year, the Committee has The voting outcome from the 2016 Annual General Meeting reflected very strong individual and institutional shareholder support.
We discussed and approved both financial and strategic annual continue to be mindful of the concerns of our shareholders and bonus metrics and targets: other stakeholders and welcome shareholder feedback on any discussed and reviewed Directors and Senior Management issue related to executive remuneration.
In the event of a substantial salaries: vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, we would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote, determine discussed and reviewed attainment against the performance appropriate actions and detail any such actions in response to it in conditions for the Performance Share Plan and Company Share the Directors Remuneration Report.
Option Scheme due to vest during the period: During the year we consulted with our major shareholders and approved grants under the Performance Share Plan, Company shareholder advisory bodies on the changes proposed to our Share Option Scheme to senior managers below Board and the remuneration which are outlined in the Chairmans letter on page 78.
Sharesave Scheme: In general shareholders were supportive of the changes proposed reviewed the mechanics and assets of the Employee Benefit and we adapted the proposals in certain areas to reflect the feedback Trust: received.
reviewed the Executive Remuneration Policy: and reviewed the Terms of Reference of the Committee.
com 89 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 89 07 06 2017 16:38:44 Annual Remuneration Report The following table sets out the votes cast at the 2016 AGM in respect of the previous Remuneration Report and the votes cast at the 2014 AGM in respect of the Remuneration Policy.
Votes in relation to the Annual Report on Remuneration % of votes % of votes For Against FY16 Directors Remuneration Report 2016 AGM 98.66% 1.34% FY14 Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM 97.00% 3.00% 1.0% votes were withheld in relation to this resolution.
0.56% votes were withheld in relation to this resolution.
On 3 May 2017 it was announced that Jill McDonald has resigned to take up a role at another business.
Jill is therefore no longer entitled to receive a bonus for the year.
On 13 February 2017, Jill McDonald received an award of 38,635 ordinary shares as announced on 14 February 2017, made as compensation for Jills forfeited entitlement to long-term incentives and share options with her previous employer.
Jill McDonald was appointed on 11 May 2015.
One third of Jills bonus was deferred into the Deferred Bonus Plan, for a period of three years.
It was announced on 3 May 2017 that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO and, therefore, her 2015 16 unvested Deferred Bonus Plan award will lapse in full when she leaves the Company.
On 13 February 2016 Jill McDonald received an award of 38,973 ordinary shares as announced on 15 February 2016, made as compensation for Jills forfeited entitlement to long-term incentives and share options with her previous employer.
Jonny Mason was appointed on 12 October 2015.
In accordance with the announcement on 2 July 2015 Jonny Mason received a payment of 71,777 in March 2016 to replace his pro-rated bonus from his previous employer equivalent to the amount he would have received based on performance.
In addition, in December 2015 Jonny was awarded a Save As You Earn grant amounting to 4,500, based on the discount at grant.
These awards were not included in last years disclosure.
2016 17 Annual Bonus Annual bonuses for FY17 for Executive Directors were based 20.4% on Group PBT and 12.7% on the delivery of key strategic initiatives crucial to the delivery of the Companys strategy.
The PBT targets for the FY16 17 bonus were as follows: 15% payable at 73.0m 90% of budget 50% payable at 81.1m budget 100% payable at 89.2m 110% of budget Annual bonuses reported in the table on page 90 and payable in June 2017 for the FY17 financial period were calculated as follows: % achieved KPI Definition FY17 outturn Threshold Maximum out of 4% Sales matched to Proportion of sales we can match to customers 59% 30% 40% 4% customers Engagement index The index achieved in the survey planned to 80% 80% 82% 2% take place in April 2017.
Results available at end of April Service related The growth in total WeFit inc. 3Bs and Cycle 89.6m 83.3m 101.8m 2.7% sales growth Repair service and associated product sales Cycle Republic Like-for-like sales 27% 15% 25% 4% NPS Store performance 70 71 73 0 The annual bonus outturn was reviewed in the context of the performance of the underlying business during the year and delivery against strategy.
90 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 90 07 06 2017 16:38:44 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic PBT Measures Total Jonny Mason 108,171 67,292 175,463 In accordance with the Deferred Bonus Plan, Jonny Masons bonus will be paid two-thirds in cash with one-third being deferred into shares for a period of three years.
As set out on page 79 it was announced on 3 May 2017 that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO and therefore will not receive a bonus in respect of FY17.
We are committed to providing the greatest possible transparency in relation to retrospective achievement against the objectives that form part of the strategic bonus measures.
2015 16 Annual Bonus PBT Targets Last year the Company committed to disclose PBT targets for the bonus paid in respect of 2015 16.
These were as follows: 15% payable at 81.5m 40% payable at 86.3m 100% payable at 91.8m 2014 Performance Share Plan Award Awards granted in 2014 under the PSP were subject to the following performance conditions: Group Revenue Group EBITDA Growth CAGR Growth 25% of the award 75% of the award 1.5 initial award vesting 7.5% or more 9.0% or more Award Multiplier up to 1.5 initial award i. e. 225% of salary Straight-line vesting Between 6.5% and 7.5% Between 7.5% and 9.0% Core Award 100% vesting 6.5% 7.5% 150% of salary Straight-line vesting Between 5.0% and 6.5% Between 5.0% and 7.5% 30% vesting 5.0% 5.0% 0% vesting Below 5.0% Below 5.0% The performance conditions for 2014 awards are based on Group revenue performance and Group EBITDA growth.
The CAGR and EBITDA performance are assessed on an independent basis.
However, to ensure that the PSP continues to support sustainable performance, the performance levels are set on a stepped basis, where vesting on the revenue measure is dependent upon the EBITDA threshold being met, and in addition the revenue measure can only be one step above the EBITDA measure.
Given that EBITDA growth was 2.4% the scheme did not vest, even though the revenue growth was 5.2%.
The following table shows the history of PSP award vesting over the last five years.
FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 PSP vestings % of maximum 0% 0% 15% 102.5% 0% Jill McDonald was appointed to the Board on 11 May 2015 and Jonny Mason was appointed to the Board on 12 October 2015.
Neither therefore received a PSP award in 2014.
Benefits Benefits include payments made in relation to life assurance, private health insurance and the provision of a fully expensed company car or equivalent cash allowance and fuel card.
Pension Pension payments represent contributions made either to defined contribution pension schemes or as a cash allowance.
The CEO and CFO both received a contribution of 15% of base salary.
Leaving Arrangements for Jill McDonald On 3 May 2017 it was announced that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO.
Jill will continue to work her six month contractual notice period.
Jill McDonald will not receive a bonus in respect of 2016 17.
All of Jills unvested share awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Performance Share Plan will lapse in full when she leaves the Company.
On her appointment it was agreed that Jill would be made awards with a total value 529,819 to replace awards made by her previous employer that lapsed on resignation.
These awards were to be delivered in four annual tranches from 2016 to 2019.
Two tranches have already been delivered, one in February 2016 and one in February 2017.
Jill will forfeit the outstanding two tranches of this award, originally intended to be delivered in 2018 and 2019.
com 91 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 91 07 06 2017 16:38:44 Annual Remuneration Report Share Awards Granted During the Year Audited Performance Share Plan During the period we approved awards to the Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan as follows: Maximum face value of award 1.5x the number Threshold Date Type Number of awards vesting % Performance of award of award of shares granted of target award period Jill McDonald 11 August 2016 Nil cost option 214,586 1,158,764 30% 2 April 2016 to 0p exercise price 29 March 2019 Jonny Mason 11 August 2016 147,265 795,231 These awards were based on 150% of salary Based on the mid-market price on the date of the awards of 3.60 on 11 August 2016 As set out on page 79 it was announced on 3 May 2017 that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO and her 2016 PSP award will lapse in full when she leaves the Company Performance Conditions Awards granted in FY17 are subject to the following performance conditions: Group Revenue Group EBITDA Growth CAGR Growth CAGR 25% of the award 75% of the award 1.5 initial award vesting 6.7% or more 7.5% or more Award Multiplier up to 1.5 initial award i. e. 225% of salary.
Straight-line vesting Between 5.5% and 6.7% Between 6.0% and 7.5% 100% vesting 5.5% 6.0% Core Award Straight-line vesting Between 4.0% and 5.5% Between 4.0% and 6.0% 150% of salary 30% vesting 4.0% 4.0% 0% vesting Below 4.0% Below 4.0% In addition to achieving these targets, the vesting of awards will be subject to meeting an underpin of net debt to EBITDA ratio no greater than 1.5x throughout the three-year performance period.
This will ensure that net debt remains at appropriate levels and management is not incentivised to increase net debt levels to meet targets: the focus is to maximise the return on cash investments.
The Core Award shares that vest will become exercisable in August 2019.
To the extent that awards vest in line with the performance multiplier outlined above, these shares will only become exercisable in August 2021, following a retention period of two years.
CEO Share Award The Board agreed that upon joining the Company, Jill McDonald would be given an award of shares to compensate her for awards made by her previous employer that lapsed on resignation.
The value of these shares was 529,819.
Two tranches have been delivered, one in February 2016 and one in February 2017.
As set out on page 79 it was announced on 3 May 2017 that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO and therefore will forfeit the outstanding two tranches of this award.
Deferred Bonus Plan Awards granted during the year: Midmarket Awards price on Awards Awarded Forfeited Lapsed Exercised held date of held during during during during 31 awards 2 April the Dividend the the the March 1 Award date 2016 period Reinvestment period period year 2017 Vesting Jill McDonald 30 June 2016 3.215 16,525 1,247 17,772 30 June 2019- 30 June 2020 1.
Interim and final dividends have been reinvested in shares at prices between 3.615 and 3.87532 On 30 June 2016, one-third of Jill McDonalds 2015 16 bonus was deferred into shares for a period of three years.
As set out on page 79 it was announced on 3 May 2017 that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO and, therefore, her 2015 16 unvested Deferred Bonus Plan award will lapse in full when she leaves the Company.
92 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 92 07 06 2017 16:38:45 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Outstanding Share Awards Audited Performance Share Plan The following summarises outstanding awards under the PSP: Midmarket Awards price on Awards Awarded Forfeited Lapsed Exercised held Performance date of held during during during during 31 period awards 2 April the Dividend the the the March 3 years 1 Award date 2016 period Reinvestment period period year 2017 to 2 Jill McDonald 14 August 5.34 142,916 10,787 153,703 30 March 2015 2018 11 August 3.60 214,586 16,196 230,783 29 March 2016 2019 3 Jonny Mason 12 November 3.95 123,966 9,357 133,322 30 March 2015 2018 11 August 3.60 147,265 11,115 158,380 29 March 2016 2019 1.
Interim and final dividends have been reinvested in shares at prices between 3.615 and 3.87532 2.
Jill McDonald was appointed on 11 May 2015 3.
Jonny Mason was appointed on 12 October 2015 As set out on page 79 it was announced on 3 May 2017 that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO and, therefore, her 2015 and 2016 unvested PSP award will lapse in full when she leaves the Company.
Save As You Earn SAYE Midmarket Awards price on Awards Awarded Forfeited Lapsed Exercised held date of held during during during during 31 awards 2 April the the the the March Exercisable Award date 2016 period period period year 2017 Date Jonny Mason 30 December 2.979 6,042 6,042 1 February 2015 2019 1 August 2019 On 30 December 2015, Jonny Mason was granted 6,042 shares in the Companys SAYE.
com 93 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 93 07 06 2017 16:38:45 Annual Remuneration Report CEO Pay Compared to Performance The following graph shows the TSR performance of the Company since April 2009, against the FTSE 350 General Retailers which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Halfords Group FTSE 350 General Retailers Source: Thompson Datastream The following table summarises the CEO single figure for the past eight years and outlines the proportion of annual bonus paid as a percentage of the maximum opportunity and the proportion of PSP awards vesting as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
The annual bonus is shown based on the year to which performance related and the PSP is shown for the last year of the performance period.
On 3 May 2017, it was announced that Jill McDonald has resigned from her role of CEO.
Jill will not be eligible to receive any bonus for FY17 2.
Matt Davies was appointed on 4 October 2012 and resigned as CEO on 30 April 2015.
Matt did not receive PSP awards in 2012, as these were before he was appointed.
David Wild resigned as CEO on 19 July 2012.
Matt Davies tendered his resignation prior to the payment of the FY15 bonus and, accordingly was not eligible to receive any bonus in respect of the period.
Shareholding Guidelines Audited The Committee believes that it is important that Executive Directors interests are aligned with those of our shareholders.
Executive Directors are encouraged to acquire and retain shares with a value equal to 100% of their annual base salary.
Executive Directors have a five-year period to build this shareholding following their appointment.
As set out on page 83 from 2017 18 the shareholding guideline for Executive Directors has been increased to 200% of salary.
Executives will be required to retain 75% of their vested shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan and PSP until this guideline is met.
Jill Jonny McDonald Mason Shareholding requirement 100% 100% Shareholding as at 31 March 2017 41,057 75,000 Current value based on share price on 31 March 2017 145,629 266,025 Current % of salary 28% 75% Date by which guideline should be met 11 May 12 October 2020 2020 These figures include those of their spouse or civil partner and infant children, or stepchildren, as required by Section 822 of the Companies Act 2006.
There was no change in these beneficial interests between 31 March 2017 and 24 May 2017.
94 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 94 07 06 2017 16:38:45 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Outside Appointments Halfords recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden experience and knowledge which can benefit Halfords.
Subject to approval by the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, provided that these appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Jill McDonald received fees of 81,000 as a non-executive director of Inter Continental Hotels Group plc in the period.
Loss of Office Payments Audited No loss of office payment was made to a Director during the year.
Payments to Former Directors Audited No payments were made to former Directors during the year.
How the Remuneration Policy was Implemented in 2016 2017 Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director single figure comparison audited Total Total Senior Committee Single Single Board Independent Chairman Figure Figure Director Role Fees Director Fees 2017 2016 Dennis Millard Chairman 185,000 185,000 176,000 David Adams Senior Independent Director & Audit 50,000 10,000 10,000 70,000 68,000 Committee Chairman Claudia Arney Remuneration Committee Chairman 50,000 10,000 60,000 53,000 Helen Jones CSR Committee Chairman 50,000 5,000 55,000 48,000 Totals 335,000 10,000 30,000 370,000 345,000 Non-Executive Director Shareholding Director 2017 2016 Dennis Millard 70,000 60,000 David Adams 7,284 6,780 Claudia Arney 21,052 21,052 Helen Jones 3,000 3,000 These figures include those of their spouses, civil partners and infant children, or stepchildren, as required by Section 822 of the Companies Act 2006.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding guideline but they are encouraged to buy shares in the Company.
How the Remuneration Policy will be Implemented for 2017 18 Executive Directors Salary Base salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 October 2016 and increases were made as per the details on page 79.
Current salaries for the Executive Directors are as follows: Chief Executive Officer 520,200 Chief Financial Officer 357,000 Salaries will next be reviewed with effect from 1 October 2017.
com 95 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 95 07 06 2017 16:38:46 Annual Remuneration Report Annual Bonus The annual bonus opportunity for 2017 18 will be as follows: Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary 2 3 paid in cash 1 3 paid in Halfords shares deferred for three years The annual bonus will continue to be based 80% on Profit Before Tax PBT performance and 20% based on performance against strategic objectives.
PBT targets range from 90% of budget, where payment is 15% to 110% of budget for maximum payment.
The Committee reviews the goals included in the strategic objectives portion of the bonus to ensure that they remain appropriate.
These objectives include metrics in relation to customer service and colleague engagement.
In determining whether any bonuses are payable, the Committee retains the discretionary authority to increase or decrease the bonus to ensure that the level of bonus paid is appropriate in the context of performance.
Bonus targets are released retrospectively as they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive as they could reveal information about Halfords business plan and budgeting process to competitors which could be damaging to Halfords business interests and therefore to shareholders.
Performance Share Plan As noted in the Chairmans introduction, during the year the Committee undertook a review of remuneration arrangements and made a number of changes to the structure and operation of the performance share plan to reflect market best practice and shareholder expectations.
We have simplified the PSP for 2017 18 awards to remove the multiplier award for exceptional performance and the maximum award level has been reduced to 200% of salary.
The level of vesting for threshold performance has been reduced to 25% of maximum.
The vesting of awards will be subject to meeting the following performance conditions: Group Revenue Underlying EPS Growth CAGR Growth - CAGR 25% of the award 75% of the award Award 100% vesting 7.0% 6.0% 200% of salary straight-line vesting Between 3.5% and 7.0% Between 1.5% and 6.0% 25% vesting 3.5% 1.5% 0% vesting Below 3.5% Below 1.5% 2017 awards are based on underlying EPS growth and Group Revenue.
EPS growth has replaced EBITDA growth to focus management on driving returns for shareholder through improved bottom line profit performance measuring the overall success of the implementation of our strategy.
Group Revenue continues to be an important PSP measure which focuses the management team on driving volume in the business and are not proposing to change this element.
The two metrics will operate independently of each other.
The Committee believes that these targets are appropriately stretching in the context of the current retail environment, in particular the substantial cost headwinds expected over the next few years.
When assessing the level of vesting under the PSP, the Committee will consider the underlying financial performance of the Company and the value generated for shareholders and may adjust the level of vesting if it considers that the outcome based on the assessment of performance does not reflect this.
Any vesting of the PSP will be subject to an underpin whereby the net debt to EBITDA ratio remains below 1.5 times on average for the 3 years of the plan.
In particular the Committee will consider the net debt to EBITDA ratio over the three-year performance period to ensure net debt remains at appropriate levels and management is not incentivised to increase net debt levels to meet targets: the focus is to maximise the return on cash investments.
For 2017 PSP awards, 50% of the shares that vest will be subject to a one-year holding period with the remaining 50% subject to a two-year holding period.
For 2018 awards and onwards a two-year holding period will apply to the full award.
While committed to the use of equitybased performance-related remuneration as a means of aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders, we are aware of shareholders concerns on dilution through the issue of new shares to satisfy such awards.
Therefore, when reviewing remuneration arrangements, we take into account the effects such arrangements may have on dilution.
Halfords intends to comply with the Investment Association guidelines relating to the issue of new shares for equity incentive plans.
96 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 96 07 06 2017 16:38:46 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How the Remuneration Policy will be Implemented for 2017 18 Non-Executive Directors Fees The fees of Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed every two years to ensure that they are in line with market benchmarks.
Any changes to these fees will be approved by the Board as a whole following a recommendation from the Chief Executive.
The base fee for NonExecutive Directors was last increased with effect from 1 April 2016 this was the first increase in these fees since April 2013.
Current fees for Non-Executive Directors are as follows: 2018 2017 Chairman 185,000 185,000 Base fee 50,000 50,000 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 Committee Chairman Audit and Remuneration 10,000 10,000 Committee Chairman CSR 5,000 5,000 Change in Remuneration of Chief Executive Compared to Group Employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of all colleagues.
% change in base salary % change in bonus earned % change in benefits FY16 to FY17 FY16 to FY17 FY16 to FY17 1 Chief Executive 2% - No change 2 All colleagues 2.69% 9% - The budget across the business was 3% and the application awarded to all colleagues was 2% with an additional 1% merit pot.
Jill McDonald resigned from her role as Chief Executive Officer on 3 May 2017, and therefore Jill is not eligible to receive a bonus in respect of FY17.
In FY17, the Company introduced Life Assurance for all colleagues.
Relative Importance of Pay The Committee is also aware of shareholders views on remuneration and its relationship to other cash disbursements.
The following table shows the relationship between the Companys financial performance, payments made to shareholders, payments made to tax authorities and expenditure on payroll.
2017 2016 EBITDA 108.7m 114.6m PBT underlying 75.4m 81.5m Returned to shareholders: Dividend 53.5m 32.4m Payments to employees: Wages and salaries 195.5m 183.3m 1 Including Directors 1.3m 1.4m 1.
Based on the single figure calculation, not all of which is included within wages and salary costs STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
