Remuneration Report Year ended 31 March 2017 INTRODUCTION This report describes the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.
It sets out a summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders in July 2015, and remuneration details for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-size Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report is divided into three main areas: the annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: the summary of the approved Remuneration Policy: and the annual report on Directors remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the annual report on Directors remuneration which are subject to audit are indicated in the report.
The annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the summary of the approved Remuneration Policy are not subject to audit.
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, I am very pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Business conditions and Group performance in the year ended 31 March 2017 The business conditions and performance of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2017 are described more fully in the Chairman's Statement and the Operating and Financial Review of this Annual Report.
In summary: the business of the Group performed strongly: in an improving economic environment, Big Yellow remained the clear UK brand leader in self storage and delivered occupancy, cash flow and earnings growth for the eighth year in a row: revenue, cash flow and adjusted profit before tax increased by 8%, 10% and 11% respectively: like-for-like occupancy was increased by 2.8 ppts: the capital structure remains robust with interest cover of 6.2 times: and dividends are being increased by 11%.
Policy on executive remuneration The Committee is keenly aware of the sensitivity of the public, shareholders and the government regarding executive remuneration currently.
The Committee is also mindful of the concerns beings raised by these parties around the effectiveness of remuneration structures and the alignment of remuneration with shareholder interests and business outcomes.
The Committee continues to closely monitor the latest developments in the executive remuneration space to ensure that our remuneration policy and its operation continues to remain fit-for-purpose for the Company.
The policy of the Company is to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of high calibre and reward the Executive Directors for protecting and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Policy aims to provide: remuneration to the Directors which is fair to the Directors both generally and in the context of the remuneration of other staff of the Company and the returns to shareholders: and a balance of short and long term incentives which provide a strong link between reward of individual and Group performance to align the interests of the Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders.
The Committee believes that the success of the remuneration policy is reflected in the length of service, stability and strong performance of the Executive Director team.
Two of the Executive Directors were founders of the Company while the other two have been Executive Directors for 18 years and ten years respectively.
The Executive Directors have significant interests in the shares of the Company, each in excess of two times base salary, which is the Companys shareholding guideline for Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are interested in shares comprising approximately 9% of the share capital of the Company including unvested share incentives held.
The Committee does not intend to make any revisions at the 2017 AGM to the Policy approved in 2015.
The Committee will be putting a new policy to a shareholder vote at the AGM in 2018 as the current policy expires at that time.
A summary of the approved Policy is provided in the Directors Remuneration Policy section of the Directors Remuneration Report and the full Policy is available online http: corporate.
70 Remuneration changes during the year All of the changes in remuneration in the year ended 31 March 2017 were within the Policy.
In summary, the changes related to an increase in base salary of 2%, in line with the Groups staff.
Within the aggregate figure for Executive Director remuneration, the changes during the year were: Base salary: increased by 20,000 2% in line with increases provided to staff Taxable benefits: increased by 4,000 25% Annual bonus: was 10% of salary for the year in line with the average for all staff of the Company compared to 12% in the prior year a reduction of 18,000 15%.
Pension contributions: remained at 15% of base salary, and therefore increased in line with the increase in base salaries by 2% 3,000.
Sharesave Scheme: there were no gains from Sharesave schemes in the year 2016: one Directors Sharesave Scheme vested producing a gain of 14,000 in total Long term incentives: the 2013 award of shares granted under the LTIP vested at 100% representing a total gain for all of the Executive Directors of 1,566,000.
As in the previous year, each of the Executive Directors was granted an award equal to 100% of base salary subject to performance conditions.
The value of these awards was 1,004,000 an increase of 20,000 2% in line with the increase in base salary : and no awards were made under the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan LTBPP in the year 2016: total awards of 4.43 million were made to the four Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance targets for the year and concluded that, based on the relative achievement of those targets, the awards under the Plan have provisionally vested at 90% in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017.
The provisional vesting for the year ended 31 March 2016 was 90%.
There is a further years performance on which the LTBPP is assessed and a final assessment of the whole three year period to March 2017 is then made.
This final assessment will determine the extent to which the awards vest.
Salaries for the Executive Directors for the year ending 31 March 2018 have been increased by 2%, in line with the increase applied to all Group staff.
There are no other changes to the remuneration structure for the year ending 31 March 2018.
In considering the relative importance of the spend on pay see page 84 : Total employee pay: increased by 3%, and amounted to 15.6 million Profit distributed by way of dividend: increased by 13% and amounted to 41.2 million Retained profit for the year: reduced by 23% and amounted to 58.4 million As part of the remuneration package for our employees, we operate an Employee Share Save Scheme SAYE which allows any employee who has more than six months service to save annually up to 6,000, over a three year savings contract with the ability under the scheme to purchase shares at a 20% discount to the average quoted market price of the Group shares at the date of grant of the SAYE option.
In addition, our annual bonus scheme provides an opportunity for all our employees to earn a bonus based on the performance of the store they are based in against their store KPIs and targets for the year.
More details of the remuneration of the Directors in the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of the Remuneration Report.
AGM I hope that, at the Annual General Meeting in July, you will support the advisory resolution on the remuneration paid to the Directors in the last financial year set out in the Annual Remuneration Report section of this Remuneration Report.
Tim Clark Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 71
