Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information How the views of shareholders are taken into account The Committee understands that constructive dialogue with shareholders plays a key role in informing the development of a successful remuneration policy and will seek to actively engage This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the with shareholders in these matters.
The Committee will consider remuneration policy for the Company the Policy and has been shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of Any such feedback, plus any additional feedback received from time The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and to time, will be considered as part of the Companys annual review Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UKLAs Listing of the policy.
The Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as it In addition, when it is proposed that any material changes are to be currently applies.
made to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chairman will inform major shareholders of these in advance and will This Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM ensure that there is opportunity for discussion, in order that any views and, subject to approval, will take formal effect from that date.
Whilst can be properly reflected in the policy formulation process.
it is currently intended that the policy will apply for threeyears following approval, as noted in the Remuneration Committee Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in Chairmans introduction, the Policy will be kept under review given the Group the volatility and uncertainty in the executive remuneration landscape The Company does not formally consult with employees on executive which may result in a new Policy being required before the end of the remuneration.
However, when setting the remuneration policy for three-year period.
Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for, and the pay and employment conditions of, Role of the Remuneration Committee in setting policy other employees in the Group.
This process ensures that any increase The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, to the pay of Executive Directors is set in an appropriate context and the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors, is appropriate relative to increases proposed for other employees.
the Chairman and other senior executives of the Group.
The Committee is also provided with periodic updates on employee remuneration practices and trends across the Group.
The Committees overarching aims in setting the remuneration policy are to attract, retain and motivate highcalibre senior management Consideration of the impact of remuneration on risk and to focus them on the delivery of the Groups strategic and business The Committee is committed to keeping the balance between reward objectives, to promote a strong and sustainable performance culture, and risk under review to ensure the remuneration policy is aligned to incentivise growth and to align the interests of Executive Directors appropriately with the risk appetite of the Company.
The Committee and senior managers with those of shareholders.
In promoting these remains satisfied that the proposed Policy is appropriately aligned objectives the Committee aims to ensure that no more than is with the risk profile of the Company and that the remuneration necessary is paid and has set a policy framework that is structured arrangements do not encourage excessive risk taking.
so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
The Committee also recognises the importance of promoting a strong collegiate culture and this is reflected in the approach to consistency in the application of the policy across the whole senior management population.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of our remuneration policy The table below provides a summary of the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Element Base salary Annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP Pension Other benefits Purpose and To aid the recruitment and retention of To reward the delivery of annual objectives relating Intended to align the longterm interests To aid recruitment and To provide a competitive benefits package link to strategy high-calibre Executives to the business strategy of Executives with those of shareholders retention to aid recruitment and retention To reflect experience and expertise To incentivise the delivery of key strategic To provide an appropriate To provide an appropriate level of fixed basic objectives over the longer term level of fixed income income Operation Normally reviewed annually, with any increase All bonus payments are at the discretion of the The PSP was introduced on Admission in 2014.
Executive Directors may Directors are entitled to benefits including normally effective 1 April Committee Awards of free performance shares may be granted receive an employers a car allowance or company car, private Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Not pensionable annually in the form of conditional awards or nil pension contribution, family medical cover, death in service, life executives reflecting their experience and expertise Determined by the Committee following the end of cost options and or a cash payment assurance and other Group-wide benefits Any subsequent increase influenced by a scope of the year based on targets set at the start of the year Vesting is dependent on performance targets being in lieu of pension offered by the Company.
Executive the role: b experience and personal performance Bonuses up to 100% of salary are paid in cash.
met during the performance period and continued Directors are also eligible to participate in in the role: c average change in total workforce Amounts in excess of 100% are delivered in shares service of the Directors any allemployee share plans operated by salary: d performance of the Company: and e to be then held for at least two years A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Company, in line with HMRC external economic conditions, such as inflation Targets are set and reviewed annually the Committee to pay dividends on vested shares at guidelines currently prevailing where Periodic account of practice in comparable The cash and deferred elements of the bonus are the time of vesting relevant, on the same basis as for other companies e. g. those of a similar size and subject to recovery provisions that enable the Clawback and withholding provisions apply in eligible employees complexity taken Committee to recover cash paid clawback or to lapse certain circumstances including where there has In certain circumstances the Committee No clawback or recovery provisions apply deferred shares withhold payments in certain been a misstatement of accounts, an error in may also approve additional allowances circumstances, including where there has been a assessing any applicable performance condition, relating to relocation of an Executive misstatement of accounts, an error in assessing any or in the event of misconduct on the part of Director or other expatriate benefits applicable performance condition, or in the event of the participant required to perform the role misconduct on the part of the participant The Committee may provide other employee benefits to Executive Directors on broadly similar terms to the wider workforce.
The Committee has the ability to reimburse reasonable business related expenses and any tax thereon Maximum Annual increases will generally be linked to those Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, Maximum limit contained within the plan rules is Employers defined The value of benefits may vary from opportunity of the average of the wider workforce dependent on performance, but a lower maximum 200% of salary although up to 300% of salary may contribution and or cash year to year depending on the cost to Increases beyond those awarded to the wider may be operated be made in exceptional circumstances supplement of up to 12.75% the Company workforce in percentage of salary terms may be Normal policy awards may be made at lower levels of salary The Committee has discretion to approve awarded in certain circumstances such as where than this a higher cost in exceptional circumstances there is a change in responsibility, experience or a such as relocation, or where factors significant increase in the scale of the role and or outside of the Committees control have size, value and or complexity of the Group changed materially such as increases The Committee retains the flexibility to set the in insurance premiums salary of a new hire at a discount to the market initially, and implement a series of planned increases over the subsequent few years, potentially higher than for the wider workforce, in order to bring the salary to the desired position, subject to Group and or individual performance Framework used The Committee reviews the salaries of Executive Bonuses are based on performance measures with Awards vest after three years, based on challenging N A N A to assess Directors each year taking due account of all the stretching targets as set and assessed by the targets measured over a threeyear period, the performance factors described in how the salary policy operates Committee in its discretion majority of which at least 70% will normally be Financial measures e. g. EBITDA will represent the based on financial performance metrics majority at least 70% of bonus, with any other Performance measures and weightings will be measures representing the balance reviewed annually by the Committee prior to each Up to 25% of bonus will be payable for achievement of grant and the Committee has discretion to vary a threshold level of performance against the financial measures and weightings as appropriate to ensure measures, and up to 50% for on-target performance they continue to be aligned to the business strategy Measures and weightings may change each year No more than 25% vests at threshold to reflect any year-on-year changes to business The Committee has discretion to adjust the vesting priorities and ensure they continue to be aligned to outcome in exceptional circumstances to ensure it the business strategy is a true reflection of the overall performance of the The Committee has discretion to adjust the outcome Company over the performance period.
Any use of if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the overall discretion will be detailed in the following years performance of the Company over the performance annual report on remuneration period.
Any use of discretion will be detailed in the following years annual report on remuneration Bonuses are based on performance measures with AO World Plc stretching targets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Performance metrics and targets are carefully selected and aligned to the Companys strategic plan.
Summary of our remuneration policy The table below provides a summary of the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Any use of discretion will be detailed in the following years annual report on remuneration AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued In terms of the longterm performance targets, PSP awards will be Changes to the proposed Remuneration Policy from the current Policy set at the time of each grant but will normally include a majority based on financial performance in line with our key objectives of delivering Following a comprehensive review of remuneration over the last year, supported by independent external advice, the Committee profitable growth and delivering superior returns to our shareholders.
Where possible, the Committee will disclose the targets for each of determined that there should be no significant changes to the Policy, including to variable pay opportunities.
The changes in the proposed the Executive Directors awards in advance in the Annual Report on Remuneration, but targets will generally be disclosed retrospectively Policy are largely to incorporate the latest developments in best practice, including the following: where they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and the Requirement for any bonus earned above 100% of salary to be delivered in shares to be held for two years: and appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each PSP grant and will consult with major shareholders in the event of any significant Increased share ownership guidelines of 200% of salary for all Executive Directors.
Awards granted prior to the effective date Challenging targets are set whereby modest rewards are payable for the delivery of threshold levels of performance, rising to maximum For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with Directors prior to adoption rewards for the delivery of substantial outperformance of our financial and operating plans.
Share ownership guidelines Annual bonus plan and PSP policy The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP according The Committees policy is to have formal shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors which create alignment between their interests to the rules of each respective plan and taking into account normal market practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number and those of shareholders.
While it does not intend to alter the operation of these plans frequently, the Committee retains discretion over the following areas The required level is set at at least 200% of salary.
Where the holding is not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention working within the Policy : Who participates in the plans.
of at least 50% of shares or the vesting of awards on a net of tax basis from share plans.
When to make awards and payments.
How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and Differences in remuneration policy for Executive how much of an award should vest.
How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group.
Directors compared to other employees The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider Group Whether a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and whether and what proportion of awards vest at the when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader time of leaving or at the original vesting date s. How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain workforce when determining the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for special dividends.
Overall, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
heavily weighted towards performancerelated pay than for other employees.
In particular, performance-related long-term incentives The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust are generally not provided outside of senior management as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the PSP if events happen influence overall levels of performance.
That said, whilst the use of the PSP is confined to the senior managers in the Group, the Company is that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their original intended purpose.
committed to widespread equity ownership, and it has historically rolled out, and intends in the future to roll-out, an all-employee SAYE Choice of performance measures and approach to scheme on an annual basis, in which Executive Directors are eligible to participate on a consistent basis to all other employees.
target setting The performance metrics and targets that are set for the Executive The level of performancerelated pay varies within the Group by grade Directors via the annual bonus plan and PSP are carefully selected to align closely with the Companys strategic plan.
of employee, but the Policy is applied consistently across each grade of the senior management population.
In terms of annual performance targets the bonus is determined on the Reward scenarios Unaudited basis of performance against specific performance indicators and strategic objectives set annually.
The precise metrics chosen, along Under the Policy, a significant proportion of remuneration received by Executive Directors is variable and dependent on the performance with the weightings of each, may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy from year to year.
The Committee will review the of the Company.
The charts opposite illustrate how the total pay opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three different performance measures and targets each year and vary them as appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
performance scenarios: below target, ontarget and maximum, based on implementation of the bonus and PSP for the year ahead.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions: CEO total remuneration opportunity at different Below threshold fixed pay only i. e. basic salary, benefits and pension.
levels of performance 000 Target fixed pay plus 45% of maximum bonus payout and 50% vesting under the PSP.
2,000 1,872 Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of bonus payout and 100% 36% PSP vesting.
Fixed pay includes the base salaries for each Executive Director applying on 1 April 2017 together with pension at 12.75% of base 1,500 salary, a car allowance of 12,000 for each Executive Director and 1,164 the value of other taxable benefits such as gym membership and 36% 29% medical cover based on the cost of supplying those benefits in the 1,000 2017 financial year.
Maximum bonus is equivalent to 150% of salary and PSP award 26% level is equivalent to 150% of base salary, save for Mark Higgins 522 where the PSP award in respect of the current financial year is 500 100% 45% 28% 300% of salary.
Service contracts and loss of office payments 0 Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors Below threshold Target Maximum agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Companys policy is that Executive Directors service contracts must provide that no more than 12 months notice to terminate employment by either party must be given.
Founder total remuneration opportunity at different A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and levels of performance without any further payment or compensation, except for sums 000 earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain 2,000 events such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the termination taking into account the individuals performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into account by the Committee when determining amounts payable 1,500 on following termination.
Our Policy is to reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors where they receive remuneration from other employment during the notice period.
1,000 The Committee will consider the particular circumstances of each leaver on a case-by-case basis and retains flexibility as to at what point, and the extent to which, payments would be reduced.
Details will be provided in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration 453 453 453 500 100% 100% 100% should such circumstances arise.
In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: 0 Below threshold Target Maximum Provision Detailed terms Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Notice period 12 months from both the Company and the Executive Directors Termination Payment in lieu of notice of 115% of base salary, CFO total remuneration opportunity at different payment which is calculated so as to cover the value of levels of performance contractual benefits and pension, normally 000 subject to mitigation and paid monthly 2,000 1,931 53% In addition, any statutory entitlements would be paid as necessary Change of control There will be no enhanced provisions on a 1,500 change of control The Committee may elect to make a lump sum termination payment up to a 1,141 maximum of 12 months base salary and contractual benefits as part of an 45% Executive Directors termination arrangements where it considers it appropriate 1,000 to do so.
26% Annual bonus on termination 20% There is no contractual entitlement to any part of the annual bonus on 500 401 termination.
At the discretion of the Committee, in certain circumstances 100% 35% 21% where the leaver is considered by the Committee to be a good leaver determined on the same basis as it is determined in connection with 0 the PSP see overleaf a pro-rata bonus may become payable at the Below threshold Target Maximum normal payment date for the period of active service only.
In all cases performance targets would apply, normally measured over the whole Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP financial year.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Policy permits PSP awards of up to 300% of salary in PSP on termination Any share-based entitlements granted under the Companys share exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
The Committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements when plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated as a it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Any such additional payments would be based good leaver under the plan rules the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
solely on remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect as far as possible the nature and time The default position is that where employment ceases due to injury or disability, redundancy or retirement, the transfer of employment in horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
Replacement share awards, if used, will connection with the disposal of the whole or part of a Group business division or otherwise where the employing company ceases to be a be granted using the Companys PSP up to the plan limit of 300% of salary to the extent possible.
Awards may also be granted Group company, the leaving employee will be deemed to be a good leaver.
In all other circumstances unless the Committee has exercised outside of the Companys existing PSP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Shareholders will be informed its discretion to the contrary the leaving employee will be classed as a bad leaver in which case PSP awards lapse.
In the event that the of any such payments at the time of appointment.
The maximum variable pay that could be awarded excluding Committee does class an Executive as a good leaver, the Committee will set out its rationale in the Annual Report on Remuneration buy-out awards is 450% of salary bonus of 150% of salary and PSP of 300% of salary.
For good leavers, awards will continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting date unless the Committee The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the approved policy then in force, albeit with the opportunity determined that they should vest as soon as is reasonably practicable following the date of cessation.
Further awards ordinarily vest on a pro-rated for the period of employment.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set time prorata basis subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing.
The different performance measures and targets in the first year.
For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element Committee retains discretion to alter the basis of time pro-rating if it deems this appropriate.
However, if the time pro-rating is varied from awarded in respect of the former role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the the default position, an explanation will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration following departure.
For the avoidance of doubt, appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
performance conditions will always apply to awards for good leavers, although the Committee may determine that it is appropriate to assess For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses performance over a different period than the default three-year period.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for any new Executive Director would For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved fee be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
In addition, structure policy in force at that time.
with specific regard to the recruitment of new Executive Directors whether by external recruitment or internal promotion, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment remuneration policy will allow for the following: Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a starting The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
salary at a discount to the midmarket level, a series of increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary The letters of appointment are usually renewed every three years.
Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the discretion of terms may be awarded over the proceeding few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and development in the role.
either party on three months written notice.
None of the Non-Executive Directors is entitled to any compensation if their appointment is terminated.
Appointments will be subject to re-election at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors fees The Non-Executive Directors fees policy is described below: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To recruit and retain high calibre Fees are determined by the Board, with Non-Executive There is no cap on fees.
nonexecutives Directors abstaining from any discussion or decision in Non-Executive Directors are relation to their fees.
eligible for fee increases Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and do during the threeyear period not participate in any of the Companys incentive that the remuneration policy arrangements or receive any pension provision.
operates to ensure they The Chairman is paid a consolidated all-inclusive fee continue to appropriately for all Board responsibilities.
recognise the time The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board commitment of the role, fee, with additional fees payable for chairing the Audit, increases to fee levels for Nomination and Remuneration Committees and for Non-Executive Directors in performing the Senior Independent Director role.
general and fee levels in The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with companies of a similar size reference to the time commitment of the role and market and complexity.
levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled to have reimbursed all fees including travel expenses that they reasonably incur in the performance of their duties, including tax.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information As set out in our last Annual Report, the Annual Remuneration for the year ended 31March 2017 was structured within the framework of the remuneration policy adopted by shareholders in 2014 and has been implemented accordingly.
This will be put to an advisory vote at the Companys AGM on 21 July 2017.
Single figure of total remuneration for 2016 2017 Audited The audited table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company during the period 1 April 2016 to 31March 2017 and those earned during the period 1 April 2015 to 31March 2016.
Accordingly the basic salary reported for Steve Caunce is calculated at 11 months pay at the COO 390,000 rate of pay and one month pay at the CEO 450,000 rate of pay.
Similarly, the basic salary reported for John Roberts is based on 11 months pay at the CEO 450,000 rate and one month at the Founder 390,000 rate.
2 For John Roberts and Steve Caunce, benefits include gym membership, medical and life assurance and a car allowance of 12,000 paid in cash for both years reported.
For Mark Higgins, benefits include gym membership, medical and life assurance, car allowance and private fuel since his appointment on 1 August 2015.
Benefits for the Non-Executive Directors are the values of expenses incurred in connection with attending Board meetings and Company events which the Company has paid for, and in the case of Richard Rose, the value of assets given for private use.
3 Executive Directors are entitled to Company pension contributions of 12.75% of basic salary.
However given the new pension rules only 10,000 is paid into a pension and the balance is paid in cash after deducting employer National Insurance contributions at 12.8%.
4 Bonuses are paid post year end but relate to the year under review and include an attendance bonus of 200 which is paid Group-wide to employees with the relevant attendance.
Bonuses were calculated on salaries in force prior to the change in CEO given this was when the bonus objective was achieved.
5 John Roberts participated in full in the 2017 AO Sharesave Scheme launched in January 2017 on the same basis as other employees and was granted 12,080 SAYE options.
Steve Caunce participated in full in the 2016 AO Sharesave Scheme launched in January 2016 on the same basis as other employees and was granted 14,400 SAYE options.
Mark Higgins has not participated in any SAYE Schemes.
In all cases the SAYE value is calculated by multiplying the number of shares under option by the value of discount in pounds at the time the scheme was launched.
The exercise price for each award was set at 80% of the market value of the share price prior to the scheme launch.
6 The performance conditions relating to the IPO LTIP were not met and accordingly no share options vested in year 2016 2017 and in any event neither John Roberts nor Steve Caunce participated in the IPO LTIP.
Mark Higgins participated in the PSP prior to his appointment to the Board.
7 Geoff Cooper was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2016 and took the role of Chairman following Richard Roses retirement at the AGM, on 21 July 2016.
His aggregate salary therefore reflects a period at the basic Non-Executive Director rate and the relevant period at the agreed Chairman fee of 165,000 per annum.
8 Mark Higgins was appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company on 1 August 2015.
Reported remuneration for 2015 16 is that earned in that year since the date of his appointment.
The figures for 2016 17 reflect a full year in the role.
9 R ichard Rose stepped down as Chairman and Director of the Company on 21 July 2016.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued However, the Company has seen great success with the launch of the Details of variable pay earned in 2016 17 Annual bonus payments computing category, which is critical to future success for the reasons given above.
Therefore, the Committee has decided to award 10% of The targets for the annual bonus scheme for the year ended 31March 2017 were weighted towards financial metrics, with 35% of maximum the maximum bonus available for this measure.
Please refer to the table Bonus Targets and Performance for a summary of the performance bonus subject to Group Revenue performance conditions, 35% of maximum bonus subject to Group Adjusted EBITDA performance conditions, performance achieved against them and accordingly bonus payments made.
conditions, 10% of maximum bonus subject to a cash flow target with the remaining 20% subject to the achievement of strategic objectives, Long-term incentive payments split equally against the achievement of a successful launch of a new category and growing brand awareness to 35% or more.
The strategic The IPO LTIP Award was subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31March 2017.
Both John and Steve waived their targets of growing, brand awareness and rolling out new categories are critical drivers of sustainable growth.
Brand awareness is a lead entitlement to participate at the time, but Mark Higgins was granted options over 526,315 shares whilst in his previous role before joining indication to future sales and is a direct driver for long-term growth.
We look to incentivise our Executives to drive this long-term metric the Board.
The stretching targets set at IPO were based two-thirds on absolute TSR requiring the share price to increase from 2.85 by 33% which does not necessarily increase short-term revenue or profits.
Rolling out new categories should increase overall sales and gives us for a quarter to vest and by 100% for full vesting and one-third on EPS growth requiring Adjusted EPS to increase from 1.50 by 66% for a the ability to crosssell to customers on our database whilst, from a customer point of view, gives a much broader offering.
third to vest and by 200% for full vesting.
These targets were not met and therefore no awards have vested.
For Group Revenue, the threshold target at which a quarter of the Details of long-term incentive awards granted applicable bonus would be payable was 705m, which was narrowly missed.
Similarly for Group Adjusted EBITDA the threshold target during 2016 17 In the year, the Committee made awards to Executive Directors under again at which a quarter of applicable bonus would be payable was losses of 300,000, which was missed and the year-end cash balance the PSP, see table 1 below.
29.4m did not meet the required target of 32m.
Targets above the threshold are still considered to be commercially sensitive and should The awards were granted on 21 July 2016 and will, subject to performance, vest three years after the grant date.
Performance will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
be assessed over the three financial years starting on 1 April 2016 and ending on 31March 2019, and the measures, weightings and targets Bonus Targets and Performance are as set out in table 2, below.
% payout at threshold Implementation of remuneration policy for 2017 18 Measure Threshold for this Performance Salary weighting target element achieved Payout Following the transition of the roles of John Roberts and Steve Caunce Group Revenue 705m 25% 701.2m 0% in February 2017, the Committee approved an increase to Steves base 35% salary to be commensurate with what John Roberts was paid as CEO, reflecting his promotion and the resulting increased responsibility, scope Group Adjusted Losses of 25% Losses of 0% and complexity of his role, and a decrease in Johns salary to 390,000 EBITDA 35% 300,000 2.1m to reflect the reduction in responsibility but acknowledging that his Yearend cash 32m 100% 29.4m 0% Founder role is still an important component of our Executive team.
balance 10% Strategic Successful 100% Met 10% objectives launch of new 20% category.
Growing brand 100% Not met awareness to 35% or more Table 1 Basis of award Share price Number of Face value of % of face value granted at date of grant shares award that vests at Executive Director Type of award % of salary awarded threshold Steve Caunce Nilcost option 150% 1.344 502,232 675,000 25% John Roberts Nilcost option 150% 1.344 435,268 585,000 25% Mark Higgins Nilcost option 300% 1.344 669,643 900,000 25% Based on share price at the date of grant of 1.344.
Table 2 Threshold Target Stretch performance Weighting Metric % of award Target % Vesting Target % Vesting Target % Vesting Group Revenue growth Onethird 50% 25% 85% 62.5% 120% 100% Group Adjusted EBITDA for FY19 Onethird 23m 25% 29m 62.5% 35m 100% Relative TSR Onethird Median 25% Not applicable Upper quartile 100% AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information During the annual salary review, these salaries were reviewed but For 2017 18, three financial metrics will be used to determine the no further increases were awarded, however, the Committee has bonus payments of the Executive Directors, split as follows: approved a salary increase for Mark Higgins for the current financial year, based on his broadening duties as CFO and performance over 35% of the maximum bonus will relate to Group Revenue achievements, the year notably the completion of the revolving credit facility, the 35% to Group Adjusted EBITDA and a further 10% to a cash-flow recent equity placing and progress made within our investor relations performance target.
In addition, 20% of the notional bonus pool will be function, as further set out in the Chairmans letter, as further set out subject to an assessment of performance against key strategic in the Chairmans Letter.
The Board continues to see Mark as hugely milestones: being the delivery of an international transactional mobile important to the execution of our strategy moving forward.
He has application and brand awareness growth.
As mentioned previously, developed significantly over the last 12 months and fully stepped up growing brand awareness is critical to delivering sustainable growth to fulfil the role of CFO.
Ongoing, we see him as an important partner and is one of our strategic pillars for growth.
Improving the mobile to Steve having recently stepped up to the CEO role due to their journey for our customers across the Group is also key to development collaborative working relationship, thorough understanding of each of our offering for customers which we see as a longterm driver of others skill set and mutual respect.
In combination the Committee revenue.
The performance metrics are stand-alone and will be believes Steve and Mark will drive the future success of the business assessed independently.
creating sustainable value for shareholders.
In accordance with Policy, no more than 25% of the maximum bonus The Executive Directors will next be eligible for a salary review in early entitlement will be payable at threshold level: for on target 2018, with any changes effective from 1 April 2018.
For comparison, performance across the Group 45% will be payable, rising to 100% of the average salary increase provided to UK employees in the 2016 maximum on a straight-line basis for significantly outperforming the financial year was 3%.
Groups plans and consensus forecasts, based on the Committees assessment of achievement against the targets set.
The current salaries as at 1 April 2017 and those as at 1 April 2016 are as follows: The Committee considers that the targets themselves, in relation to the 2017 18 financial year, are commercially sensitive and therefore plans Base salary at to disclose them only on a retrospective basis.
Details of the targets, 1 April 2016 performance against those targets, and any payments resulting, will Base salary at for equivalent % be disclosed, as far as possible, in next years Annual Report on Individual Role 1 April 2017 position increase Remuneration, save where they remain commercially sensitive.
Steve Caunce CEO 450,000 390,000 15% As part of the remuneration package agreed by the Committee John Roberts Founder 390,000 450,000 -13% following the transition in roles, John Roberts is not entitled to Mark Higgins CFO 340,000 300,000 13% participate in the annual bonus scheme.
Steve Caunces salary as COO was 390,000 and this was increased on his promotion to CEO, to be commensurate with the salary of the previous CEO, Long-term incentives from 1 March 2017 It is intended Steve Caunce will be granted a PSP award with a value John Roberts became Founder Executive Director on 22 February 2017 and his salary was reduced from 450,000 following the transition of his role from CEO, equivalent to 150% of salary at the award date, in line with the normal effective from 1 March 2017 application of the Policy.
However, for Mark Higgins, as discussed in last years Annual Report, the Committee intends to make a further Pension and other benefits enhanced award of 300% of salary as part of his remuneration Executive Directors will continue to receive an employers pension package for the reasons set out in the Chairmans statement at the contribution or a cash allowance in lieu of pension at the rate of start of this report.
The performance conditions proposed this year comprise a relative Executives will also continue to receive benefits comprising a car TSR metric together with Revenue and Group Adjusted EBITDA allowance of 12,000 each, private family medical cover, gym targets.
The Committee believes these metrics provide the appropriate membership and death in service life assurance and the Company balance vis a vis long-term growth of the Company and shareholder will continue to pay for Mark Higgins private fuel.
return and that the targets themselves are suitably stretching and in line with the Companys three-year plan.
Annual bonus The operation of the bonus plan for 2017 18 will be consistent with the The relative TSR measure is calculated based on threeyear framework detailed in the proposed Policy.
For Executive Directors performance against the general retailer constituents of the FTSE 250, excluding John Roberts, the maximum bonus opportunity for 2017 18 with vesting commencing at median 25% of this part of the award and will be capped at 150% of basic salary.
Any bonus earned above 100% with full vesting at upper quartile levels.
For the Group Adjusted of salary will delivered in shares to be held for two years.
EBITDA GAE and revenue growth measures, we have set targets having regard to the Companys three year plan.
Details of these Performance measures have been selected to support the key targets are set out below.
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis strategic objectives and goals of the Company.
between the different levels of performance, see table 3 below.
Table 3 Threshold Target Stretch performance Weighting Metric % of award Target % Vesting Target % Vesting Target % Vesting Group Revenue for FY20 Onethird 921m 25% 970m 62.5% 1,018m 100% Group Adjusted EBITDA for FY20 Onethird 15.3m 25% 21.9m 62.5% 28.5m 100% Relative TSR Onethird Median 25% Not applicable Upper quartile 100% AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Directors Remuneration Report continued As part of the package agreed by the Committee following the Directors shareholdings Audited transition in roles, John Roberts is not entitled to participate in the Directors shareholdings as at 31March 2017 are set out below in table 4.
In the period from 1 April 2017 to the date of this report, John Roberts All-employee share plans gifted 1,407,407 shares in the Company to charity and Steve Caunce The Company proposes to roll-out a new SAYE Scheme each year and and Linda Caunce Steves spouse made gifts to charity of 600,000 all Executive Directors will be entitled to participate on the same basis and 220,000 shares in the Company, respectively.
Geoff Cooper as other employees.
Share ownership requirements Percentage change in remuneration levels Unaudited The required share ownership level for the Executive Directors for The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and 2017 18 will be 200% of salary.
There are no share ownership annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and requirements for the Non-Executive Directors.
previous financial year compared to that for the average employee.
For the benefits and bonus per employee, this is based on those Non-Executive Director fees employees eligible to participate in such schemes.
No changes to Non-Executive Director fees are proposed.
Accordingly, the fees payable per annum for 2017 18 are shown in the table below.
Chief Average per Executive employee Non-Executive Director fees 1 Salary 0% 3% Chairman fee covering all Board duties 165,000 2 Benefits 0% 0% Non-Executive Director basic fee 50,000 3 Bonus 0% -41% 1 Supplementary fees to Non-Executive Reflects the average change in pay for employees, calculated by reference to the Directors covering additional Board duties aggregate remuneration for all employees in each year divided by the average number of employees.
Audit Committee Chairman fee 10,000 2 There are no changes to benefit entitlements.
3 The Chief Executive Officer received a bonus of 15% of salary 10% of maximum Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 10,000 entitlement for the year ended 31 March 2016 as did the other Executive Senior Independent Director fee 5,000 Directors.
Members of the Group Executive Team received a 20% bonus and other employees eligible to participate in the Groups bonus scheme received a 6% bonus plus a flat 5,000 each.
For the year ended 31 March 2017 the CEO Payments to past Directors and loss of office payments received a bonus of 15% of salary.
Members of the Group Executive Team and There were no payments to past Directors or loss of office payments other employees eligible to participate in the Groups bonus scheme received made in the year ended 31March 2017.
10% of their maximum bonus entitlement 10% and 3% of salary respectively.
Table 4 Target Shares held shareholding Target 1 beneficially guidelines shareholding PSP SAYE 2 3 4 at 31 March 2017 % of salary achieved Options Options Geoff Cooper 100,000 N A N A N A N A John Roberts 109,243,583 200% Yes 502,232 12,080 Steve Caunce 52,116,382 200% Yes 435,268 14,400 Mark Higgins 23,928 200% No 1,306,915 N A Christopher Hopkinson 22,201,590 N A N A N A N A Brian McBride 52,628 N A N A N A N A Marisa Cassoni 52,628 N A N A N A N A 5 Rudolf Lamprecht 52,628 N A N A N A N A 5 Richard Rose 723,443 N A N A N A N A 1 Includes shares held by connected persons.
2 Comprises shares held beneficially only and excludes options or deferred bonus shares.
3 None of these PSP options which have performance conditions have vested.
4 None of these SAYE options which have no performance conditions have vested.
5 Richard Rose and Rudi Lamprecht were Directors during the year but have since retired.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Performance graph and pay table Unaudited Relative importance of the spend on pay Unaudited The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance against the The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs versus performance of the FTSE 250 Index from 25 February 2014 the date that in distributions to shareholders.
on which the Companys shares were first conditionally traded to 2015 16 2016 17 % change 31March 2017.
This index was chosen as it represents a broad equity market index which includes companies of a broadly comparable size 1 Staff costs m 60.9 75.6 24.1% and complexity.
Distributions to No distributions were made to shareholders shareholders in the year 1 Includes base salaries, social security and pension, but excludes sharebased Total Shareholder Return payment charges.
Rebased 140 Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment 120 Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place 100 as at 31March 2017 for Directors are as follows: 80 Director and Notice Notice 60 date of service period by period by contract or letter Company Director Date joined 40 of appointment Unexpired term months months Group 20 Marisa Initial term of Cassoni three years from 0 26 31 31 31 31 31 01 2014 date of letter Feb Mar Mar Mar Mar subject to notice 3 3 05 02 2014 2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 Steve Continuous Caunce employment This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2017, of 100 invested in AO World plc 14 02 2014 until terminated on 26 February 2014 being the date that shares were first admitted to trading by either party 12 12 13 10 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
Geoff Cooper Initial term of AO World FTSE 250 01 07 2016 three years from date of Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters letter subject to notice 3 3 01 07 2016 Mark Higgins Continuous The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief 31 05 2014 employment Executive during the financial years ending 31March 2010 to 31March until terminated 2017.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus payable by either party 12 12 10 07 2011 for performance in each of those years.
No long-term incentives were Christopher Initial term of eligible for vesting based on performance ending in any of those years.
Hopkinson three years from The annual bonus percentage shows the payout for each year as a 14 02 2014 date of letter percentage of the maximum i. e. 150% of salary.
subject to notice 3 3 12 12 2005 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Brian Initial term of 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 McBride three years from 17 02 2014 date of letter Total subject to notice 3 3 06 02 2014 remuneration 1 000 680 292 243 227 537 537 588 575 John Roberts Continuous 14 02 2014 employment Annual bonus until terminated % of by either party 12 12 19 04 2000 maximum 59% 18% 0% 0% 0% 0% 10% 10% PSP vesting All Non-Executive Directors with the exception of Rudolf Lamprecht % of who indicated his desire to step down agreed to an extension of the maximum term of their appointments for one further year in February 2017, 1 The total remuneration each year is that of John Roberts, save for 2016 2017 following expiry of the initial threeyear terms which commenced where the total remuneration is that which Steve Caunce would have earned for 2016 2017 had he been CEO for the full year at the basic salary of 450,000 around IPO.
The extension of such appointment is subject to the terms per annum.
of the letters of appointment in force.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Directors Remuneration Report continued External appointments Shareholder feedback Unaudited No fees were received by Executive Directors for external At the 2016 AGM, the Annual Remuneration Report for the year ended appointments during the year ended 31March 2017.
31March 2016 was put to shareholders by way of an advisory vote, with votes cast as follows: Remuneration Committee membership Number of votes % of votes cast The members of the Committee were for the year in question Brian McBride Chairman, Marisa Cassoni, Rudi Lamprecht until his Votes cast in favour 270,074,308 84.29 retirement in February 2016 and Geoff Cooper since Rudis Votes cast against 50,341,028 15.71 retirement on an interim basis as we conduct a search for two new Non-Executive Directors.
All current members of the Committee are Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 320,415,336 100 deemed to be independent.
Accordingly, the Committee continues to comply with the independence requirements set out in the Code.
Abstentions 6,395,081 During the year to 31 March 2017 there were four formal meetings of The Committee will continue to monitor developments in market the Remuneration Committee, all of which achieved full attendance trends and the best practice expectations of investors as part of the by the relevant committee members.
ongoing review of how the Policy is implemented.
As ever, the Committee welcomes any enquiries or feedback shareholders may The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Corporate have on the Policy or the work of the Committee.
Governance section of the Annual Report on page 58.
The Executive Directors may be invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee in its deliberations as appropriate.
The Committee may also invite other Brian McBride members of the management team to assist as appropriate.
No person Chairman, Remuneration Committee is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration or AO World Plc is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
5 June 2017 Advisers to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS provides advice in relation to remuneration and share plans both for Executive Directors and the wider senior management population and was appointed by the Committee.
NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice provided by them is governed by that code.
NBSs terms of engagement are available on request from the Company Secretary.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited an Aon Plc company which, other than acting as independent consultant to the Committee, provided no further services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is committed to regularly reviewing the external advisor relationship and is comfortable that NBSs advice remains objective and independent.
For the year under review NBSs total fees charged were 29,301 plus VAT.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80
