Remuneration Report Year ended 31 March 2017 INTRODUCTION This report describes the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.
It sets out a summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders in July 2015, and remuneration details for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-size Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report is divided into three main areas: the annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: the summary of the approved Remuneration Policy: and the annual report on Directors remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the annual report on Directors remuneration which are subject to audit are indicated in the report.
The annual statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and the summary of the approved Remuneration Policy are not subject to audit.
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, I am very pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Business conditions and Group performance in the year ended 31 March 2017 The business conditions and performance of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2017 are described more fully in the Chairman's Statement and the Operating and Financial Review of this Annual Report.
In summary: the business of the Group performed strongly: in an improving economic environment, Big Yellow remained the clear UK brand leader in self storage and delivered occupancy, cash flow and earnings growth for the eighth year in a row: revenue, cash flow and adjusted profit before tax increased by 8%, 10% and 11% respectively: like-for-like occupancy was increased by 2.8 ppts: the capital structure remains robust with interest cover of 6.2 times: and dividends are being increased by 11%.
Policy on executive remuneration The Committee is keenly aware of the sensitivity of the public, shareholders and the government regarding executive remuneration currently.
The Committee is also mindful of the concerns beings raised by these parties around the effectiveness of remuneration structures and the alignment of remuneration with shareholder interests and business outcomes.
The Committee continues to closely monitor the latest developments in the executive remuneration space to ensure that our remuneration policy and its operation continues to remain fit-for-purpose for the Company.
The policy of the Company is to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of high calibre and reward the Executive Directors for protecting and enhancing value for shareholders.
The Policy aims to provide: remuneration to the Directors which is fair to the Directors both generally and in the context of the remuneration of other staff of the Company and the returns to shareholders: and a balance of short and long term incentives which provide a strong link between reward of individual and Group performance to align the interests of the Executive Directors with the interests of shareholders.
The Committee believes that the success of the remuneration policy is reflected in the length of service, stability and strong performance of the Executive Director team.
Two of the Executive Directors were founders of the Company while the other two have been Executive Directors for 18 years and ten years respectively.
The Executive Directors have significant interests in the shares of the Company, each in excess of two times base salary, which is the Companys shareholding guideline for Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors are interested in shares comprising approximately 9% of the share capital of the Company including unvested share incentives held.
The Committee does not intend to make any revisions at the 2017 AGM to the Policy approved in 2015.
The Committee will be putting a new policy to a shareholder vote at the AGM in 2018 as the current policy expires at that time.
A summary of the approved Policy is provided in the Directors Remuneration Policy section of the Directors Remuneration Report and the full Policy is available online http: corporate.
