Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Directors Remuneration Report Following the review, we have concluded that, whilst we believe Report of the Remuneration Committee that there are benefits in using an alternative model for AO World in view of the difficulties in forecasting robust long-term targets, it is Brian McBride not the right time to introduce a markedly different policy this year, Chairman, given volatile market sentiment.
The Committee is therefore Remuneration Committee considering an alternative approach to setting threeyear targets for financial measures based around cumulative annual measurement, or similar methodologies that help reduce the sensitivity of vesting to forecasting error, but we are still forming our thinking on this and will consult with shareholders prior to any implementation.
The Committee is aware that the executive remuneration landscape is changing, and will continue to monitor developments as they arise the possibility of introducing an alternative pay model will be re-visited at a later date should it become appropriate.
Accordingly, it is proposed to continue with substantially the same policy for 2017 but with key proposed changes to introduce some of the latest developments in best practice, as follows: Our Remuneration Policy was last approved by shareholders at the 2014 Increase to shareholding guidelines the minimum level of AGM when it received a positive vote in favour of 99.6%.
This Directors shareholding which the Executive Directors will be expected to Remuneration Report sets out details of the proposed remuneration build up will be increased from 100% to 200% of base salary: and policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the next three Requirement for any bonus earned above 100% of salary to be years, as set out in full on pages 69 to 74, that will be the subject of a delivered in shares to be held for two years.
binding vote at the Companys forthcoming AGM on 21 July 2017.
We believe that the above proposed changes strike an appropriate The Directors Remuneration Report includes the Annual Report on balance between properly incentivising our Executives and Remuneration on pages 75 to 79 which discloses the amounts paid to alignment with shareholders, however we are aware that the the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ended executive remuneration landscape is evolving and will continue 31March 2017 under the current Remuneration Policy that was put in to assess this over the years ahead, mindful of the desire to align place at IPO and approved by shareholders at our AGM on 17 July 2014.
Executive and shareholders as much as is reasonably practicable.
It also describes how the proposed new policy will be implemented in the year ahead, and will be subject to an advisory vote at the This proposed revised policy the Policy continues to be forthcoming AGM along with the Remuneration Committee straightforward, transparent and aligned with the strategic and Chairmans Annual Statement.
financial objectives of the business: it delivers market competitive packages to the senior executives at base level and rewards the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the achievement of stretching targets at the other end.
The aim is simple Remuneration Committee to align executive pay with the interests of shareholders and to promote the long-term success of the AO Group for all stakeholders.
Dear Shareholder, Put simply, we pay for performance and we will not reward failure.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Performance and reward for 2016 17 Remuneration Report for our financial year ended 31March 2017.
The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 75 to 79, describes how the policy put in place at IPO has been implemented Proposed Remuneration Policy in the year under review.
It will be the subject of an advisory vote at At our IPO, we undertook a full review of our remuneration structure the forthcoming AGM.
to ensure that, as a public company, we would be operating within a framework consistent with best practice, while being mindful of the Whilst the Group performed well over the financial year, with total need to pay no more than is necessary to retain and attract high Group revenue increasing by 17% to 701.2m and Group Adjusted quality talent.
It has been three years since the policy was approved EBITDA losses cut by over 40% to 2.1m, our overall expectations and accordingly, during the year, we have assessed its effectiveness of financial performance were not met.
However, good progress and the levels of remuneration paid thereunder, in particular to the was made against the Companys strategic objectives, notably with Executive Directors, mindful of the changing landscape surrounding the launch of additional categories in both the UK and Europe which Executive Pay and increased shareholder and proxy body activism in is a fundamental part of our 4Cs strategy and should deliver both this field.
In particular, we have considered whether the policy truly revenue and profit growth.
The years annual bonus scheme supports the delivery of our strategy, sustainable growth and consisted mainly of financial targets, addressing both top-line shareholder returns whilst properly rewarding and incentivising our growth and profit.
For Group revenue, the threshold target at which executives, whether it has been optimally implemented and whether a quarter of the applicable bonus would be payable was 705m, alternative pay models would be more suitable.
Similarly for Group Adjusted EBITDA the threshold target again at which a quarter of applicable bonus would be payable was losses of 300,000, which was missed and the year-end cash balance of 29.4m did not meet the required target of 32m.
Nonetheless, our Executive Team has continued to focus on the execution of our 4Cs strategy and solid performance has been achieved see pages 23 to 27 and page 76.
Accordingly, 10% of the maximum bonus was payable for launching our computing category, which was achieved in October 2016 and which is trading well.
Details of bonuses paid are disclosed on page 75 and 76.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Directors Remuneration Report continued This is the first year we have had a completed PSP award cycle, with to the Group and this together with the strengthened balance sheet the performance period of our IPO LTIP Award spanning the three following the equity raising have greatly improved the financial financial years ended 31March 2017.
Both Steve and John waived their position of the company and given the directors the ability to drive entitlements to participate in this award back in 2014, given their gains growth in the right way for shareholders.
We would not expect to from the IPO itself, however Mark Higgins, who was not a member of make increases of this magnitude in the future, rather would expect the PLC Board at the time, did participate.
The stretching targets set at increases in salary in line with the broader workforce.
Other elements IPO, which encompassed an absolute TSR element requiring the of fixed pay remain unchanged.
share price to increase from 2.85 by 33% for a quarter to vest and by 100% for full vesting and an EPS growth element requiring adjusted In terms of variable pay, the Executives other than John Roberts will earnings per share to increase from 1.50 by 66% for a third to vest be entitled to participate in the annual bonus scheme where, as last and by 200% for full vesting, were not met with the share price year, performance conditions have been set in line with the Companys currently tracking below 2 and the Company delivering adjusted loss strategic and financial goals.
Financial metrics including revenue, per share and therefore no awards have vested.
Group Adjusted EBITDA and cash flow represent the majority of targets, with the remainder based on achievement of key strategic During the course of the year, there was a transition in the roles of our milestones see page 77 for further details.
The bonus opportunity will Executives with Steve Caunce taking over from John Roberts as CEO, be unchanged from last year at 150% of salary, and any bonus earned and John moving to an Executive Director role, as Founder.
Whilst the above 100% of salary will be delivered in shares to be held for Committee reviewed the CEO package, it was felt there was no need two years.
to make any changes, it being already appropriately competitive.
However, the Founder role needed greater consideration and the Steve, CEO, will be entitled to participate in our long-term incentive Committee spent time understanding what this new role would plan as last year with an award level unchanged at 150% of salary.
encompass and how remuneration would be best structured.
The For Mark, CFO, we believe it is appropriate to make one further award package agreed for John delivers i a reduction in basic pay and at the 300% level of salary.
As I explained last year, following Marks ii a significant reduction in total reward.
The change to base salary is promotion to the Board, the Committee was minded to approve an reflective of a reduction in formal responsibilities, whilst appropriately enhanced level of awards for the first two years he was in the role remunerating him for being a fundamental component of our reflecting his initial below-median salary positioning and so ensuring Executive team.
We also agreed that, going forward, Johns that in achieving a market competitive overall package, a higher remuneration should not contain any variable elements.
Given his proportion of his overall remuneration is sharebased and subject to significant shareholding already aligns his interests with longer-term long-term performance.
We have reconsidered this intention in the performance of the Company and shareholders, the Committee light of the strategic progress made by the Company and individual believes he is sufficiently incentivised.
The overall effect of these performance, as noted above, over the last year, taking into account changes will mean shareholders see an extremely dedicated and feedback from shareholders around our AGM last year.
As noted ambitious Executive Team, playing to their respective strengths, but above, Marks promotion and his role on the Board have proven to with total on target remuneration costs of c. 427,000 less per annum have a significant impact on the business and the Committee believes see charts on page 73 for the Executive remuneration opportunities he is critical to the successful execution of our strategy going forward.
at target which equate to 2.758m in aggregate compared to the prior Accordingly, we believe a further award at the enhanced level is year on target remuneration total of 3.185m.
appropriate in the circumstances and will give an opportunity for Marks interests and those of shareholders to be further aligned.
This Approach to Remuneration for 2017 18 is the final year we are intending to make an award at this enhanced Executives level, with his awards returning to normal levels in future years.
As discussed above, for the year ahead base salaries have been reviewed and, following his promotion to CEO, Steve Caunce will The PSP performance conditions will continue to comprise a relative receive a salary commensurate with that of the previous CEO, an TSR metric, Revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth targets see page increase of 15% on his previous salary as COO.
This increase relates 77 for further details.
The Committee believes these metrics provide to the increased responsibility, scope and complexity of his role as the appropriate balance visvis the longterm growth of the a result of his promotion to CEO.
John Roberts will receive a salary Company and shareholder return.
reduction of 13% to reflect his reduced responsibilities as his role transitions from CEO to Founder Executive Director.
The Committee Further details of the variable elements of remuneration for the has reviewed the base salary level for Mark Higgins and increased it Executive Directors are set out on page 77. to 340,000 from 300,000.
On his promotion to CFO in July 2015, Marks salary was set at below marketcompetitive levels for the role Non-Executives and, as I set out last year, we anticipated increases to the level of basic The base fee for the Non-Executive Directors excluding the salary over the two to three years following his appointment as Mark Chairman has been reviewed during the year and has been kept continues to grow into the role and gains experience and to ensure his unchanged at 50,000.
Fees for additional responsibilities such as salary level and package overall are positioned at the appropriate chairing committees and for holding the role of Senior Independent level relative to executive colleagues.
The further increase to Marks Director remain unchanged.
Geoff Coopers fee, as Company pay this year stems from that and his individual performance Chairman, also remains unchanged at 165,000 per annum.
This is a demonstrated over the last year notably the completion of the consolidated allinclusive fee for all Board responsibilities, including revolving credit facility, the recent equity placing and progress made chairing the Nomination Committee.
within our investor relations function, and is supported by an external benchmarking exercise.
In particular, the successful facilitation and implementation of the Revolving Credit Facility has enhanced the Brian McBride working capital available to the Group and this together with the Chairman, Remuneration Committee strengthened balance sheet following the equity-raising have AO World Plc greatly improved the financial position of the Company and given the 5 June 2017 directors the ability to drive growth in the right way for shareholders.
In addition, the successful facilitation and implementation of the Revolving Credit facility has enhanced the working capital available AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68
