100 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Directors Remuneration Policy Below we publish the Remuneration Policy table, which includes the elements of directors remuneration.
For each element we describe its purpose and its link to strategy, how it works, the opportunity, boundaries and performance measures and any clawback or withholding conditions which may apply.
This Remuneration Policy will, subject to shareholder approval, take effect immediately following the 2017 AGM and apply to all remuneration for the financial year commencing 1st April 2017 onwards.
The previous Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in July 2014, with 97.6% votes cast in favour.
The only significant changes between the policy presented below and that previously approved by shareholders are: A change to the base salary review date from 1st August to 1st April each year.
The increase will be pro-rated in the first year to reflect the Executive Directors service since their last increase.
The annual bonus threshold vesting is changed to 15% of the maximum opportunity, it was previously 15% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
An increase to the recommended shareholding level from 200% to 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and from 150% to 200% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Dividends will accrue on deferred shares during vesting periods and may be paid in cash or shares at the time of vesting.
Remuneration Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed annually and any Maximum opportunity Base salary is the basic pay changes normally take effect from 1st April No salary increase will be awarded which results for doing the job.
in a base salary which exceeds the competitive is to provide a fair and market range.
In determining salaries and salary increases, the competitive level of base Remuneration Committee will take account of the Details of the current salaries for the Executive pay to attract and retain performance of the individual director against Directors are shown in the Annual Report on individuals of the calibre a broad set of parameters including financial, Remuneration on page 116. required to lead the business.
environmental, social and governance issues.
The Remuneration Committee will further take into account the length of time in post and the level of salary increases awarded to the wider Johnson Matthey workforce.
Salaries across the group are benchmarked against a comparator group of similarly sized companies within the FTSE, with a comparable international presence and geographic spread and operating in relevant industry sectors.
New appointments or promotions will be paid at a level reflecting the Executive Directors level of experience in the particular role and experience at board level.
New or promoted Executive Directors may receive higher pay increases than typical for the group over a period of time following their appointment as their pay trends toward an appropriate level for their role.
