Governance Audit Committee Report Investments and derivatives Internal controls and risk management The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by: As set out on page 22 the Board is responsible for the risk assessment and review of internal controls of the Company, ensuring that all investment holdings and cash deposit balances had been agreed to an independent undertaken in the context of the overall investment confirmation from the custodian or relevant counterparty: objective.
reconfirming its understanding of the processes in place The review covers the key business, operational, compliance to record investment transactions and income, and to and financial risks facing the Company.
In arriving at its value the portfolio: judgment of what risks the Company faces, the Board has reviewing and amending, where necessary, the considered the Companys operations in the light of the Companys register of key risks in light of changes to the following factors: portfolio and the investment environment: the nature of the Company, with all management gaining an overall understanding of the performance of functions outsourced to third party service providers: the portfolio both in capital and revenue terms through the nature and extent of risks which it regards as comparison to the benchmark: and acceptable for the Company to bear within its overall conducting a review of how the Companys derivative investment objective: positions were monitored.
the threat of such risks becoming a reality: and Performance fees the Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact The Audit Committee approached and dealt with this matter of risk on its performance.
by noting that the Auditors, as a separate engagement, had Against this background, a risk matrix has been developed been requested to report to the Board on the accuracy of the which covers all key risks the Company faces, the likelihood performance fee calculation, and inputs to that calculation, of their occurrence and their potential impact, how these prior to the payment of all performance fees.
risks are monitored and mitigating controls in place.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the Taxation The Committee approached and dealt with ensuring responsibility for the review and maintenance of the risk compliance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act matrix and it reviews, in detail, the risk matrix each time it 2010, by seeking confirmation that the Company continues meets, bearing in mind any changes to the Company, its to meet the eligibility conditions on a monthly basis.
environment or service providers since the last review.
Any significant changes to the risk matrix are discussed with the Brexit whole Board.
The Audit Committee considered the potential risks to the Company as a result of the UKs vote to leave the EU.
Non-Audit Services Currently, other than the impact of exchange rates on the The Company operates on the basis whereby the provision of Companys investment values which is covered under all non-audit services by the Auditor has to be pre-approved Market Risks on page 22, the Audit Committee does not consider that the Brexit vote has significantly altered the risk by the Audit Committee.
Such services are only permissible profile of the Company as substantially all the Companys where no conflicts of interest arise, the service is not investments are based outside the EU, and the majority of expressly prohibited by audit legislation, where the shareholders are UK based.
independence of the Auditor is not likely to be impinged by undertaking the work and the quality and the objectivity of The Audit Committee will continue to monitor changes in the regulatory environment as the exit negotiation proceeds and both the non-audit work and audit work will not be re-assess the Companys risks accordingly.
In particular, non-audit services may be provided by the Auditor if they are inconsequential or would have no direct effect on the Companys financial statements and the audit firm would not place significant reliance on the work for the purposes of the statutory audit.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 41 Governance Audit Committee Report Audit Tendering  LLP have been the Auditor since July 2014, which was the last occasion an audit tender was held.
Formal Audit tender guidelines have been adopted to govern the Audit tender process.
As a public company listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the mandatory Auditor rotation requirements of the European Union.
The Company will put the external audit out to tender at least every 10 years and change Auditor at least every 20 years.
Auditor Reappointment  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue to act as Auditor to the Company for the forthcoming year and a resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the audit process, including agreeing the Auditors assessment of materiality and monitors the Auditors independence and objectivity.
It conducted a review of the performance of the Auditor during the year and concluded that performance was satisfactory and there were no grounds for change.
Audit Committee confirmation The Audit Committee confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and risk management during the year, as set out above and that: a An ongoing procedure for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place for the year under review and up to 14 June 2017.
This procedure is regularly reviewed by the Board: and b It is responsible on behalf of the Board for the Companys system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness and that it is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
This can only provide reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 June 2017 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 42 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report The remuneration for the non-executive Directors is Statement from the Chairman of the determined within the limits set out in the Companys Management Engagement & Remuneration Articles of Association.
The present limit is 250,000 in Committee aggregate per annum.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and the A binding resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013.
A non-binding Policy was put to shareholders at the Annual General Ordinary Resolution for the approval of this report will be put to Meeting held in 2014, and was passed by 97.1% of shareholders at the Companys forthcoming Annual General shareholders voting on the resolution.
The law requires the Companys Auditors to audit Directors Remuneration Policy provisions apply until the certain of the disclosures provided in this report.
Where next time that they are put to shareholders for the renewal of disclosures have been audited, they are indicated as such and that approval, which must be at intervals of not more than the Auditors audit opinion is included in its report to three years, or if the Directors Remuneration Policy is shareholders on pages 46 to 51. varied.
As approval of this policy was last granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held in The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee July 2014, shareholder approval will again be sought at considers the framework for the remuneration of the this years Annual General Meeting.
Directors on an annual basis.
It reviews the ongoing appropriateness of the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors appointment the individual remuneration of Directors by reference to the None of the Directors has a service contract.
The terms of activities and particular complexities of the Company and their appointment provide that Directors shall retire and be comparison with other companies of a similar structure and subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after size.
This is in-line with the AIC Code.
their appointment and to re-election annually thereafter.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed without A non-binding Ordinary Resolution proposing adoption of the notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Directors Remuneration Report was put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on Directors fees 24 September 2016, and was passed by 98.7% of the votes At the most recent Management Engagement & cast by shareholders voting on the Resolution.
Remuneration Committee held on 30 March 2017 it was As noted in the Strategic Report, all of the Directors are agreed that the Directors fees would be, with effect from non-executive and therefore there is no Chief Executive Officer.
1 April 2017, as follows: The Company does not have any employees.
There is therefore The Chairman of the Company, and Humphrey van der Klugt, no Chief Executive Officer or employee information to disclose.
as Chairman of the Audit Committee, will receive an annual Directors Remuneration Policy fee of 45,850 and 35,500, respectively.
Dr David Holbrook, as The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that fees the Senior Independent Director will receive an annual fee of payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the 31,070, Sarah Bates, Samuel D. Isaly and Doug McCutcheon Board on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities will each receive an annual fee of 28,970. borne by the Directors and should be sufficient to enable The Directors, as at the date of this report, all served candidates of high calibre to be recruited.
Directors are throughout the year.
The table overleaf excludes any remunerated in the form of fees payable monthly in arrears, employers national insurance contributions, if applicable.
paid to the Director personally or to a specified third party.
The Directors are entitled to be reimbursed for reasonable There are no long-term incentive schemes, share option expenses incurred by them in connection with the schemes, pension arrangements, bonuses, or other benefits performance of their duties and attendance at Board and in place and fees are not specifically related to the Directors General Meetings.
performance, either individually or collectively.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 43
