Governance Remuneration report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
It is three years since we initially sought shareholder approval for our remuneration policy so we will be seeking re-approval at the forthcoming AGM.
Performance and reward It has been a very good year for the Group.
We have delivered strong profit growth and all of our established businesses have performed well.
In particular, we have seen a rapid period of expansion in North America where there have been record partner signings and significant growth in customer numbers.
The stretching financial and non financial targets for the Group have been met with improved performance in respect of customer satisfaction.
In the UK, the cash target was not met and the target in respect of core renewable customers was only partially met.
The other UK targets were met in full.
In respect of longer-term performance, the LTIP awards granted in 2013 vested in full during the year with HomeServes TSR at the end of the performance period being 114.1% compared to the FTSE 250 Index TSR of 30.1%.
Based on TSR performance to 31 March 2017 of 91.9% compared to the FTSE 250 Index TSR of 25.7%, it is expected that the awards granted in 2014 will also vest in full.
Following Johnathan Fords appointment as COO, his salary was increased by 6.6% to 400,000.
This increase reected the change in his responsibilities and the importance of the role.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors in the year fairly reects both corporate and individual performance during the year.
The Committees activities during the year are described in more detail later in this report.
80 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 81 Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy FY18 We will be re-submitting the remuneration policy to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
The policy has been updated for a number of operational changes in respect of how it is applied but is largely unchanged from 2014.
The key operational changes since 2014 have been: The addition of a two year post vesting holding period to awards granted under the LTIP which provides a 5 year perspective to the incentive programme An increase in the shareholding requirement for Directors from 100% of salary or fees to 200% A rebalancing of the bonus objectives to increase the focus on financial measures An amendment to Richard Harpins contract to remove the entitlement to bonus in any payment in lieu of notice.
Recovery and withholding policies are in place and we are comfortable that our approach is robust and workable should these provisions ever need to be operated.
Salaries will increase by 1.5% with eect from 1 July 2017 in line with the average increase for the UK workforce and the maximum bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 100% of salary.
Bonus remains strongly linked to customer measures in line with the business strategy, subject to aordability underpins.
Details of the performance targets used and performance against them will be disclosed in next years report.
The FY18 Performance Share award for Executive Directors will be at 150% of salary.
Share awards are granted under the HomeServe 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, shareholder approval for which will expire in July 2018.
The Remuneration Committee will review the long-term incentive provision during the course of the year and consult with major shareholders prior to the introduction of a replacement plan at the 2018 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy continues to work eectively and supports our strategy as an entrepreneurial, customer focused business.
Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 This report has been prepared in accordance with the disclosure requirements for directors pay - Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Unless otherwise stated, this report is unaudited.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and as required under the regulations, will be re-submitted to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
There are no material changes to the policy from that previously approved by shareholders.
Details of minor operational changes to the policy are set out in the Chairmans letter.
Remuneration policy The Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior Executives is based on the following principles: to align rewards with the Groups financial and operational performance to ensure that remuneration, in particular, variable pay, supports the Groups strategy as a customer focused operation to promote high levels of executive share ownership to encourage a long-term focus and alignment of interest between executives and shareholders to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: xed remuneration of basic salary, pension and benets and variable performancerelated remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a significant portion of each Directors package.
The Committee is satisfied that neither the structure of the remuneration packages, with the high weighting on variable pay, nor the performance measures targeted under the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, encourages inappropriate risk taking.
The remuneration arrangements are designed so as to provide a strong alignment of interest between the Executives and shareholders and to support the growth and performance aspirations of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the current arrangements meet these objectives.
Furthermore there is a clawback provision in respect of annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards which helps to guard further against excessive risk-taking.
A risk review of the remuneration policy has been completed.
83 Governance Remuneration report continued Summary of components of Executive Directors remuneration The table below summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to Performance Operation including performance measures and strategy Period maximum limits Basic salary To reect the particular Usually Individual pay is determined by the Committee skills and experience reviewed taking into account the role, responsibilities, of an individual and to annually, with performance and experience of the individual and provide a competitive any changes market data on comparable roles.
base salary compared normally The Committee has not set a cap on the maximum with similar roles in taking eect salary level that may be oered.
However, any salary similar companies.
from 1 July increases will normally be no higher than the typical each year.
level of increase awarded to other UK employees.
Increases above this level may be oered in certain circumstances such as where an Executive Director has been promoted, has had a change in responsibility, to reect increased experience in the role, or where there has been a significant change in the size and or scope of the business.
When reviewing salary increases, the Committee also takes into account the impact of any increase to base salaries on the total remuneration package.
Details of the current salaries of the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance The annual bonus is Annual Annual bonuses are determined by reference related bonus designed to drive and determined to performance against a mix of financial, non reward the short-term after the year financial and personal objectives.
Before any bonus operating performance end.
is payable a minimum level of both customer and of the Company and financial performance must be achieved.
encourage the delivery Bonuses are based on Group performance and, if of consistently good relevant, the specic territory for which an Executive customer outcomes.
Individual performance accounts for no more than 20% of the overall bonus opportunity.
The maximum potential quantum is 100% of salary.
A minimum level of both customer and financial performance must be achieved before any bonus becomes payable.
Bonuses are payable in cash but may be voluntarily deferred by the executive into shares under the matching element of the LTIP.
84 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Element Purpose and link to Performance Operation including performance measures and strategy Period maximum limits Long-term To drive long-term Three years Awards of performance and matching shares are incentives delivery of the granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan which Groups objectives, was approved by shareholders in 2008. to align Directors The maximum limit is 200% of salary for interests with those performance share awards normally, awards of of the Companys 150% of salary are made to the Executive Directors shareholders and to and a maximum 2:1 match on voluntary investment encourage exceptional of bonus into shares.
The maximum amount of bonus that may be invested is set at 75% of the maximum bonus potential i. e. 75% of salary.
If the bonus earned is less than 25% of salary, then the executive may invest the equivalent of 25% of salary, from their own money, in shares to receive a matching award.
In determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
Dividend equivalents may be awarded on shares vesting under the Plan.
Both performance and matching awards are currently subject to the same performance conditions which are based on challenging earnings per share and relative Total Shareholder Return targets.
Performance is measured over a performance period of at least three years and, for awards granted in FY16 onwards, a two year post vesting holding period applies.
Dierent measures may be applied for future award cycles as appropriate to reect the business strategy.
Pension To provide benets N A Executive Directors may receive a pension comparable with allowance of up to 20% of salary, to be paid, subject similar roles in similar to the scheme limits, into the HomeServe Money companies.
Plan a money purchase pension scheme and or taken as a cash allowance in lieu.
Richard Harpin currently continues to participate in the Water Companies Pension Scheme a dened benefit scheme which is closed to new members.
Retirement benets under the scheme are restricted by a notional earnings cap 136,710 for FY17.
An unapproved pension contribution equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the notional cap is provided.
85 Governance Remuneration report continued Element Purpose and link to Performance Operation including performance measures and strategy Period maximum limits Other benets Provides a competitive N A Other benets include a fully expensed car or cash package of benets to alternative, fuel allowance, private health cover assist with recruitment for the individual, partner and dependant children, and retention of sta.
death in service benets up to 8 x salary and permanent health insurance.
Other benets may be provided as appropriate and Directors can access HomeServe products and services on the same terms as oered to employees.
Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon may be reimbursed.
There is no maximum limit on the value of the benets provided but the Committee monitors the total cost of the benefit provision.
All Employee To encourage N A The Executive Directors may participate in any Share Plans employee share HMRC tax-advantaged all employee share plans ownership.
oered by the Company on the same terms as other employees, subject to limits on the level of individual participation as set by HMRC.
Chairman and To attract and retain N A Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the Non-Executive Non-Executive Board.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by Directors fees Directors of the right the Remuneration Committee taking into account calibre.
the views of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman excludes himself from such discussions.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically and are set to reect the responsibilities and time commitment of the role and the experience of the individual.
Fee levels are set by reference to rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The fees for the Non-Executive directors comprise a basic Board fee, with additional fees paid for chairing a Committee or for the Senior Independent Directorship.
The Chairman receives an all encompassing fee for his role.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reect a substantial increase in time commitment.
The fees are paid monthly in cash.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors may be eligible to access HomeServe products and services on the same terms as oered to employees.
86 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Rationale behind performance metrics and targets The Remuneration Committee works hard to ensure that the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors supports the business strategy, and that the level of remuneration received is reective of the overall business performance and the returns received by shareholders.
A significant proportion of the remuneration package comes from variable pay with careful consideration given to the choice of performance metrics to ensure that the executives are not encouraged to take inappropriate risks.
Annual Bonus The annual bonus is designed to drive and reward strong short-term operating performance.
No annual bonus is paid unless a high level of performance is achieved.
The Committee reviews the annual bonus plan measures annually in order to ensure that they are aligned with the Groups strategy and so that bonus arrangements are consistent amongst the senior executive team.
Performance targets are set at the start of the financial year and are linked to the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
The customer focused culture across our business is reected in the use of non financial metrics in the annual bonus scheme.
These are balanced by the use of financial targets and personal objectives used to reect other strategic priorities.
The Committee retains the discretion to alter the choice and weighting of the metrics for future bonus cycles to reect the changing needs of the business.
The payment of any bonus is at the discretion of the Committee and bonuses will only be paid once a minimum level of customer and financial performance is achieved.
LTIP Long-term incentive awards will be granted in accordance with the rules of the shareholder approved HomeServe 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and any subsequent replacement plan and the discretions contained therein.
The performance measures for the matching and performance awards are set using a sliding scale of targets and no more than 25% of the award under each measure will vest for achieving the threshold performance hurdle.
The choice of measures may change for future award cycles, but is currently based on the following: Metric Link to strategy Earnings per share EPS This provides an assessment of the profitability of the Group over the longer-term and is strongly aligned to the execution of the business strategy.
Challenging targets are set for each award cycle based on internal and external forecasts.
Total Shareholder Return TSR This measures the total return to shareholders provided through share price appreciation and dividends.
TSR is measured relative to the performance of the FTSE 250 Index.
TSR provides a clear alignment between the value created for shareholders and the reward earned by executives.
87 Governance Remuneration report continued The Committee would consult with shareholders in advance of a change in the choice or weighting of the performance measures to be applied to future award cycles.
Under the rules of the plan, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the targets applying to existing awards in exceptional circumstances providing the new targets are no less challenging than originally envisaged.
The Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company.
Awards under the LTIP may be granted as conditional allocations or nil or nominal cost options with, or as, forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash based awards of an equivalent value to share based awards or to satisfy share based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
Awards are satisfied through a mixture of either market purchase or new issue shares.
To the extent new issue shares are used, the 2008 LTIP will adhere to a 5% in 10 year dilution limit.
A post vesting holding period was introduced for awards granted in FY16 onwards.
There will be a minimum period of five years from the date of grant of an award before shares can be sold.
To the extent that nil cost options are exercised after the three year vesting point, but before five years, the net of tax value of the vested shares must continue to be held.
The dividend roll up on unexercised nil cost options will continue until five years from grant.
This five year view provides a longer-term perspective to the incentive programme than the three year performance period.
Clawback The Committee has the power to reclaim some, or all, of a cash bonus and vested LTIP awards performance and matching in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of financial results, an error in assessment of performance, the use of misleading information and or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Pensions Richard Harpin participates on a non-contributory basis in a funded, HMRC approved occupational dened benefit scheme with benets limited to a notional capped salary which is closed to new members.
An unapproved pension contribution is paid in respect of basic salary above the cap.
The main features of the scheme are: pension at normal retirement age of one-half of final pensionable salary and a tax free lump sum of one and a half times final pensionable salary on completion of 40 years service at an accrual rate of 80ths plus 3 80ths cash life assurance of five times basic salary pension payable in the event of ill health: and spouses pension on death normal retirement at age 60.
88 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Shareholding guidelines It is the Boards policy that Directors build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to two times their annual basic salary or fee.
If the holding guideline has not been fullled at the point of exercise of any option or the vesting of any other long-term incentive award, the Director must retain 50% of the net proceeds in the Companys shares until the holding requirement is achieved.
Details of the current shareholdings of the Directors are provided later in this report.
How employees pay is taken into account The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
Our ability to meet our growth expectations and compete eectively is dependent on the skills, experience and performance of all of our employees.
Our employment policies, remuneration and benefit packages for employees are regularly reviewed.
There are some dierences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior management team compared to other employees reecting their diering responsibilities, with the principal dierence being the increased emphasis on performance related pay for the more senior executives within the organisation.
However, there are many common themes.
For example, the structure of the annual bonus, with the focus on financial, non financial and personal performance, is the same for employees at management grade and above.
Employee share ownership is encouraged and facilitated through extending participation in the LTIP to other senior leaders within the business and all eligible employees are able to participate in the HomeServe One Plan, a share incentive plan.
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on directors pay, the Committee does take into consideration the pay and employment conditions of all employees when setting the policy for directors remuneration.
In terms of comparison metrics, the Committee takes into account the average level of salary increase being budgeted for the UK workforce when reviewing the salary levels of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is also mindful of any changes to the pay and benefit conditions for employees more generally when considering the policy for directors pay.
How shareholders views are taken into account The Committee considers shareholder feedback received regarding the Remuneration report annually and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
These views are key inputs when shaping remuneration policy.
The Committee consults with shareholders when considering changes to remuneration arrangements.
89 Governance Remuneration report continued Overall balance of measures for variable pay for FY17 Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors The chart below details the composition of each Executive Directors remuneration package and how it varies at dierent levels of performance under the policy set out above.
It demonstrates the balance between xed and variable pay at threshold, on-target and maximum performance levels under the normal remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
On target target annual bonus of 80% of salary plus target LTIP awards of 90% of salary plus matching awards of 90% of salary.
Maximum maximum annual bonus of 100% of salary plus maximum LTIP awards of 200% of salary plus matching awards of 150% of salary.
Salary levels on which other elements of the packages are calculated are based on those applying from July 2017.
The value of taxable benets is based on the actual values paid in FY17 apart for David Bower where expected benets are shown.
Richard Harpin participates in a dened benefit scheme which has been valued according to BIS regulations.
The other Executives receive a pensions allowance of 20% of basic salary.
The Executive Directors may participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
The chart excludes the impact of share price growth.
David Bower will not receive a matching award in FY18 having only recently been appointed to the Board.
90 000s Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Executive Directors service agreements and policy on payments for loss of oce Under the Executive Directors service contracts up to twelve months notice of termination of employment is required by either party reduced to six months if following a prolonged period of incapacity.
Dates of current contracts are summarised in the table below: Name Date of contract R Harpin 18 January 2002 M Bennett 1 January 2013 D Bower 3 February 2017 J Ford 1 October 2012 Should notice be served, the Executives can continue to receive basic salary, benets and pension for the duration of their notice period.
The Company may require the individual to continue to full their current duties, or may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company applies a general principle of mitigation in relation to termination payments and supports the use of phased payments.
Outplacement services may be provided where appropriate, and any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice would be paid as necessary.
The service contracts also enable the Company to elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to twelve months base salary, benets and pension.
Mr Harpins contract was amended during the year to remove the entitlement to bonus as part of any payment in lieu of notice.
In the event of cessation of employment, the executives may still be eligible for a performance related bonus for the period worked.
Dierent performance measures may be set to reect changes in the directors responsibilities until the point of departure.
The rules of the LTIP set out what happens to outstanding share awards if a participant leaves employment before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse when an Executive leaves employment, except in certain circumstances.
If the Executive leaves employment as a result of redundancy, death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, transfer of employment or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be treated as a good leaver under the plan rules.
For a good leaver, any outstanding unvested LTIP awards will vest on the normal vesting date subject to an assessment of performance, with a pro-rata reduction to reect the proportion of the vesting period served.
The Committee may dis-apply the time pro-rating requirement if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the case of cessation due to death, the Committee can determine that the awards vest early.
Outstanding vested but not exercised awards can be exercised by a good leaver until the expiry of the normal exercise period or within 12 months in the case of death.
91 Governance Remuneration report continued In determining whether an Executive should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which their award may vest, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individuals departure.
The treatment of share awards on a change of control is the same as that set out above in relation to a good leaver albeit with the vesting period automatically ending on the date of the change in control.
Recruitment Policy Base salary levels will be set in accordance with HomeServes remuneration policy, taking account of the executives skills, experience and their current remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to oer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance.
Benets will generally be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation expenses and or an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
For an overseas appointment which may include the relocation of an existing Director, the benefit and pension arrangements may be tailored to reect local market practice subject to the overall maximum limits on pension set out in the policy table.
The structure of the variable pay element will be in accordance with HomeServes policy as detailed above.
The maximum permitted variable pay opportunity is 450% of salary 100% of salary bonus 200% of salary LTIP 150% of salary matching award.
However, the normal award limits are a bonus of 100% of salary, a performance share award of 150% of salary and up to a 150% of salary matching award.
In the case of the matching awards, a new recruit may be invited to invest up to 25% of salary from their own funds in the first year in order to receive a matching award in determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
LTIP awards may be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a closed period.
The performance and matching awards would be granted on a consistent basis to the other Executive Directors.
In the case of the annual bonus, dierent performance measures may be set for the first year, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they joined.
If it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer in order to secure the appointment, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
The LTIP permits the grant of restricted share awards to Executive Directors in the case of recruitment to facilitate this, although awards may also be granted outside of this scheme if necessary, and as permitted under s. 9.4.
The service contract for a new appointment would be in accordance with the policy for the current Executive Directors.
92 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be set in line with the approved policy.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment for periods of three years.
The Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman have a notice period of three months but no liquidated damages are payable.
Fees are determined by the Executive Directors within the limits set by the Articles of Association, and are based on information on fees paid in similar companies and the skills and the expected time commitment of the individual concerned.
Details of their current three year appointments are as follows: Name Date of contract J M B Gibson 1 April 2016 S David 23 November 2016 C Havemann 1 December 2015 B Mingay 1 January 2015 M Morris 27 February 2015 Outside Appointments Executive Directors may hold one outside appointment and can retain any fees received.
93 Governance Remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee Members Stella David Chairman JM Barry Gibson Mark Morris Ben Mingay All of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determined that the Company Chairman, Barry Gibson, should remain a member of the Committee taking account of the fact that he was considered to be independent on appointment and also that, as a former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, his knowledge of the development of the remuneration policy and practices at HomeServe is invaluable.
He takes no part in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the Groups overall remuneration strategy determine the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee approve the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements and oversee the operation of other share-based plans across the Group.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees t, and it periodically monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice in order to ensure that the packages provided are sucient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
The Committee aims to develop and recommend remuneration strategies that drive performance and reward it appropriately.
In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Code and the guidelines issued by institutions such as the Investment Association, ISS and the NAPF.
The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference are available on the website.
94 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The Committee has agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own eectiveness.
Advisers During the year New Bridge Street NBS, a rm of independent remuneration consultants, served as advisers to the Committee.
NBS also provided technical implementation and accounting advice in relation to the administration of the Companys share schemes.
Other than in relation to advice on remuneration, NBS has no other connections with the Company.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, the ultimate parent company of which is Aon plc.
Aon UK Ltd another Aon company provides insurance broking services to HomeServe and Aon Risk Services Ltd provides health and safety assurance services.
The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that this does not present a conict of interest as Aon UK and NBS operate entirely independently of one another.
The fees paid to NBS during the year for services to the Committee were 31,000.
The Committee has also received assistance from Richard Harpin, Group Chief Executive, Emma Thomas, Group Legal and HR Director and Anna Maughan, Company Secretary, all of whom attended meetings of the Committee as required.
No Executive took part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
Chris Havemann was appointed on 1 December 2015.
3 Benets comprise company car, fuel allowance and medical insurance.
4 Details of pension benets and contributions can be found later on in the report.
5 LTIPs vested in full in FY16 and FY17.
6 Other represents the value of any sharesave options exercised.
96 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Details of variable pay earned in the year Audited Annual Bonus For FY17, the annual bonus was based on the following stretching targets: Financial and non financial bonus targets for Richard Harpin CEO, Johnathan Ford COO and David Bower CFO % Payable at Target Weighting Threshold Threshold Stretch Actual % Payable Financial Group adjusted profit before tax 25% 25% 96.9m 102.0m 112.4m 100% measures 1 Group net debt 5% 273.4m 261.4m 100% Non financial Customer growth 25% 0% 7.024m 7.167m 7.530m 100% measures Customer satisfaction measured as 25% 8.2 8.7 100% a weighted average level of customer satisfaction across UK, US, France, 1 Spain and Italy Financial and non financial bonus targets for Martin Bennett UK CEO % Payable Target Weighting at threshold Threshold Stretch Actual % Payable Financial Group adjusted profit before tax 10% 25% 96.9m 102.0m 112.4m 100% measures UK adjusted profit before tax 15% 25% 60.0m 63.2m 63.2m 100% 1 UK net cash 5% 20.4 10.2m 0% Non financial UK customer growth 25% 0% 2.197m 2.237m 2.212m 40% measures 1 UK customer satisfaction 25% 8.2 9.3 100% No bonus was payable for below target performance.
97 Governance Remuneration report continued Personal bonus targets Objectives Weighting Outcome % Payable R Harpin Mr Harpins objectives 20% Key achievements included: 100% related to strategic Investing in Checkatrade and acquiring development, innovation Habitissimo and people development.
Agreed a joint venture with Edison Energia in Italy Developing a leadership plan and vision M Bennett Mr Bennetts objectives 20% Key achievements included: 70% related to business Integrating the Home Energy Services development, innovation, business cost eciencies and delivery Launching Leakbot, a smart home water of key IT programmes.
leak detector Establishing a cost conscious culture in the UK business D Bower Mr Bowers objectives 20% Key achievements included: 100% related to his previous role Supporting and overseeing the integration as Group Finance Director of Utility Service Partners in the US and were focused on M&A Identifying and implementing cash and activity, cash and working working capital improvements capital eciency and Overseeing and challenging the delivery of investor relations.
eciency plans J Ford Mr Fords objectives related 20% Key achievements included: 100% to M&A activity, operational Stepping up M&A activity Checkatrade, eciencies, digital activity Habitissimo, the npower domestic care and investor relations.
and maintenance contracts business and the Italian joint venture Rolling out a model to reduce network repair costs Leading global digital development Holding a successful Capital Markets Day In addition to the above, minimum customer and financial PBT performance levels had to be achieved before any bonuses could be paid.
Following the strong performance of the business in the year and in particular, reecting the robust customer and profit growth, the following bonuses were payable: Name Bonus % of salary R Harpin 555,156 100.0 M Bennett 313,399 76.1 1 D Bower 46,250 100.0 J Ford 393,750 100.0 David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
98 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Long-term Incentive Plan Details of the performance conditions for the 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards are set out below.
2013 awards vested in FY17 The 2013 LTIP awards were granted on 24 June 2013.
The performance condition for these awards was as follows: Condition Performance period Threshold target Stretch target Actual performance Vesting TSR 3 years to 24 TSR equal to TSR exceeds HomeServe 100% vesting underpinned June 2016 the FTSE 250 the index by TSR of 114.1% by underlying index 25% an average compared to financial vests of 15% p. a.
Index TSR of performance 100% vests 30.1% 2014 awards due to vest in FY18 The 2014 LTIP awards were granted on 23 June 2014.
The performance condition for these awards was as follows: Condition Performance period Threshold target Stretch target Actual performance Vesting TSR 3 years to 23 TSR equal to TSR exceeds Performance underpinned June 2017 the FTSE 250 the index by period not by underlying index 25% an average yet ended financial vests of 15% p. a. performance 100% vests Based on performance to 31 March 2017, which was 91.9% compared to the FTSE 250 Index TSR of 25.7%, the 2014 awards are likely to vest in full.
The value of the awards on vesting will be included in remuneration for FY18.
99 Governance Remuneration report continued Summary of outstanding awards Audited LTIP Details of the maximum number of shares receivable from awards made under the LTIP are as follows: Awarded Lapsed Vested 31 March 2017 during year during year during year 31 March 2016 Date granted Type of award R Harpin 289,528 289,528 24.6.
16 Matching David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
100 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The performance conditions are as follows: 2013 and 2014 awards 100% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting 2015 awards 25% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting and 75% compound annual EPS growth 15% for maximum vesting 2016 awards up to 150% of salary 25% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting and 75% compound annual EPS growth 15% for maximum vesting 2016 awards above 150% of salary compound annual EPS growth of 15% to 20% 20% for maximum vesting.
David Bower has two restricted share awards which pre-date his appointment as CFO.
These awards are not subject to performance conditions.
Further details on awards granted in the year On 1 July 2016, the following performance and matching share awards were granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIP: Performance share awards Share price used Number of to determine Award size % that vests at Date of grant shares awards % salary Face value threshold R Harpin 1.7.
16 144,094 5.27 200% 759,375 25% Matching share awards Number of Number of Share price Investment shares subject used to Shares to Matching determine % that vests Date of grant purchased Award Size Award awards Face value at threshold R Harpin 1.7.
16 28,099 2:1 match 106,034 5.26 557,739 25% 101 Governance Remuneration report continued The performance awards up to 150% of salary and the matching awards are subject to two performance conditions.
25% of the awards are subject to a relative total shareholder return performance condition that requires HomeServes TSR to match that of the FTSE 250 Index over a three year performance period for threshold vesting, increasing on a straight-line basis to Index 15% pa. for full vesting.
The other 75% of the awards are subject to an earnings per share condition that requires compound annual EPS growth of 6% to 15% per annum.
6% growth would result in threshold vesting, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting if growth of 15% per annum is achieved.
The performance awards over the remaining 50% of salary are subject to an earnings per share condition that requires compound annual growth of 15% to 20% pa. for between 0% and 100% of this part of the awards to vest.
As set out in last years report, the Committee considered that granting awards at this level was appropriate given the stretching performance conditions attached.
Major shareholders were consulted prior to the awards being made and were supportive of the proposals.
Vesting is also subject to underlying financial performance.
Further details on awards vested in the year Performance and matching awards granted on 24 June 2013 vested in full during the year.
Awards were structured as nil cost options.
Date of Share price Face value at Date of grant Type of Award exercise No of Shares at exercise exercise R Harpin 24.6.
16 75,457 5.12 386,340 102 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Save as you earn Sharesave scheme Date Granted Lapsed Exercised exercisable 31 March 2017 during year during year during year 31 March 2016 Option price Date granted from R Harpin 8,152 8,152 1.84 19.12.11 1.3.
17 David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
SAYE options are exercisable for a six month period from the date shown.
Mr Harpin and Mr Bennett exercised their options on 1 March 2017.
The share price on that day was 5.95.
Mr Bower exercised his option on 8 March 2017.
The share price on that day was 5.635.
One Plan Matching Shares Share Incentive Plan Aggregate face value of shares awarded 2 31 March 2017 Acquired during year 31 March 2016 during the year R Harpin 88 88 523.89 M Bennett 88 88 523.89 D Bower 88 26 62 149.82 J Ford 63 63 374.12 David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
Based on the acquisition price of the associated Partnership Shares.
The highest share price was 6.28 and the lowest share price was 5.64.
Participants receive one Matching Share for every two Partnership Shares they purchase.
Shares are purchased on a monthly basis.
Matching Shares are normally kept in trust for a minimum period of three years.
103 Governance Remuneration report continued Shareholding Guidelines Audited It is the Boards policy that Executive Directors build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to 200% of their annual basic salary or fee.
Details of the current shareholdings of the Directors are in the table below.
The beneficial interests of Directors who served at the end of the year, together with those of their families, in the shares of the Company are as follows: Value of shares counting towards guideline Outstanding Total holding as a Guideline 23 May 2017 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 LTIP awards 31 March 2017 % of salary met?
Includes an indirect interest of 28,500.
David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
4 Chris Havemann was appointed on 1 December 2015.
104 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors pensions Audited Members of the Water Companies Pension Scheme Details of the calculation of the single gures relating to Richard Harpins individual pension entitlements in the HomeServe plc Section of the Water Companies Pension Scheme, as required under Schedule 8 of the Large Companies Regulations and the Listing Rules, are shown below: 2017 2016 000 000 1 Accrued pension per annum at end of period 58 55 1 Accrued lump sum at end of period 174 165 Directors contributions in the period 2 Single gure of pension remuneration attributable to the Scheme 71 30 Unapproved pension contributions paid as cash 84 83 The accrued pension and lump sum gures are the leaving service benets to which the Director would have been entitled had they left the Section at the relevant date.
This is calculated as 20 times the increase in the accrued pension over the period after allowing for CPI ination plus the increase in accrued lump sum also after allowing for CPI ination, less the contributions made by the Director over the period.
Other Directors Martin Bennett, David Bower and Johnathan Ford received the following pension allowances: 2017 2016 000 000 M Bennett 82 81 D Bower 8 J Ford 76 73 David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
105 Governance Remuneration report continued Performance graph The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE-250 Index also measured by TSR for the eight years ended 31 March 2017.
This comparator has been chosen as it is a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent and it is also the one used in assessing relative TSR performance under the LTIP.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 15 31 March 16 31 March 09 31 March 10 31 March 11 31 March 12 31 March 13 31 March 14 31 March 17 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2017, of 100 invested in HomeServe plc on 31 March 2009 compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE-250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
FTSE-250 index HomeServe plc 106 Total Shareholder Return Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chief Executives remuneration The total remuneration gures for the Chief Executive during each of the last eight years are shown in the table below.
The gures include the annual bonus based on that years performance and the matching awards plus the LTIP awards based on the three year performance period ending in the relevant year.
The ESOP awards granted in 2006 lapsed as the performance conditions were not met.
Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan vested on the basis of 1.19 shares out of a maximum of 3.
2 No LTIPs were due to vest in FY11.
The ESOP awards granted in 2007 lapsed as the performance conditions were not met.
Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan vested on the basis of 2.48 shares out of a maximum 3.
Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives total remuneration excluding the value of any pension, matching awards and performance awards receivable in the year between FY16 and FY17 compared to the average for all employees of HomeServe plc.
% Change from FY16 to FY17 Salary Benets Annual Bonus Chief Executive Ocer 0.9% 6.0% 2.9% Average of other HomeServe plc employees 10.2% 19.7% 25.3% Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends, tax and retained profits: FY16 FY17 m m change Sta costs m 190.5 237.5 25% Dividends m 37.6 40.3 7% Tax m 21.0 23.9 14% Retained profits m 61.6 74.4 21% 7.8m of the sta costs gures relate to pay for the Executive Directors.
This is dierent to the aggregate of the single gures for the year under review due to the way in which the share based awards are accounted for.
The dividends gures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
107 Governance Remuneration report continued Loss of Oce Payments Audited No payments have been made for loss of oce in the year.
Application of the remuneration policy for FY18 Basic salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
Salary increases are determined taking into account pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Company and market data on salary levels for similar positions at comparable companies in the FTSE 250.
Salaries are normally reviewed in July each year unless responsibilities change.
Johnathan Fords salary was increased by 6.6% to 400,000 following his appointment as COO to reect his changes in responsibility.
This year salaries will increase by 1.5% which is in line with the average increase for the UK workforce.
The salaries for the Executive Directors eective from 1 July 2017 will therefore be as follows: Salary as at Salary as at Name of Director 1 July 2016 1 July 2017 Increase R Harpin 556,875 565,228 1.5% M Bennett 413,100 419,297 1.5% D Bower 300,000 300,000 n a J Ford 400,000 406,000 1.5% David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors As detailed in the remuneration policy, the Company aims to set remuneration for NonExecutive Directors at a level which is sucient to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the right calibre.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed periodically.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were last reviewed during FY15.
The Chairmans fee was reviewed in FY16.
Details of the current fees are detailed in the table below.
Chairmans fees 250,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 7,500 Non-Executive Directors base fee 55,000 Chair of Remuneration or Audit & Risk Committee 10,000 108 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual bonus performance targets The annual bonus plan for FY18 will operate on a similar basis to FY17 and is consistent with the policy detailed earlier in this report.
The bonus measures will be as follows: Financial measures 30% of bonus Non financial measures 50% of bonus Personal objectives 20% of bonus profit before tax 25% Customer growth 25% Up to five stretching personal objectives Net debt 5% Customer satisfaction 25% The financial and non financial measures for Richard Harpin, David Bower and Johnathan Ford will be based on Group performance.
The financial measures for Martin Bennett will be based on Group and UK performance and the non financial measures will be based on UK performance.
The Committee considers the forward looking performance targets to be commercially sensitive but more detailed disclosure will be provided in next years remuneration report.
The Committee has discretion to scale back any bonus payments if it is deemed appropriate.
Long-term incentives Performance criteria The long-term incentive plan is a mix of a Performance Share award up to 200% of salary and a Matching Share award 2:1 match on up to 75% of salary bonus invested in shares.
In line with the policy, the FY18 Performance Share award for Executive Directors will be at 150% of salary.
For Performance Share awards and Matching Share awards, the performance targets for FY18 grants will be: FY18 weighting 3 year performance target Change from FY17 75% based on EPS 6% to 15% per annum EPS growth for 25% to No change 100% vesting.
No change 25% based on relative TSR 25% vesting for TSR equal to that of the FTSE 250 Index increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for out-performance of the Index by 15% per year or more.
When setting the EPS target range for the FY18 grants, the Committee took into account internal projections and external forecasts.
Having considered these projections and forecasts, the Committee believes that the EPS targets are appropriately stretching.
109 Governance Remuneration report continued Holding period for vested shares The net of tax value of any shares vesting under the LTIP must be held for a further two years, providing a longer-term perspective to the incentive programme.
Shareholding guidelines The minimum required shareholding for each Executive Director will continue to be two times annual basic salary.
Executives will be required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of shares from vested awards until this threshold is exceeded.
Shareholding guidelines at two times their fee also applies to Non-Executive Directors.
Shareholder voting at the 2016 Annual General Meeting At last years Annual General Meeting held on 15 July 2016, the following votes from shareholders were received: Remuneration report Total number of votes % of votes cast For 257,543,646 99% Against 2,640,062 1% Total votes cast for and against excluding withheld votes 260,183,708 100% Votes withheld 2,279 Total votes including withheld votes 260,185,987 The current remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
90.45% of the votes cast were in favour of the policy.
General The market price of the Companys shares at 31 March 2017 was 5.65 2016: 4.306.
During the year the price ranged from 4.13 to 6.30.
The shares required for share options and awards under any of the long-term incentive schemes described above may be fullled by the purchase of shares in the market by the Companys Employee benefit Trust EBT.
Awards may also be fullled through newly issued shares, subject to the dilution limits within each scheme which are fully compliant with investor guidelines.
As beneciaries under the EBT, the Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the EBT which at 31 March 2017 amounted to 31,026 ordinary shares.
By Order of the Board Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2017 110
