Report on Directors Remuneration Application of malus due to Italian issues: In January we published revised results for 2014 15 and 2015 16 after our investigations into accounting irregularities in our Italian business.
The committee has recalculated the annual bonuses for the years in question and the outcome of vesting for the 2013 ISP to reflect the revised results.
This clearly showed that the payouts based on the revised results would have been lower than those actually paid at thetime.
The committee has therefore decided to exercise its discretion and apply the malus provisions in the Deferred Bonus Plan to reduce the number of shares under award, for the executive directors, plus the Operating Committee members who received payments under the bonus arrangements and or the ISP, and for the company secretary.
This action ensures the restitution of overpayments to these recipients and places them in the same position they would otherwise have been in had the awards been based on the revised results.
Further details are shown on page 133. Review of the year The committee will keep under active review whether any additional The past year has been challenging.
Although good progress has been employees awards should be adjusted.
In addition, where employees made in a number of areas unfortunately our performance has been have been dismissed or resigned as a result of our investigations into significantly affected by the accounting irregularities in our Italian the issues in Italy, shares and incentives have been lapsed in full as a business, the issues that arose in Openreach around Deemed Consent result.
and the significant challenges we faced in the UK public sector and international corporate markets.
Our adjusted EBITDA was 7,645m Looking ahead compared with our initial outlook for the year of around 7.9bn and The committee considered the base salaries of the executive our normalised free cash flow was 2,782m compared with our initial directors in the context of the UK employee population.
We have outlook for the year of 3.1bn to 3.2bn.
We have also seen a 28% agreed a 2.1% annualised pay settlement for our team members in fall in the share price over the last year.
However, the budget for increases for our managerial and professional team will be lower than this and any increases will be Outcomes for the year more targeted and discretionary.
The executive directors salaries will The committee has made a number of difficult decisions this year in remain unchanged.
light of these circumstances and these are summarised below.
Good progress has been made on the integration of the EE business 2016 17 Bonus: The annual bonus is determined by a number of and the realisation of the associated cost synergies.
As we move into factors including profit, cash flow, revenue, customer experience the second year of integration, the committee is satisfied that EE is and EE integration synergies.
The threshold targets for revenue, well embedded into the business, such that it is now business-ascustomer experience and for the EE synergies were achieved.
usual, and has elected to remove the specific integration synergy However the committee used its discretion to reduce the bonus target and increase the weighting of the earnings per share and free payable to the group chief executive and outgoing group finance cash flow targets for the annual bonus for 2017 18. director to zero.
Finally, we agreed the remuneration package for the incoming In the case of the new group finance director, Simon Lowth, who chairman, Jan du Plessis, who joins the board on 1 June and joined the company in July 2016, the committee has calculated a becomes chairman on 1 November, the details of which are set out bonus based on the formulaic outcome of the company performance on page135.
This remuneration arrangement will remain fixed for measures and an assessment of his personal performance.
resulted in an annual bonus of 38.2% of maximum for Simon Lowth.
Renewal of Remuneration Policy Throughout the year we have continued to operate within the Details of the outcome of performance against the targets for the shareholder approved Remuneration Policy.
We have conducted a 2016 17 annual bonuses for the group chief executive, the new comprehensive review of the Policy ahead of the 2017 AGM where group finance director and the outgoing group finance director are shareholders will again have the opportunity to vote on it.
The committee has concluded that the existing Policy with some 20142017 ISP vesting: The group returned below threshold minor changes, remains aligned to the business strategy and performance against all of the performance measures for the 2014 current best market practice and therefore no material changes are ISP.
This resulted in none of the shares under the award vesting.
More information on the 2014 ISP is on pages 126 to 127.
The committee continues to maintain the link between pay and 20172020 ISP award: The level of ISP award for the chief performance and remains committed to doing so in the future.
executive was reduced from 400% of salary to 350% of salary for this year in light of the share price fall over the last year.
Tony Ball Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 May 2017 122 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017
