82 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Chairmans introduction The Groups Remuneration Policy Remuneration Committee report Policy is designed to align Executive pay and incentives with the Companys goals and encourage and reward exceptional overall and individual performance.
The Policy we have operated for the past three financial years was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and our new Policy, which is presented on pages 88 to 99, is being put forward for a binding vote at the James Dean forthcoming AGM.
The Committee Chairman, believes the proposed Policy is Remuneration Committee better suited to incentivise and The primary role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and motivate management to deliver the recommend to the Board a fair reward structure that incentivises Executive Companys strategy over the next Directors to promote and deliver the Groups strategic objectives whilst three year period and this is explained maintaining stability in the management of its long term business.
in further detail in the Directors Remuneration Policy report.
Members of the Committee Our Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of our payouts during Date Tenure Meetings the financial year being reported on Member appointed years attended and how we intend to implement our new Policy for the year ended James Dean 1 10 2010 7 4 4 31 March 2018.
This part of the report is Philip Watson 25 1 2013 4 4 4 subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Andrew Varley 30 5 2013 4 4 4 Performance during 2016 17 Rosalyn Wilton 14 7 2016 1 3 3 The KPIs which underpin the Companys incentive plans are EPRA Charles Cayzer 1 10 2010 n a 1 2 earnings per share EPS, total property retired 30 September 2016 return TPR, total accounting return Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend.
TAR and total shareholder return TSR.
Tenure is measured from date of appointment to the Committee and as at 31 March 2017, The Groups decision to reposition the rounded to the nearest whole year.
portfolio towards the logistics market away from the physical retail market 2017 Policy renewal highlights to reect the change in consumer shopping patterns is proving to be An increase in the minimum shareholding requirement to 700% of salary profitable.
The long term secure income from 400% and the introduction of one year post-cessation shareholding ows from the logistics sector supported requirement of 100% of salary by our development strategy has Provision for individuals who have met their shareholding requirement to opt delivered strong financial performance out of bonus deferral and increasing the level and period of bonus deferral for which is reected in the sums paid to those individuals who have not met their requirement Executive Directors in the year.
Improved alignment with emerging corporate governance best practice The Group remains committed to through the introduction of a two year holding period post vesting for long a progressive dividend that is fully term awards covered by EPRA earnings and has clarification on the malus and clawback provisions including time horizons increased its payment this year by inwhich they may operate 3.4%to 7.5p per share.
No other material changes to the current policy EPRA earnings per share has increased by 5.1% to 8.2p and EPRA net assets per share by 1.4% to 149.8p.
Group like for like net rental income increased by This report is structured as follows: 4.6% and the Groups total property Chairmans introduction page 82 return of 7.4% outperformed the IPD Directors Remuneration at a glance page 85 Quarterly Universe Index reweighted to the Groups core assets of 5.9% by Directors Remuneration Policy page 88 150bp.
Total accounting return for the Annual Report on Remuneration page 100 year was 6.4%.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 PwC research conducted with the Annual bonus Policy renewal London School of Economics indicates The Executive Directors have delivered Increased minimum shareholding and that Executive Directors perceive successfully against a large number of new post cessation requirements a time and forfeiture risk discount operational and strategic objectives One of the core principles of the of 10-20% per annum to deferred including contracted income growth, current Policy is to create alignment share bonus awards, therefore the portfolio repositioning, diversied between shareholders and Executive increased liquidity provided by cash funding, delivery of developments Directors by encouraging high levels of payments increases the economic and strengthened relationships with Executive share ownership.
value of the remuneration and key stakeholders.
The Committee believes that the Policy therefore the competitiveness of the This strong financial and non financial has been successful in achieving this, Company without increasing headline performance has been taken into as demonstrated by the table on incentive opportunities.
account when considering the page 85 which shows how a shift in the In recognition of this change, the variable elements of remuneration.
Companys share price has a material Committee is reducing the maximum financial impact on each Executive The Committee has calculated annual bonus potential under the Policy from Director thereby ensuring they share bonuses for the Executive Directors 200% of salary to 175% of salary for the same ownership experience as to be at 89% of their respective newly appointed Executive Directors.
The maximum bonus potential for the Furthermore, this core principle has Half of the bonus will be deferred into current Executive Directors is being shaped one of the enhancements shares which vest in equal tranches retained at 165% of salary for the Chief to the new Policy where we are over three years.
Executive and 140% of salary for the increasing the minimum shareholding other Executive Directors for the next requirement for the Executive Directors LTIP vesting financial year.
Vesting of the LTIP awards granted For Executive Directors who have to Executive Directors in 2014 is This, coupled with the introduction of a not met the minimum shareholding dependent on Company performance one year post cessation share holding requirement, deferral of up to 100% over the three year period to period equal to an individuals salary of the annual bonus for three years 31 March 2017. will ensure that Executive Directors may apply, which is increased from are incentivised to deliver sustainable Performance is measured by reference 50% deferral under the current Policy.
results and will also ensure they have to TSR versus the FTSE 350 Real Estate In addition, shares will only vest at the an incentive to manage an orderly Super Sector and EPRA EPS growth.
end of a three year deferral period succession on departure.
subject to continued employment The Committee assessed performance Opt-out of Bonus Deferral rather than in three equal tranches over and based on actual EPRA EPS of 8.2p In conjunction with the increase to the three years under the current policy.
and TSR performance of 25.2%, 100% minimum shareholding requirements, of both components are expected LTIP holding period we are proposing that Executive to vest in June 2017, subject to The Committee proposes to alter Directors can opt out of annual continued service.
the LTIP to ensure performance is bonus deferral if they have met the sustainable and it is aligned with The Committee is satisfied that the increased requirement.
corporate governance best practice level of payout under the variable The key purpose of bonus deferral is by introducing a two year post-vesting incentive plans is appropriate given to link the interests of the Executive holding period during which the the performance outcomes over the Directors and shareholders in the Executive Directors cannot dispose respective performance period.
of shares, other than for tax purposes.
No discretion was exercised by All other terms of the LTIP remain the This objective will have been achieved the Committee in relation to same as under the current policy.
when Executive Directors have satisfied these outcomes.
the heightened minimum shareholder The schematic on page 84 shows the requirements and therefore any proposed operation of the LTIP for the Salary increases incremental bonus deferral will have Chief Executive under the new Policy.
The Committee approved salary an immaterial impact given the size increases of 2.0% for the Executive oftheir shareholdings.
Directors, effective from 1 June 2017 which are lower than the increases foremployees generally of 3.1%.
84 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Subject to performance Vested awards 200% of Vesting Release and continued subject to 2 year salary of awards of awards employment over 3 years post-vesting holding period Date 3 years 5 years of grant after grant after grant Recognising that the performance Following the Committees decision not Shareholder consultation risk is less with an element assessed to proceed with the annual element The Committee consulted extensively annually compared to over three years of the LTIP it determined that the LTIP with shareholders and the main the Committee proposed a reduction would continue to operate with the shareholder representative bodies, in the maximum LTIP award level from same maximum and terms as under Institutional Shareholder Services, the the current policy.
the current Policy but with the addition Investment Association and Glass Lewis of a holding period.
Following the shareholder consultation exercise and having considered the The Company is grateful for the One of the areas discussed with proposed one year targets of LTV, EPRA engagement and constructive shareholders was whether to introduce cost ratio and portfolio weighting, the suggestions made during this process an element to the LTIP where Committee decided not to proceed at the end of which the majority of performance was measured over with the one year LTIP performance shareholders indicated that they were aperiod of one year.
measure for the following reasons: supportive of the proposed Policy.
The Committee felt that whilst The Committee on reection felt the current financial LTIP metrics that these objectives could be measure the output of a successful used as part of the current annual implementation of strategy over a bonus plan within the personal xed three year time period they do James Dean objectives category Chairman of the Remuneration Committee not reect the decisions which are 31 May 2017 likely to make them sustainable such Their use within the bonus under the as business asset mix, new markets personal objectives category would and acquisitions.
allow the Committee to provide more qualitative and granular For a heavily cyclical business such as disclosure of the objectives and LondonMetric it is equally important to targets: something requested by a incentivise strategic and operational number of shareholders during the objectives which have an impact on consultation: and the long term sustainable performance of the business but may not be The removal of the annual in either the current bonus or LTIP element of the LTIP simplied the performance scorecard.
incentive proposals in line with the Committees desires and in line The nature of operational strategic with the feedback from some of targets is that they ex and change the shareholders.
over time and therefore the Committee proposal was to set and assess targets annually.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Directors Remuneration at a glance What we awarded during the financial year and why Total remuneration for Executive Directors Illustrative change in value of shares owned and Total Total outstanding 1 Salary Benets Pension Bonus LTIP 2017 2016 share awards 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Andrew Jones 510 24 77 751 1,000 2,362 2,792 522 Martin McGann 335 25 50 418 513 1,341 1,003 382 Valentine Beresford 353 25 53 441 540 1,412 1,635 379 Mark Stirling 353 25 53 441 540 1,412 1,630 328 1 Based on an illustrative swing in share price of 10p.
For reference, the highest closing share price during the year was 1.668 and the lowest closing price was 1.349.
The number of shares and share awards was calculated based on the year end total Actual total remuneration compared to the 2017 potential The following charts show the actual remuneration earned The target scenarios assume 50% payout of the maximum by the Executive Directors against the minimum, on target opportunity under the annual bonus and 25% being and maximum scenarios for the year.
threshold vesting of the LTIP.
For the purposes of comparison we have included the single gure remuneration for the year The remuneration payable to each of the Executive Directors ending 31 March 2017. is based on salaries agreed for the year under three different performance scenarios: i Minimum: ii Target: and iii A comparison of the actual remuneration earned compared Maximum.
The elements of remuneration have been to the Policy scenarios demonstrates the strong performance categorised into three components: i Fixed: ii Annual of the Company over the period with actual remuneration Bonus including Deferred Bonus : and iii LTIP.
being between the on target and maximum Policy scenarios.
Andrew Jones Martin McGann 000 000 3,000 1,600 1,393 2,456 1,400 2,500 1,200 513 2,000 1,000 1,000 773 1,283 1,500 800 128 470 1,341 250 2,362 600 1,000 845 235 422 400 500 200 410 410 410 611 611 611 0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Actual Minimum On target Maximum Actual remuneration remuneration Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Valentine Beresford Mark Stirling 000 000 1,466 1,466 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 1,200 1,200 540 540 1,000 1,000 814 814 800 800 135 135 495 1,412 495 1,412 600 600 248 248 400 400 200 431 431 431 200 431 431 431 0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Actual Minimum On target Maximum Actual remuneration remuneration Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP 86 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Annual bonus plan targets and outcomes Combining these outcomes with the personal objectives gives the % of Payout target following payouts: 000 maximum Performance % measure 25% 50% 100% Actual awarded Andrew Jones 751 89 EPRA EPS 8.01p 8.09p 8.22p 8.16p 74% Martin McGann 418 89 TPR 5.94% 6.53% 7.13% 7.40% 100% Valentine Beresford 441 89 Mark Stirling 441 89 It should be noted that the very strong actual TPR performance compared to the targets set at the beginning of the year was due to the strong performance of distribution assets and completed developments.
2014 LTIPs vesting in the year targets and outcomes The estimated number of Payout target shares vesting are as follows: Number % Performance measure 25% 100% Actual awarded Andrew Jones 658,138 TSR 12.27% 18.40% 25.23% 100% Martin McGann 337,422 EPRA EPS 7.61p 7.96p 8.16p 100% Valentine Beresford 355,320 Mark Stirling 355,320 The level of LTIP vesting in 2017 demonstrates the long term successful performance of the Company over the performance period with strong absolute earnings growth and a resulting comparative return performance in excess of the Companys direct competitors.
Shareholding of the Executive Directors % of salary 0% 250% 500% 750% 1000% 1250% Shareholding requirement 700% Andrew beneficially owned shares Jones Unvested interests over shares Shareholding requirement Martin beneficially owned shares McGann Unvested interests over shares Shareholding requirement Valentine beneficially owned shares Beresford Unvested interests over shares Shareholding requirement Mark beneficially owned shares Stirling Unvested interests over shares Proposed new minimum shareholding requirement Due to the large shareholdings of the Executive Directors, opinion, the impact on the total wealth of the Director a relatively small change in the share price would have a is more important than the single gure in any one year: material impact on their wealth.
For example, a 10p dip thisapproach encourages Directors to take a long term in share price would result in a loss in value for the Chief view of the sustainable performance of the Company: this Executive equivalent to 102% of his annual salary.
It is the is critical in a cyclical business.
The ability for the Directors to Committees view that it is important when considering gain and lose dependent on the share price performance the remuneration paid in the year under the single gure of the Company at a level which is material to their total to take a holistic view of the Directors total wealth linked remuneration is a key facet of the Companys future to the performance of the Company.
In the Committees Remuneration Policy.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 How we intend to operate the Policy next year The table below illustrates the implementation of our new Policy for the coming year.
Key elements and time period Year ending March 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Base salary Pension Benets Annual bonus Cash Deferred shares LTIP Non Executive Directors fees Key: Performance period: Vesting period: Holding period: Overview of Remuneration Policy for 2017 18 Base salary The Committee believes that the EPRA EPS target and The Committee decided to increase base salaries for the details of the personal objectives for the coming year Executive Directors by 2.0%.
The average increase across are commercially sensitive and accordingly these are the Group was 3.1% not disclosed.
These will be reported and disclosed retrospectively next year in order for shareholders to assess Base salary from Base salary from Executive Director 1 June 2017 1 June 2016 the basis for any payouts.
Andrew Jones 522,115 511,877 Under the proposed Policy, bonus deferral will not apply for the Executive Directors if they have met the new Martin McGann 342,638 335,920 shareholding guideline.
At the date of this report, each Valentine Beresford 360,811 353,736 of the Executive Directors shareholdings exceeds their Mark Stirling 360,811 353,736 minimum requirements.
LTIP Pension In line with the operation last year, awards made under the The maximum contribution into the Executive Directors LTIP in the year to 31 March 2018 will be 200% of salary for individual personal pension plan or a salary supplement in the Chief Executive and 165% for other Executive Directors.
lieu of pension will be 15% of gross base salary.
Performance Threshold Maximum1 Benets measures Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Standard benets will be provided.
See Remuneration Equal to index Equal to upper Total shareholder 37.5% Policy for further details.
quartile ranked return TSR company Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 165% of Equal to index Equal to upper Total accounting 37.5% quartile ranked salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of salary for the return TAR company other Executive Directors.
RPI plus 3% over RPI plus 8% over EPRA EPS growth 25% The performance conditions and their weightings for the three years three years annual bonus are as follows: 1 Straight line interpolation between threshold and maximum Performance measure Weighting Description of targets TSR and TAR are relative measures measured against Growth in Companys EPRA Growth in 35% the FTSE 350 Real Estate Sector excluding agencies and EPS against a range of EPRA EPS operators the Index.
Under the TSR element, there will be challengingtargets no payout if TSR is negative.
The Committee determined Growth in Companys TPR against Growth in 35% that the indices would not be weighted.
IPD Quarterly Universe Index: Full total property payout if growth is 120% of the Non Executive Directors fees return TPR Index: 50% payout if growth is 110% The current fees for the Non Executive Director roles are: of the Index: 25% payout if growth matches the Index: Straightline Chairman 250,000 interpolation between limits: Nopayout if TPR is negative Base Non Executive Director fee 47,754 Vary between individuals and Senior Independent Director additional fee 5,000 Personal 30% include portfolio management objectives Additional fee for Audit Remuneration 10,000 metrics, financial and people Committee Chairmanship management, investor relations and regulatorycompliance Additional fee for Audit Remuneration 5,000 Committee membership 88 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Directors Remuneration Policy The previous Remuneration Policy for the Group which was Is aligned to the business strategy and achievement approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM on 17 July 2014 ofbusiness goals for a period of three years is near expiry.
This section outlines Is aligned with the interests of shareholders by the new Remuneration Policy which, subject to shareholder encouraging high levels of share ownership approval, will take effect for three years from the 2017 AGM on 11 July 2017.
Attracts, motivates and retains high calibre individuals Is competitive in relation to other comparable Overview of our new Policy property companies The overriding objective is to operate a fair and transparent Remuneration Policy which motivates and retains Is set in the context of pay and employment conditions individuals of the highest calibre and rewards the delivery ofother employees of the Groups key strategic priorities, long term growth Rewards superior performance through the variable and attractive shareholder returns.
As well as motivating, elements of remuneration that are linked to performance remuneration plays a key role in retaining highly regarded individuals and needs to be competitive.
The table below outlines the key changes the Committee is proposing to ensure the Policy remains t for purpose and The principles which underpin the current Policy continue to adheres to the principles outlined.
be relevant to ensure that Executive Directors remuneration: Area Proposed change Rationale for change Minimum shareholding Increase the minimum shareholding Increasing the current shareholding requirement requirement from 400% of salary to 700% requirement will ensure the lock-in and ofsalary for existing Executive Directors.
sustained alignment between Executive Directors and shareholder interests.
Current arrangement will apply for new Executive Directors.
Post leaving shareholding Introduction of a post-leaving shareholding Ensures a focus on successful succession requirement requirement of 100% of salary lasting one planning providing an ongoing equity risk and year from the date of cessation.
is in line with emerging shareholder sentiment.
LTIP post vesting holding Introduction of a two year holding period Five year time period for long term incentives period during which individuals cannot sell shares is in line with corporate governance best other than for tax purposes.
The key purpose of bonus deferral is to link Bonus deferral Executive Directors who have met their the interests of the Executive Directors and minimum shareholding requirement may opt shareholders inthe long term.
out of bonus deferral and receive 100% of the annual bonus in cash.
The extensive shareholding already built up by For those who have not met the minimum the Executive Directors has achieved this goal requirement, deferral may be up to 100% of and therefore share price movements have the annual bonus minimum 50%.
Deferred share bonus payments, where Cash payments increase the economic operated, to vest in full after three years as value of the remuneration without increasing opposed to in three equal instalments over headline incentive opportunities.
Vesting schedule of deferred shares brought in line with market practice.
Maximum bonus Maximum bonus award in exceptional Reduced level of awards in exceptional opportunity circumstances reduced from 200% to 175% circumstances will achieve a similar perceived of salary.
value in light of the potential removal of bonus deferral.
For current Executive Directors the maximum level of award is retained at 165%.
Malus and clawback The new Policy provides clarification on the These changes provide further protection for provisions malus and clawback circumstances and the Company and shareholders and help to the time horizons within which they may ensure sustainable performance.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Table Base salary Purpose and link Provide a competitive level of xed pay to attract and retain Executive Directors of the required to strategy calibre to deliver the Groups strategy.
Level of pay reects individuals skills, seniority and experience and complexity of the role.
Operation An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment and reviewed annually with changes taking effect from 1 June or when there is a change in position or responsibility.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: Pay increases to other employees Remuneration practices within comparable property companies Any change in scope, role and responsibilities The general performance of the Company and each individual The experience of the relevant Director The economic environment Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the general rise for employees until the target positioning is achieved.
Maximum The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels are positioned in line with companies of opportunity a similar size to the Group and validated against other property companies, so that they are competitive against the market.
The Committee intends to review the comparator group each year and will add or remove companies as it considers appropriate.
In general, salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the increase for employees.
However, larger increases may be offered if there is a material change in the scope and responsibilities of the role, including significant changes in Group size and or complexity or if it is necessary to remain competitive to retain a Director.
The Company will set out in the section of the Annual Report on Remuneration headed Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
Performance The Directors are subject to an annual performance assessment, the outcome of which is taken measures account of in setting base salaries.
Pension Purpose and link Provide a competitive post-retirement benefit to attract and retain individuals.
to strategy Operation The Company provides a pension contribution allowance in line with practice relative to its comparators to enable the Company to recruit and retain Executive Directors with the experience and expertise to deliver the Groups strategy.
This allowance will be a non-consolidated allowance and will not impact any incentive calculations.
Maximum The maximum contribution is 15% of salary which is payable as a monthly contribution to the opportunity Executive Directors individual personal pension plan or taken as a cash equivalent.
Salary sacrifice arrangements can apply.
No element other than base salary is pensionable.
measures 90 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Table continued Benets Purpose and link Provide a comprehensive and competitive benefit package to aid recruitment and the retention to strategy of high quality Executive Directors.
Operation Each Executive Director receives the following: Car allowance Private medical insurance Life insurance Permanent health insurance The Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable exibility in the benets provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benets which are available to other employees on broadly similar terms may therefore be offered.
Maximum Car allowance is 20,000 per annum for each Executive Director.
opportunity Other benets are provided at the market rate and therefore the cost will vary from year to year based on the cost from third party providers.
measures Annual bonus Purpose and link Incentivise the achievement of annual financial targets consistent with the Groups business plan to strategy for the relevant financial year with particular focus on total property return TPR and EPRA earnings per share EPS as well as the delivery of agreed personal objectives.
Operation Annual performance targets are set by the Committee at the start of the financial year linked to the Groups long term strategy of growth in EPRA EPS and TPR.
At least half of the bonus will be linked to the key property and financial metrics.
Non financial targets are set to measure individual strategic performance and contribution to the achievement of portfolio management initiatives and other operational management objectives.
Executive Directors who have met their minimum shareholding requirement have the option to receive the annual bonus paid in cash.
For those who are yet to meet the minimum shareholding requirement, up to 100% of the annual bonus will be paid in deferred shares vesting after three years.
No further performance conditions will apply to these shares other than continued employment and dividend equivalents are paid out at the end of the vesting period.
The annual bonus contains malus and clawback provisions as noted on page 95.
Maximum The current maximum bonus for the Chief Executive is 165% of salary and 140% of salary for the opportunity other Executive Directors.
The payout for on target performance is 50% of the maximum and the payout for threshold performance is 25% of maximum.
In exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment, the Committee may award a bonus opportunity of up to 175% of salary.
However, the maximum bonus limit for current Executive Directors will be capped at 165%, i. e. no exceptional awards will be made to existing Executive Directors.
Performance Performance is assessed against target financial and non financial measures which may vary measures each year depending on the annual priorities of the business.
At least half of the bonus payment issubject to financial and or property performance targets.
The Committee will set challenging annual targets consistent with the Groups business strategy that are appropriately stretching, but achievable.
The Committee is of the opinion that due to the commercial sensitivity of annual targets, targets will be disclosed retrospectively.
Details of the targets set and measures applied for the current financial year can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 101 and 102.
The Committee retains discretion to make downward or upward adjustments to the amount of bonus payable resulting from the application of the performance measures if it believes that the outcomes are not a fair and accurate reection of business performance.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Table continued Long term incentives Purpose and link Incentivise and reward the delivery of long term Group performance and sustained growth in to strategy line with business strategy, thereby building a shareholding in the Group and aligning Executive Directors interests with shareholders interests.
Operation The LTIP rules were approved by the shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a conditional share award or nil cost option.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
If the Committee decides that the selected strategic metrics are commercially sensitive for future grants, details will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Awards will normally vest at the end of a three year period subject to: the Executive Directors continued employment at the date of vesting satisfaction of the performance conditions Vested awards will be subject to a further two year holding period during which Executive Directors cannot dispose of shares other than for tax purposes.
The Committee may award dividend equivalents on awards that vest.
The LTIP contains malus and clawback provisions as noted on page 95.
Maximum Annual awards with a maximum value of up to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 165% opportunity of salary for the other Executive Directors based on the market value at the date of grant set in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
25% of the award will vest for threshold performance.
100% of the award will vest for maximum performance.
There is straight line vesting between these points.
Performance For the awards to be made in the year to 31 March 2018, the following three year performance measures measures will apply to the award: Total Shareholder Return TSR exceeding the TSR of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector Index excluding agencies and operators relative Total Accounting Return TAR EPRA EPS growth versus a base target plus RPI The award to be made in the year to 31 March 2018 will be measured as follows: 37.5% on relative TSR 37.5% on relative TAR 25% on EPRA EPS growth The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards as appropriate.
No material change will be made to the type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee retains the discretion to: vary, substitute or waive the performance conditions applying to LTIP Awards if it considers it appropriate and the new performance conditions are deemed reasonable and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than the original conditions make downward or upward adjustments to the amount vesting under the LTIP award resulting from the application of the performance measures if it believes that the outcomes are not a fair and accurate reection of business performance 92 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Non Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Table Fees and benets Purpose and link To attract and retain suitably qualied Non Executive Directors by ensuring fees are competitive.
to strategy Non Executive Directors are not eligible to receive benets other than travel, hospitality related or other incidental benets linked to the performance of their duties as a Director.
Operation The Board is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non Executive Directors.
TheRemuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Chairmans fees.
Non Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional fees for chairmanship of Committees and for the Senior Independent Director.
The Company retains the exibility to pay fees for the membership of Committees.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for membership of Committees.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
Non Executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration arrangements or other benets arrangements.
Maximum The fees for Non Executive Directors and the Chairman are broadly set at a competitive level opportunity against the comparator group.
In general the level of fee increase for the Non Executive Directors and the Chairman will be set taking account of any change in responsibility.
The aggregate fee for Non Executive Directors and the Chairman will not exceed 1 million.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Non Executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Recruitment remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors Remuneration element Recruitment Policy Salary, Benets These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
and Pension Annual Bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 165% of salary 175% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
Maximum Variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted in normal circumstances is 365% Remuneration ofsalary 375% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
This excludes in both cases the value ofanybuyouts.
Buyout of incentives Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justifies the forfeited on cessation provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of of employment an Executive Directors previous employment the lapsed valued will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Relocation Policies In instances where the new Executive Director is required to relocate or spend significant time away from their normal residence, the Company may provide one-off compensation to reect the cost of relocation for the Executive Director.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case by case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences and schooling.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Service contracts and payment for loss of office Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment General The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith to discharge an existing legal obligation, or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Salary, Benets These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum andPension payment in lieu.
Cash bonus Good leaver: performance conditions will be measured at the bonus measurement date.
Bonus will normally be pro-rated for the period worked during the financial year.
Other reason: no bonus payable for year of cessation.
Discretion: the Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that an Executive Director is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders to determine whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate bonus for time.
It is the Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders Deferred share awards Good leaver: all subsisting deferred share awards will vest.
Other reason: lapse of any unvested deferred share awards.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
TheCommittee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date ofgrant to the date of cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Committee will determine whether or not to pro-rate based on the circumstances ofthe Executive Directors departure LTIP Good leaver: pro-rated to time and performance in respect of each subsisting LTIP award.
Other reason: lapse of any unvested LTIP awards.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
TheCommittee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
It is the Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to obligations 27June2012.
94 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued The following table outlines the Policy for the treatment of incentives in the event of a change of control: Change of control Remuneration element Change of control Discretion Annual bonus Pro-rated to time and The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the bonus cash performance to the to time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate the bonus date of the change for time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion to not proof control.
rate in circumstances only where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Annual bonus Subsisting deferred The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the award deferred shares share awards will vest to time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards on a change of control.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the circumstances of the change of control.
LTIP The number of shares The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the LTIP subject to subsisting awards to time.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate the LTIP awards will vest on LTIP awards for time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion a change of control, to not pro-rate in circumstances only where there is an appropriate pro-rated to time business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Strategy Link to Remuneration Policy The Committees remuneration decisions are heavily steered by the Groups strategic direction and corporate objectives, as reected by the selected performance metrics for the annual bonus and the LTIP.
The following table demonstrates how the Companys strategic KPIs are aligned to our incentive arrangements.
Further details of these KPIs can be found on pages 24 and 25 of this Annual Report.
Annual Bonus Annual Bonus Company Objective KPI cash deferred shares LTIP Deliver long term shareholder returns Total shareholder return Maximise long term total accounting return Total accounting return Maximise property portfolio returns Total property return Deliver sustainable growth in EPRA earnings EPRA earnings per share Drive like for like income growth through management actions Like for like income growth Maintain strong occupier contentment EPRA vacancy Maintain a higher than market benchmark WAULT WAULT Key remuneration objective Encourage the build-up and retention of shares In the Committees opinion it is key that the incentive arrangements operated by the Company are directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy and overall corporate objectives.
It is the Committees belief that the proposed incentive elements of the new Policy align with these objectives.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Recruitment remuneration arrangements Malus and clawback The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any The following denition of malus and clawback will apply to new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles both the annual bonus including any deferred shares and as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration the LTIP.
Malus is the adjustment of the annual bonus payments or The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more unvested LTIP awards because of the occurrence of one or than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments made under the In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee annual bonus or vested LTIP awards as a result of the will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
regarding one-off or enhanced short term or long term Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants incentive payments as well as giving consideration for the payment under the annual bonus or LTIP award and may be appropriateness of any performance measures associated effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of with an award.
shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the The circumstances in which malus and clawback could policy would apply from the date of promotion but there apply are as follows: would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration Group company package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person The assessment of any performance condition or condition concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in respect of an annual bonus payment or LTIP award was in the Remuneration Committee report for the relevant based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information financial year.
The discovery that any information used to determine the New Non Executive Directors will be appointed through annual bonus payment or LTIP award was based on error, letters of appointment and fees set at a competitive market or inaccurate or misleading information level and in line with the other existing Non Executive Action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud Directors.
Letters of appointment are normally for an initial or gross misconduct term of three years and are subject to a notice period of three months by either party.
Events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory Service contracts and payment for loss of office authority or have had a significant detrimental impact The service contracts for the Executive Directors were on the reputation of any Group company provided that reviewed and revised following the merger in 2013. the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was Service contracts are terminable by either party with notice responsible for the censure or reputational damage and of 12 months.
The Committee considers this appropriate for that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to all existing and newly appointed Directors.
the participant The Non Executive Directors do not have service contracts The following table outlines the time periods during which but are appointed under letters of appointment.
Each Non these recovery provisions may apply for each element Executive is subject to an initial three year term followed by of remuneration: annual re-election at the Companys AGM.
Remuneration The following denition of leavers will apply to both the element Malus Clawback annual bonus and the LTIP.
A good leaver reason is dened Annual bonus Up to the date Two years post as cessation in the following circumstances: cash of the cash thedate of any Death payment cash payment Ill-health Annual bonus To the end of n a deferred shares the three year Injury or disability vestingperiod Redundancy LTIP To the end of Two years post Retirement the three year vesting vestingperiod Employing company ceasing to be a Group company Transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company At the discretion of the Committee Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
96 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Shareholding guidelines Employee considerations Minimum shareholding requirement The Company applies the same principles to the In line with the Groups remuneration principles, the remuneration of all employees as it applies to the Executive Remuneration Policy places significant importance on Directors, namely that: aligning the long term interests of shareholders with those Any incentive compensation is aligned to the business of management by encouraging the Executive Directors to strategy and achievement of business goals build up over a five year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
The remuneration encourages employees to Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued become shareholders participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
The remuneration attracts, motivates and retains high In addition, Executive Directors will be required to retain at calibre individuals least 50% of the post-tax amount of vested shares from the The remuneration is competitive in relation to other Company incentive plans until the minimum shareholding comparable property companies requirement is met and maintained.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements.
The incentive elements reward superior performance through the variable elements of remuneration that are Shareholding linked to performance requirement Role % of salary The Committee is mindful of the internal pay relativities when Chief Executive 700% setting pay for the Executive Directors.
Other Executive Directors 700% Whilst the Committee did not consult directly with employees Newly appointed Executive Directors 400% on the drawing up of the new Policygiven the small size of the Company, it believes that the Board as a whole has an The Committee has set the requirement at 400% of salary for accurate picture of employees views.
the Policy period for newly appointed Executive Directors The diagram below illustrates the cascade of pay structures to reect the practical maximum that could be achieved if throughout the business for the Chief Executive, other all incentives were earned over the Policy period and paid Executive Directors and senior management for the year to in shares.
Post leaving shareholding requirement The Committee believes this demonstrates a fair and The Committee has introduced a post leaving shareholding transparent progression of remuneration throughout requirement for the Executive Directors, who must retain the Company which is in line with one of its core pay shares equivalent in value to one years salary for 12 months principles that variable performance based pay increases post cessation.
This requirement provides further long term alignment Participation with shareholders and ensures a focus on successful Other succession planning.
Executive Senior 1 Element of pay Chief Executive Directors Management Other directorships LTIP 200% of salary 165% of salary 51% of salary Executive Directors are permitted to accept external, non executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board Annual bonus 165% of salary 140% of salary 72% of salary where such appointments are not considered to have an Pension 15% of salary 15% of salary 11% of salary adverse impact on their role within the Group.
Fees earned Salary 511,877 335,920 to 96,900 to may be retained by the Director.
There were no new 353,736 182,070 appointments in the year.
Andrew Jones is a Non Executive Director of Unite Plc and earned fees of 45,225 in the year 1 Amounts for LTIP, annual bonus and pension represent the weighted to 31 March 2017. average percentage of salary Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 Statement of consideration of shareholder views Illustration of potential remuneration for Executive Directors under the new Policy Following a thorough review of the current Remuneration Policy, the Committee carried out an extensive consultation The charts below set out the potential remuneration with top shareholders and their representative bodies on receivable by the Executive Directors for the year to the changes featured in the proposed Policy.
We recognise 31 March 2018 reecting base salaries proposed for the year the heightened attention placed on executive pay this commencing 1 April 2017 as reected on page 87 and as year from both a political and corporate governance increased from 1 June 2017. perspective, and have proposed a Policy which the The minimum scenario reects xed remuneration of salary, majority of shareholders were supportive of during the pension and benets only as the other elements are linked to consultation process.
Base salary is that to be paid in the year The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue to 31 March 2018.
Benets are as shown in the single gure with the Companys shareholder base to ensure the views remuneration table for the year for the year to 31 March 2017 of all stakeholders are taken in to account in order to ensure on page 101. the correct decisions are made for the Company.
The on target scenario reects xed remuneration as above plus 50% of the maximum annual bonus entitlement and the threshold level of vesting for the LTIP awards, being 25% for each performance requirement.
The maximum scenario reects the xed remuneration plus the maximum payout of all other incentive arrangements.
Andrew Jones Martin McGann 000 000 2,528 2,500 1,600 1,463 1,400 2,000 41% 1,200 39% 1,314 1,000 1,500 799 800 20% 18% 34% 33% 1,000 600 33% 30% 622 418 400 500 200 100% 47% 25% 100% 52% 28% 0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Valentine Beresford Mark Stirling 000 000 1,538 1,538 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 39% 39% 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 839 839 800 800 18% 18% 33% 33% 600 600 30% 30% 438 438 400 400 100% 52% 28% 100% 52% 28% 200 200 0 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Fixed Annual bonus LTIP 98 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Pay at risk Elements are subject to clawback or malus for a period, over which the Company can recover sums paid or The charts below set out the target remuneration for each withhold vesting Executive Director for the year to 31 March 2018 based on whether the elements remain at risk, categorised as follows: The annual bonus is at risk for three years due to the malus and clawback provisions on any paid awards, and are also Payment is subject to continuing employment for a period at risk for one year prior to the payment of any awards due Performance conditions have yet to be satisfied to the stretching annual performance conditions.
Andrew Jones deferred shares Annual bonus 430,744 cash LTIP 261,058 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 691,802 At risk Subject to malus Performance period 520,408 Salary Subject to clawback Holding period 102,082 Pensions and benets Martin McGann deferred shares Annual bonus 239,847 cash LTIP 141,338 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 381,185 At risk Subject to malus Performance period 341,519 Salary Subject to clawback Holding period 76,480 Pensions and benets Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 LTIP awards are at risk due to performance conditions and Figures have been calculated based on target performance malus provisions applying for the first three years of an xed elements plus 50% of maximum annual bonus and 25% award.
Awards are at risk for a further two years due to the of the maximum LTIP.
The charts have been based on the holding period during which Executive Directors cannot sell same assumptions as set out on page 97 for the illustrations shares other than to settle tax obligations relating to the of the potential remuneration for Executive Directors for the award and awards are subject to clawback.
Valentine Beresford deferred shares Annual bonus 252,568 cash LTIP 148,834 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 401,402 At risk Subject to malus Performance period 359,632 Salary Subject to clawback Holding period 78,436 Pensions and benets Mark Stirling deferred shares Annual bonus 252,568 cash LTIP 148,834 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 401,402 At risk Subject to malus Performance period 359,632 Salary Subject to clawback Holding period 78,749 Pensions and benets 100 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration Meetings and activities Set out below is the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2017 which provides details of how The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
the remuneration policy was applied and how we intend to apply the proposed policy for the year to 31 March 2018.
The main activities of the Committee during the year and It is subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM tothe date of this report were as follows: and complies with UK Corporate Governance Code, Listing Rules and The Large and Medium Sized Companies and Reviewed and designed the proposed Remuneration Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations Policy to be put forward for shareholder approval at the 2013.
The areas of the report which are subject to audit have AGM on 11 July 2017 been highlighted.
Set a base EPS target for the 2016 LTIP awards and annual The role of the Remuneration Committee bonus for the year to 31 March 2017 The Committee determines Directors remuneration in Approved Executive Directors share awards under the accordance with the approved policy and its terms LTIP following the announcement of the Companys of reference, which are reviewed annually by the results for the year ended 31 March 2016 Board and are available on the Companys website at www.
Approved the Deferred Bonus Shares vesting in the year for Executive Directors The Committees responsibilities include the following: Setting and reviewing the Groups overall remuneration Assessed the performance of Executive Directors against policy and strategy targets set and determined annual bonuses for the year Determining and reviewing individual Reviewed and approved annual salary increases remuneration packages effective from 1 June 2017 and reviewed against pay increases within the wider workplace Determining and reviewing the rules for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Annual and Deferred Bonus Reviewed and approved the Chairmans annual fee Plan arrangements tobe xed at 250,000 per annum until 31 March 2018 Approving salaries, bonuses and share awards for the Reviewed its own effectiveness, Terms of Reference, Executive Directors constitution and performance The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for executive remuneration but has delegated this responsibility Reviewed and approved the Remuneration Committee to the Committee.
All Committee members are Non Report Executive Directors of the Company, which is an important pre-requisite to ensure Executive Directors pay is set by Board members who have no personal financial interest in the Company other than as potential shareholders.
The Committee meets regularly without the Executive Directors being present and is independently advised by PwC, a signatory of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and which has no connection with the Group other than in the provision of advice on executive and employee remuneration matters and taxation advice.
PwC were appointed as advisors during the financial year under review after a competitive tender process, replacing New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon plc.
Total fees paid to New Bridge Street were 25,674 2016: 103,195.
Total fees paid to PwC in respect of remuneration advice to the Committee were 77,500.
No Executive Director is involved in the determination of his own remuneration and fees for Non Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and the Chief Executive and Finance Director attend meetings by invitation but are not present when their own pay is being discussed.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board on proceedings and outcomes following each Committee meeting.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Single total gure of remuneration for each Director audited 1 2 3 4 Salary and fees Benets Pension Annual bonus LTIP Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Andrew Jones 510 500 24 24 77 75 751 583 1,000 1,610 2,362 2,792 Martin McGann 335 328 25 25 50 49 418 319 513 282 1,341 1,003 353 25 53 441 540 1,412 Valentine Beresford 301 24 103 336 871 1,635 Mark Stirling 353 346 25 25 53 52 441 336 540 871 1,412 1,630 Non Executive 320 9 329 Patrick Vaughan 320 8 328 Charles Cayzer 31 61 31 61 Andrew Livingston 43 43 62 62 James Dean 61 61 Alec Pelmore 52 51 52 51 Andrew Varley 57 56 57 56 Philip Watson 55 51 55 51 Rosalyn Wilton 65 61 65 61 1 Taxable benets include the provision of a car allowance for Executive Directors and private medical insurance 2 Pension contribution is 15% of salary excluding any salary sacrifice and may be taken partly or entirely in cash 3 Annual bonus payable in respect of the financial year ending 31 March 2017 paid 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares 4 2014 LTIP awards expected to vest in June 2017 for the performance period to 31 March 2017.
The value of the award has been calculated by multiplying the estimated number of shares that will vest, including the dividend equivalent, by the average share price for the three months to 31March 2017.
The estimated gures disclosed in the previous annual report for 2016 vesting has been re-stated to reect final vesting gures and the share price on the date of vesting The financial performance element measures growth Annual bonus outcome for the year ended in EPRA EPS and Total Property Return relative to the IPD 31 March 2017 Quarterly Universe Index re-weighted to the Companys The annual bonus performance targets set for the year to core portfolio.
In determining the base EPRA EPS target, 31 March 2017 and the assessment of actual performance the Committee looks to maintain consistency with longer achieved is set out in the tables below.
term incentive targets but is mindful of shorter term strategic Bonus awards are based 70% on the Companys financial priorities and changing market conditions.
The 2017 annual performance and 30% on the individuals contribution in bonus outcome is set out in the table below.
Financial Individual Bonus % Bonus % Total bonus objectives objectives of maximum of salary 000 Andrew Jones 61% 28% 89% 147% 751 Martin McGann 61% 28% 89% 125% 418 Valentine Beresford 61% 28% 89% 125% 441 Mark Stirling 61% 28% 89% 125% 441 Group financial targets Performance Basis of Range Maximum Actual measure Weighting calculation 0% 25% 50% 100% performance % awarded Growth in EPRA Base Base target Base target Base target EPRA EPS 35% 8.16p 74% EPS against a target plus RPI plus RPI plus RPI challenging 7.77p 8.01p plus 1% plus 2.67% basetarget 8.09p 8.22p Growth in TPR Positive TPR matches TPR is 1.1 TPR is 1.2 Total property 35% 7.40% 100% against IPD growth index times index times index return TPR Quarterly Universe 5.94% 6.53% 7.13% index for the coreportfolio The very strong actual TPR performance compared to the targets set at the beginning of the year was due to the strong performance of distribution assets and completed developments.
102 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Individual non financial targets objectives and approved a payout based on achieving 93% of the maximum level.
Executive Directors non financial targets accounted for 30% of the maximum bonus award.
Personal objectives The table below outlines the key personal objectives set and were aligned to the delivery of the Groups key strategic the Committees assessment of performance for each of objectives.
The Committee felt that all Executive Directors the Executive Directors for the annual bonus awarded in the had substantially achieved their individual personal year to 31 March 2017.
Objective Assessments Andrew Jones Portfolio focus to maximise both EPS and NAV growth 5.1% growth in EPRA EPS and 1.4% growth in EPRA NAV Recycling capital with sell down of non core and 62% invested in preferred distribution sector underperforming assets Like for like income growth of 4.6% Focus on income growth to deliver opportunities in sustainable WAULT maintained at 12.8 years and vacancy reduced to 0.4% and progressive earnings Low EPRA cost ratio of 16% Lengthen and strengthen relationships with key stakeholders: institutional shareholders, private client wealth managers, Held meetings with over 280 investors, of which 36% were private occupiers and analysts wealth managers Continue to realign the team in line with our evolving portfolio Successful equity placing which was oversubscribed at a tight strategy 1.9% discount to the previous days share price and 6.3% premium to the last reported EPRA NAV Reinforce the position of the Company as leading investor partner of choice in logistics and out of town retail Robust share price performance during period of political and economic uncertainty Focus on overhead costs to help deliver EPS growth Martin McGann Optimising the funding structure to support the real estate 130 million private debt placement diversifying lending sources strategy and increasing the average maturity Diversify available funding sources Successful equity placing of 62.8 million shares Deliver risk management corporate governance agenda to Awarded GRESB Green Star for first time and EPRA sustainability increasing satisfaction of stakeholders Gold Award Focus on income quality to deliver growth in our sustainable Enhanced board reporting of risk utilising risk dashboard earnings Growth in EPRA EPS of 5.1%, WAULT maintained at 12.8 years and Improve our ranking in the EPRA GRESB sustainability rankings vacancy reduced to 0.4% Valentine Beresford Continue to reposition portfolio with the objective of increasing Increased investment in distribution sector to 62% 2016: 54% and distribution to c. 70% and reducing retail bias to 20% over an reduced investment in out of town retail parks to 13% 2016: 20% 18-24 month period 107 million of distribution acquisitions, 97 million in urban Increase investment into the urban logistics sector logistics sector Sell down non core, ex-growth and underperforming assets 128 million of retail sales Continue to strengthen team 21 non core residential at sales Promote the Company as partner of choice with developers, Repeat business with key developers vendors and agents High proportion of off market deals reecting strong relationships with vendors, purchasers and agents Mark Stirling Portfolio focus to deliver both income and capital growth versus Developments under construction at Crawley, Dagenham and IPD benchmark Stoke of 0.6 million sq ft Continuing to increase and improve our development pipeline Strong portfolio metrics with like for like income growth of through new opportunities, new planning consents and new 4.6%, ERV growth of 3.8% and total property return of 7.4%, lettings outperforming IPD by 280bps Continuing focus on asset management to lengthen and Increased asset management activity with 69 lettings and rent strengthen our rent roll reviews Maintain our high occupancy Occupancy increased from 99.3% to 99.6% Retain our position as partner of choice amongst key retailers 70% of the logistics portfolio let to retailers and developers Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Deferred Bonus Plan One third of the deferred shares granted on 19 June 2014 and held at 31 March 2016 vested on 19 June 2016.
One third In accordance with the existing Remuneration Policy, of the deferred shares granted on 11 June 2015 and held at 50% of the annual bonuses of the Executive Directors 31 March 2016 also vested on 11 June 2016.
Further shares will be deferred and paid by way of shares in three representing one third of the June 2014, June 2015 and June equal instalments over three years, subject only to 2016 awards are expected to vest in June 2017. continued employment.
Deferred shares representing 50% of the Executive Directors Dividend equivalents accrue on shares held.
Income tax bonus entitlement for the year ended 31 March 2017 will be and employees national insurance liabilities are payable awarded in June 2017.
The shares are held in an Employee on release based on the market value of the shares at benefit trust which at 31 March 2017 held 4,501,794 shares.
Outstanding deferred bonus shares held by the Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
For 2014 this was 136.9p, for 2015 this was 168.2p, for 2016 this was 160.7p Long Term Incentive Plan Awards granted in the year to 31 March 2017 are summarised in the table below.
Share Face value of Basis of award awards Face value award % of salary Date of grant number per share 000 Andrew Jones 200% 8 June 2016 637,059 160.7p 1,024 Martin McGann 165% 8 June 2016 344,909 160.7p 554 Valentine Beresford 165% 8 June 2016 363,201 160.7p 584 Mark Stirling 165% 8 June 2016 363,201 160.7p 584 The face value is based on a weighted average price per share, being the average share price over the five business days immediately preceding the date of the award.
Awards will vest after three years subject to continued service and the achievement of performance conditions.
104 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Performance condition Vesting level TSR measured against FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector excluding agencies and operators 37.5% of Award TSR less than index over 3 years 0% 1 TSR equals index over 3 years 25% TSR between index and upper quartile ranked company Pro rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% 1 in the index TSR equal or better than the upper quartile ranked 100% 1 company in the index Total Accounting Return TAR measured against FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector excluding agencies and operators 37.5% of Award TAR less than index over 3 years 0% TAR equals index over 3 years 25% TAR between index and upper quartile ranked company Pro rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% in the index TAR equal or better than the upper quartile ranked 100% company in the index EPRA EPS growth against a base target plus RPI 25% of award Less than base plus RPI plus 3% over 3 years 0% Base plus RPI plus 3% over 3 years 25% Base plus RPI plus between 3% and 8% over 3 years Pro rata on a straight line basis between 25% and 100% Base plus RPI plus 8% over 3 years 100% 1 TSR must be positive over 3 years The adjusted EPRA EPS base target for the three year investment and development plans, gearing levels and performance periods commencing 1 April 2014, 1 April previous years results.
Targets are considered challenging 2015 and 1 April 2016 has been set at 7.0p, 7.45p and 7.77p yet achievable in order to adequately incentivise respectively.
The Groups three year financial forecast was management and are in line with the Companys strategic taken into account when setting these targets along with aim of delivering long term growth for shareholders.
consideration of strategic goals and priorities, proposed Awards expected to vest in 2017 18 in relation to the three year performance period commencing 1 April 2014 are summarised below.
Range Performance Actual measure Weighting Basis of calculation 0% 25% 100% performance % awarded Total shareholder 75% Growth in TSR against 12.27% 12.27% 18.40% 25.23% 100% return TSR FTSE 350 Real Estate Index EPRA EPS 25% Growth in EPRA EPS 7.61p 7.61p 7.96p 8.16p 100% against a challenging base target Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Estimated face 1 LTIP% Estimated value of award Director of maximum number of shares 000 Andrew Jones 100% 658,138 1,000 Martin McGann 100% 337,422 513 Valentine Beresford 100% 355,320 540 Mark Stirling 100% 355,320 540 1 The face value is based on the average share price for the three months to 31 March 2017 Outstanding LTIP awards held by the Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
1 Number of shares under award Notional Date of Face value At Granted dividend Vested At 31 March Performance Director grant on grant 1 April 2016 in year shares in year 2017 Period Andrew Jones 19.6.
2019 1 Awards granted as nil cost options During the year the Executive Directors entered into Directors shareholdings and share interests audited individual personal loan arrangements with J P Morgan The beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the International Bank Limited and granted pledges over Company held by the Directors and their families who were ordinary shares in the Company as security in connection in office during the year and at the date of this report are set with the loans.
The loans were used to repay debt secured out in the table on page 106. against various residential investment properties held There were no movements in Directors shareholdings personally.
The number of shares pledged by each of the between 31 March 2017 and the date of this report.
Directors is reected in the table on page 106.
The shareholding guidelines recommend Executive Directors build up a shareholding in the Company at least equal to four times salary.
All Executive Directors complied with this requirement at 31 March 2017 and as at the date of this report.
No Director had any interest or contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking during the year.
106 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration continued Overall Overall beneficial beneficial Total Number Interest Interest LTIP shares interests Share of shares 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 subject to Deferred as at ownership Shareholding pledged as Ordinary shares Ordinary shares performance bonus 31 March as % of guideline at 31March 1 of 10p each of 10p each conditions shares 2017 salary met 2017 Executive Directors Andrew Jones 2,897,922 2,297,455 1,902,281 417,673 5,217,876 905% Yes 2,552,922 Martin McGann 2,603,148 2,364,174 1,001,426 219,727 3,824,301 1238% Yes 2,341,585 Valentine Beresford 2,498,400 2,171,895 1,054,540 237,587 3,790,527 1129% Yes 2,084,523 Mark Stirling 1,992,062 1,665,557 1,054,540 237,587 3,284,189 900% Yes 1,523,358 Non Executive Directors Patrick Vaughan 13,277,500 13,777,500 Andrew Livingston 68,898 James Dean 20,000 20,000 Alec Pelmore 145,500 120,500 Andrew Varley 47,000 47,000 Philip Watson 264,000 214,000 Rosalyn Wilton 50,000 50,000 1 Based on the Companys share price at 31 March 2017 of 159.8p and the beneficial interests of the Directors the Company did not.
The Companys share price had not Performance graph fallen as much as the average share price of the FTSE Real The graph shows the Groups total shareholder return TSR Estate sector prior to this starting point, thereby setting a for the period from 1 October 2010, when the Company higher initial base price for this graph.
listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, to 31 March 2017, compared to the FTSE All Share REIT Total shareholder return measures share price growth Index, the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index and the FTSE 350 Real with dividends deemed to be reinvested on the exEstate Super Sector index.
These have been chosen by the dividend date.
Committee as in previous years as they are considered the The Companys total shareholder return over the period most appropriate and relevant benchmarks against which since merger in 2013 has outperformed all indices as shown to assess the performance of the Company.
The starting point required by the remuneration regulations was close to the bottom of the property cycle where a number of property companies launched rights issues while 240 200 220 180 200 160 180 160 140 140 120 120 100 100 Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr Oct Apr 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 LondonMetric Property Plc LondonMetric Property Plc FTSE All Share REIT Index FTSE All Share REIT Index FTSE 350 Real Estate Index FTSE 350 Real Estate Index FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector Index FTSE 350 Real Estate Super Sector Index Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Chief Executives remuneration table Relative importance of spend on pay The table below details the remuneration of the Chief The table below shows the expenditure and percentage Executive for the period from the Companys listing on the change in spend on employee remuneration compared to main market of the London Stock Exchange on 1 October other key financial indicators.
2017 2016 000 000 % change Annual bonus LTIP vesting 1 Total as a % of the as a % of the Employee costs 9,716 9,734 0.2 % remuneration maximum maximum 2 Dividends 45,904 43,689 5.1% Year to 31 March 000 payout opportunity 1 2017 2,362 89 100 Figures taken from note 4 Administration expenses on page 125 and are stated before any amounts capitalised and exclude share 2016 2,792 77 100 scheme costs 2 2015 1,167 78 Figures taken from note 7 Dividends on page 127 2014 1,296 100 Statement of voting at AGM 2013 166 100 At the AGM on 14 July 2016, the Annual Report on 1 Andrew Jones Remuneration was approved with votes from shareholders 2013 583 100 representing 74% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Patrick At the 2014 AGM on 17 July 2014, the Directors Remuneration 1 Vaughan Policy was approved with votes from shareholders 2012 664 100 representing 68% of the issued share capital at the time.
2 The details of these outcomes are below.
2011 323 100 1 Andrew Jones became Chief Executive and Patrick Vaughan 2016 Annual Report on 2014 Directors became Chairman on 25 January 2013 following the merger of the Remuneration Remuneration Policy Company with Metric Property Investments plc 2 Votes cast % Votes cast % For the six months from the Companys listing on 1 October 2010 to 31 March 2011 For 455,814,470 98.48 415,767,605 98.82 Against 7,035,728 1.52 4,948,010 1.18 Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration Withheld 11,500 6,977,296 The percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration from the previous year compared to the Total 462,861,698 427,692,911 average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees is as follows: Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 March 2018 % change The table on page 87 illustrates how we intend to implement Salary Taxable Annual our policy over the next financial year and gives details of and fees benets bonus remuneration payments and targets.
Chief Executive 2% 4% 29% Other employees 3% 7% 20% excluding Chief Executive James Dean The increase in the Chief Executives annual bonus this Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 May 2017 year was due to the implementation of a higher bonus opportunity of 165% as reported last year.
Payments to past Directors and for loss of office There have been no payments made to retiring Directors or for loss of office in the year.
