ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 67 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A meeting of the Committee then formally AREAS OF COMMITTEE FOCUS considered Benot Durtestes suitability for the role.
The Committee noted his: considerable existing knowledge of the NON EXECUTIVE SKILLS SUCCESSION Group and its business AND EXPERIENCE PLANNING outstanding track record as a fund manager excellent investor feedback approved status with the FCA His relationships with investors and staff were considered.
It was noted that he had recently become more visible to shareholders, who have always been very supportive of resolutions to re-elect NON EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS APPOINTMENTS him.
His wide knowledge of regulatory and corporate governance matters from membership of the boards of ICG and several of its regulated subsidiaries was also taken into account.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The Committee noted that there were a number of other good candidates available but it was not possible to tell whether they would be able to match his skill set, especially in terms of his investment record The Committee agreed that, taking REVIEW OF THE YEAR and understanding of the Group.
Even if they into account all relevant available Appointment of a new Chief Executive were able to do so over the long term there information, Benot Durteste was the remained a risk of disruption to the smooth During the year Christophe Evain informed strongest candidate.
operation of the Board and the Group in the the Committee of his intention to retire from The Committee invited Benot Durteste intervening period.
The Committee to present his proposed business plan then met to agree their approach in respect The Committee unanimously concluded for the Group.
It was noted that in previous that it should recommend that Benot was provided including a review of succession reviews Benot Durteste Durteste be offered the role of CEO, subject current strategy identifying some had been identified as a strong internal to reappointment by shareholders at the minor changes of focus and a proposed candidate for the role of Chief Executive.
AGM in July 2017. management structure.
The Committee took the following actions The Committee supported the proposed to identify other candidates and conclude business plan put forward by Benot who was the most appropriate candidate Durteste and mandated Christophe Evain for the role: to obtain feedback from the Groups fund approving a job description for the investors on Benot Durteste.
The feedback Chief Executives role was positive, noting his strong investment appointing a leading executive search background and excellent market reputation.
agency to search for available candidates At this stage, Christophe Evain felt comfortable that he would not leave the assessing the quality and breadth of the Group in a difficult position if he were to step research undertaken by the agency down and so he submitted his resignation reviewing and benchmarking the CVs to the Chairman.
provided by the agency and comparing those with the CV of Benot Durteste 68 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CONTINUED The executive search agency identified covering several tiers of management.
Appointment of new Non Executives over 20 candidates, with a number of The report considered potential Following the appointment of Kevin Parry additional realistic options being identified successors in key positions, gave details as Chairman of the Company in July 2016, via the online platform.
After a number of the proposed approach for those it was necessary for the Company to appoint of candidates were shortlisted and persons who do not have possible internal a new Chairman of the Audit Committee.
interviewed by the Chairman and other successors, and discussed how talented The Committee had been planning for Directors, the Committee unanimously individuals can be identified early in their this change and had approved a job concluded that Virginia Holmes was an careers and given an appropriate career description for the role and appointed outstanding candidate to join the Board.
The Committee has debated the a leading executive search agency to The Committee noted that Virginia has report presented to the Board and has search for available candidates, with the had an extensive executive career as an agreed that while there are no material key requirement that the candidate should investment professional and leader, and concerns in respect of executive succession, be ready to assume the role of Chairman has served on a number of other UK Boards.
further work should be undertaken to ensure of the Audit Committee.
The agency She was appointed in March 2017 and that appropriate succession planning is in conducted extensive research and provided will be a strong all round addition to the place for key individuals in executive roles a number of CVs for potential appointees.
and that talented individuals are retained.
After several candidates were shortlisted and interviewed by the Chairman and other Size, structure and composition Diversity Directors, the Committee unanimously of the Board The Committee has a standing policy on concluded that Rusty Nelligan was an The Committee intends to keep the size, the background and diversity of Board excellent candidate to join the Board: Rusty structure and composition of the Board members.
The policy provides that, prior had been an audit partner at PwC prior to his under review during the year, particularly to any appointment to the Board, the recent retirement after spending his entire in the light of the recent appointments.
Nominations Committee considers the 42 year career with the firm.
With Rustys While the new Non Executive appointments balance of skills, experience, independence lengthy audit experience and calm persona, provide more audit and investment and knowledge appropriate to the role.
he met all the criteria the Committee were experience, the Committee is keen to In considering candidates, appointments looking for: he was appointed in September ensure that the overall skill set of the Board are made with regard to a number of 2016 and immediately assumed leadership accurately reflects that of the Groups different criteria, including diversity of of the Audit Committee.
The Committee will monitor gender, background and personal attributes, The Committee noted that the retirement the balance of the Board to ensure that alongside the appropriate skills, experience of Justin Dowley in July 2016 had also left broad enough insight and expertise is and expertise.
a reduced level of investment experience available from the existing members, and The Committee seeks to ensure that long on the Board.
A leading executive search will recommend a further appointment lists and short lists of possible appointments agency was briefed to provide a shortlist if desirable.
to the Board reflect that position.
Key criteria for the search During the year the Committee also The Committee will always seek to appoint were executive experience in a leadership reviewed the time commitments of the candidate with the most appropriate role in an investment firm, experience in Non Executive Directors and concluded skills and experience regardless of their closed end funds, experience in more than that each of them is able to devote sufficient background, gender, race, marital status, one jurisdiction and prior experience on time to their role.
age, disability, religious belief or sexual UK Boards.
The search was also conducted orientation.
The Committee and the Board with an eye to increasing the diversity of the Succession planning are committed to diversity both at Board Companys Board.
A targeted advertisement level and throughout the organisation.
of the role was also placed using a specialist During the year, the Committee considered online board recruitment platform.
CEO and Non Executive succession as The Committee will consider detailed elsewhere in this report.
There was gender diversity, along with all other also an extensive amount of time spent at relevant factors, when making future Board meetings on succession planning, recommendations to the Board.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 69 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER I am pleased to report on the work of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee places high priority on ensuring the remuneration of the Groups employees in general, and of the Executive Directors in particular, reflects performance against the Groups strategic objectives During the year, the Committee and is aligned with shareholders interests.
has undertaken significant work In addition, we place importance upon to review, benchmark and update paying competitively in the context of the our remuneration policy.
The new specialist asset management industry in which we operate.
policy proposed simplifies our I recognise that our remuneration arrangements while continuing to arrangements are untypical of the wider ensure alignment with shareholders.
listed market, although they are reflective of our industry, and therefore we have PETER GIBBS increased the level of interaction with Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shareholders and shareholder bodies to ensure our arrangements are understood and stakeholder views can be better considered by the Committee on an ongoing basis.
From my perspective, in addition to the annual compensation awards to staff, the Committee considered two significant matters during the year, these being a review of the existing remuneration policy and the treatment of previously made compensation awards for the outgoing CEO.
REMUNERATION POLICY REVIEW This is the third year of our existing The following pages set out the Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy.
During the Committee Committee report and associated year we have undertaken a root and branch disclosures for financial year 2017.
The reports are review of the remuneration arrangements structured into five parts: throughout the Group.
The purpose of the review was to address some of 1.
Governance of remuneration: our scope and terms the concerns raised by shareholders, of reference page 72 including the complexity of some of the 2. Review of the year: the significant topics we arrangements, and to assess whether the addressed page 73 remuneration arrangements available to our employees remained market competitive.
Compensation summary: an overview of the The review involved a robust consideration remuneration arrangements in place page 74 of the efficacy of each of the incentive 4.
Directors Remuneration Policy page 78 arrangements and a detailed benchmarking exercise comparing all roles against relevant 5.
Annual Report on Remuneration page 87 market data.
70 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED As part of our review, we invited the views The Committee proposes to introduce During this review we also sought to simplify of our major investors and shareholder a BGP which may be made available in the remuneration arrangements.
bodies on the changes proposed to the addition to the AAP up to a maximum value We concluded that the Executive Directors Policy.
We are very grateful for their input of 3% of the five year average PICP.
This will were participating in two equity plans and we have ensured their feedback has allow short term and long term growth to that were undifferentiated other than in been reflected appropriately in the Policy be balanced.
terms of the length of the vesting period included in our Report.
The BGP will be ring-fenced and used solely and that the award of Balance Sheet Carry We will, therefore, be seeking a binding vote to fund the incentives of employees working overcomplicated their arrangements on the revised Policy and an advisory vote on new strategies in the future which are not particularly given this forms a relatively on the rest of the Remuneration Committee yet profitable.
Each approval of its use will small proportion of the awards made.
The Committee will The Committee has therefore determined be responsible for approving when and how that remuneration delivered to the Executive Revised remuneration policy much of the BGP is used and will oversee its Directors in ICG shares will all vest over five the annual award pool operation.
Disclosure of the extent of BGP years, rather than a proportion vesting over use will be made retrospectively each year three years, as is currently the case, and they Our existing policy rewards all employees in the Report.
will no longer be eligible to participate in from the annual award pool AAP.
The AAP is derived from 30% of a five year These two proposals, taken together, ensure rolling average of pre-incentive cash profit that the total percentage spend on staff When considering the arrangements PICP.
The review concluded that this reward remains at the same level, or lower, for other staff, it is evident that the Fund approach remains in the best interests of than the current policy.
Management Company Equity Plan has met shareholders for two main reasons.
First, its objectives in incentivising and rewarding using cash profit ensures that employees Revised remuneration policy delivery staff during the Groups transition from are only remunerated for sustained long being an investment company to a third party Following the review described above, term performance.
Secondly, the five year specialist asset manager.
We have therefore a new Policy has been developed with average allows us to smooth volatility and decided to discontinue this arrangement.
the following major changes impacting take a longer term view, ensuring retention Those who may previously have participated Executive Directors: of key employees throughout the cycle.
in this plan will instead receive any deferral in Individual cap on incentive the form of ICG shares vesting over the same We are not proposing to materially change awards introduced three year period.
At more junior levels we this approach.
However, the Committee Number of incentive will slightly reduce the overall percentage has proposed two amendments to the arrangements reduced of compensation deferred more in line with calculation of the AAP.
This will increase costs Period over which remuneration is The first of these is to discontinue the minimally in the first year.
deferred extended adjustment that has been made since 2014 In summary, the outcome of our review is in respect of the incentive spend for the The quantum of the Executive Directors a major simplification of the remuneration in house distribution team.
The second remuneration and the percentage of structures of both the Executive is to introduce the concept of a Business remuneration deferred into ICG shares, Directors and other employees, and the Growth Pool BGP.
We believe that it is currently between 70% and 90% of incentive strengthening of the Executive Directors in shareholders interest for management remuneration, are broadly unchanged.
to be able to balance short and long term However, we have introduced an overall considerations when assessing new individual cap on new incentive awards made business growth opportunities.
In the short each year of 6.0m for the Chief Executive term new strategies are often unprofitable Officer and 3.0m for the Chief Finance and and dilute the overall AAP available for Operating Officer.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 71 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ICG Recovery Fund 2008 contributing CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES significantly to cash profit.
We have also ARRANGEMENTS had a successful year in a number of our Five guiding principles are As noted elsewhere, Christophe Evain strategic priorities including asset raising reflected in the design of the staff will be standing down as CEO at the AGM and the deployment of capital.
The extent compensation arrangements to be succeeded by Benot Durteste.
to which these KPIs have been met, and their In recognition of Christophes outstanding alignment with the corporate strategy, is ALIGNMENT BETWEEN STAFF contribution to the business, and that described in greater detail on page 88 in the AND SHAREHOLDERS he is retiring from full time employment, Annual Report on Remuneration.
Cap of 30% of cash profit on expected the Committee have determined that his value of awards ensures long term outstanding Deferred Share Awards may We then consider the personal performance affordability with proposed BGP be retained to vest on their normal vesting including risk management and compliance to facilitate long term growth dates rather than be forfeited.
Christophes of each of the three Executive Directors outstanding PLC Equity Awards will vest over the financial year before finalising SUPPORT THE LONG TERM at the normal vesting dates in accordance their individual awards.
The executive team CORPORATE STRATEGY with the applicable rules for leavers.
have each made an excellent contribution Details of these outstanding awards made to the Groups progress this year and we Key employees rewarded by awards of to Christophe in prior years are disclosed in have provided details of the Committees PLC Equity to incentivise them to grow the Annual Report on Remuneration.
He will considerations of each of the Executive the business continue to receive payments of Balance Directors along with a summary of the Sheet Carry in respect of his vested interests awards made on pages 88 and 89 in the PROMOTE STAFF and his unvested interests will lapse.
EQUITY OWNERSHIP The majority of executive remuneration The Committee also used its discretion CONCLUSION is in the form of equity: and shareholding to determine that Christophe should retain We believe that last year we materially guidelines are in place for senior employees Third Party Carry TPC points pro-rata to improved our disclosure of Executive the invested amounts of the relevant fund at Directors KPIs and the performance TRANSPARENT the time of his departure to reward the work achieved against them: the outcome of the done to date.
The Committee determined All aspects of remuneration are clear vote on our 2016 Report would appear that the remaining portion of the TPC points to employees and openly communicated to support that view.
However, we realise should be forfeit.
to employees and shareholders that continued and improved transparency It is not proposed to increase Benots salary is a key requirement for shareholders and REWARD ON CASH or his overall remuneration beyond that set consequently we have endeavoured to The reward on cash principle ensures out in the Policy on his becoming CEO.
provide further disclosure over the process that employees are only rewarded for of determining the Executive Directors realised gains CURRENT YEAR ALLOCATIONS awards from the AAP this year, which I trust TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS you will find valuable.
As in previous years, the Committee has I shall be available at our AGM to answer any assessed the Groups performance against questions you may have and look forward specific KPIs to determine the level of to your support.
awards to be made from the AAP.
This has been a year of particularly strong Group performance with our pre-tax profit and PETER GIBBS cash profit up sharply.
During the year, our Chairman of the Remuneration Committee European business has had outstanding 24 May 2017 success with the sale of the assets in the
