Board Committee reports continued Report of the Remuneration Committee above changes, and received broad Annual Statement of the support for the proposals.
Remuneration Annual bonus measures The Committee has reweighted financial Committee Chairman measures to reflect the Companys Dear Shareholder business priorities and has simplified I am pleased to present the Directors the approach to measurement of nonremuneration report for 2016 17. financial measures.
The weightings are now 40% on EPS: 20% on PBT: This Directors remuneration report has 20% on cash flow: and 20% on nonthree parts: this, the Chairmans Annual financial measures.
Statement, a Policy Report and an Annual Report on Remuneration.
Together they All financial measures will be assessed Jeff Randall present full and transparent disclosure of on a sliding scale with corresponding the Companys intentions as to Directors payment between a threshold and Committee Chairman remuneration and how our remuneration maximum level of performance, defined arrangements operate.
Our current by the Committee at the start of each Committee membership remuneration policy was approved at financial year.
Non-financial measures will and attendance the 2014 AGM.
As such we are required be condensed to focus on the key c 5-6 Jeff Randall Chairman 4 of 4 by governing legislation to put a new strategic targets for each executive.
We Sir David Omand 4 of 4 remuneration policy to shareholders for will provide enhanced retrospective Ian Duncan 4 of 4 a binding vote at this years AGM, which disclosure of non-financial measures.
Anna Stewart 4 of 4 is set out on pages 101 to 111 below.
Removal of the DBMP Myles Lee 4 of 4 We will also be seeking an advisory vote Following shareholder feedback, and Victoire fide Margerie 4 of 4 as to your approval of this Annual as outlined in our Annual Report on Statement and the Annual Report Remuneration for 2015 16, no further on Remuneration at the AGM on matching awards will be made to 13 July 2017.
Executive Directors or any other Changes to remuneration members of the senior management team under the DBMP.
As such, we arrangements for Executive will formally remove this element Directors from the Policy Report this year.
The remuneration policy is pitched to deliver fixed remuneration at or below Holding periods for the Performance median and total remuneration capable Share Plan PSP of delivering upper quartile reward for For awards granted from 2017 a 2-year upper quartile performance.
holding period will be introduced for any shares vesting under the PSP following During the year the Committee the 3-year performance period, resulting conducted an in-depth review of in a total 5-year time horizon for longour remuneration policy for Executive term incentives.
Directors and concluded that the structure of executive remuneration Company Share Option Plan CSOP arrangements, as revised last year to We have removed the provision to remove the Deferred Bonus Matching grant a portion of awards as CSOP Plan DBMP, continues to be appropriate options, simplifying and reducing the and effective going forward.
Our updated administrative complexity of the PSP.
policy therefore remains largely The flexibility to make awards in the form unchanged, but will incorporate some of conditional shares or nil-cost options new features that ensure alignment with has been retained, in line with typical best practice and shareholders interests.
The Committee consulted with its largest shareholders during the year on the 98 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 98 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Clawback and malus New Chief Executive We have extended the malus and Archie Bethel took over as Chief Executive clawback provisions to apply to all on 1 September 2016, at which point incentive awards, including the annual the Committee reviewed his salary and bonus plan and PSP for Executive determined that a salary of 750,000 as Directors.
The circumstances in which initially indicated in last years report was malus and clawback may be applied are: appropriate.
Following the removal of the DBMP this represents a reduction in if the accounts used to determine overall total remuneration relative to his vesting levels have to be materially predecessor.
His maximum annual bonus corrected: and PSP opportunities remain unchanged actual performance being materially at 150% and 200% of salary respectively.
worse than originally believed: At the annual salary review for 2017 18, gross misconduct: and all Executive Directors salaries were the award holder leaving employment increased by 2%, broadly in line with the in circumstances in which the award average salary increase across the wider did not lapse and facts emerge which, employee population.
if known at the time, would have Remuneration outcomes for caused the award to lapse on leaving 2016 17 or caused the Committee to exercise Against the background reported in the any discretion under the plans Chairmans statement earlier in this differently.
Annual Report: Leaver provisions annual bonus payments in respect of As communicated in our announcement the year to 31 March 2017 ranged to the market on 21 July 2016, the from 44% to 65% of maximum see Committee notes that a significant page 115 for more detail : and proportion of our shareholders disagreed performance over the longer-term with the decision to disapply time prorating for the outstanding awards for our performance period from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017 is expected to result retiring Executive Directors.
As a result of this, we have removed from our policy in 26.5% vesting of the PSP awards made in 2014 and 17.0% vesting of the Committees discretion to waive time pro-rating of any incentive awards: any the matching awards made that year under the DBMP.
incentive awards paid to an Executive Director who is a good leaver will be subject to performance and time Jeff Randall pro-rating.
Committee Chairman 23 May 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Board Committee reports continued Glossary of terms As used in this Remuneration report CSOP means the 2009 Babcock Company Share Option Plan DBP means the 2009 Babcock Deferred Bonus Plan DBMP means the 2012 Babcock Deferred Bonus Matching Plan EBIT means Earnings Before Interest and Tax EPS means basic underlying Earnings per Share OCF means Operating Cash Flow as determined for management purposes PSP means the 2009 Babcock Performance Share Plan PBT means underlying Profit Before Tax PBIT means underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax ROCE means Return on Capital Employed TSR means Total Shareholder Return Remuneration Committee the Committee Terms of reference for the Committee are available for inspection on the Companys website and were reviewed during the year.
Duties of the Committee include the review of the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, as well as their specific remuneration packages.
In determining the remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and that they are rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company in a fair and responsible manner.
The composition of the Committee see page 111 and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Compliance statement This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 and provides details of the Committees membership, its deliberations on executive remuneration during the year under review and remuneration policy for the Company.
This report has been prepared by the Committee according to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and other relevant requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
In addition, the Committee has applied the principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, and has considered guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Investment Association, Institutional Shareholder Services and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association.
In accordance with Section 439 of the Act, an advisory resolution to approve this Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 13 July 2017 and, in accordance with Section 439A of the Act, a binding resolution to approve the Policy Report will be proposed at that meeting.
This report contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
The information subject to audit is so marked.
The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report that the Audited information in this report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
100 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 100 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Remuneration Policy Report Our current remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM.
As such we are required by governing legislation to put a new remuneration policy to shareholders for a binding vote at the 2017 AGM and, if approved, we will apply that new policy to payments made after that date and replace the existing remuneration policy in its entirety.
It is intended that the new Remuneration Policy will apply for three years, although the Committee may seek approval for a new policy at an earlier point if it is considered appropriate.
Key principles of the remuneration policy Objective To provide fair remuneration arrangements that allow for enhanced rewards for delivery of superior performance by allowing for the possibility of upper quartile rewards for upper quartile performance, that align Directors and shareholders interests and take account of risk.
Our policy for executives reflects a preference that we believe is shared by the majority of our shareholders to rely more heavily on the value of variable performance-related rewards, rather than on the fixed elements of pay.
The rationale is to incentivise and reward success.
Weighting towards long-term, performance-related pay The focus of our executive remuneration is, therefore, weighted towards performance-related pay with a significant element weighted towards long-term rather than short-term performance.
We believe that, properly structured and with suitable safeguards, variable, performance-related rewards are the best way of linking pay to strategy, risk management and shareholders interests.
Directors Remuneration Policy Summary of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Should be at a level that Base salaries are reviewed annually, In respect of existing Executive Directors, Business and individual is i fair and ii capable, with reference to the individuals it is anticipated that decisions on any salary performance are when taken with the role, experience and performance: increases will be guided by the increases considerations in gearing effect of salary levels at relevant comparators for the wider employee population over the setting base salary.
performance-related pay, of are considered but do not in term of this policy.
In certain circumstances delivering upper themselves drive decision-making.
including, but not limited to, a material increase quartile actual in job size or complexity, market forces, remuneration for promotion or recruitment the Committee has upper quartile discretion to make appropriate adjustments to performance.
salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive.
Latest salaries are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 119.
Pension To provide market Cash supplement in lieu wholly All the Executive Directors currently receive Not performance competitive retirement or partly of pension benefits for a cash supplement of 25% of base pay in lieu related.
ongoing service and or of all pension benefits.
membership of the groups The cash supplement payable is set having regard Defined Benefit or Defined to market practice, and in the context of the Contribution pension scheme.
other elements of the remuneration package, notably base salary.
Other than in exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate employer contributions into a defined contribution pension scheme or cash in lieu of benefit as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 25% of base salary.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Board Committee reports continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Benefits Designed to be A range of benefits are provided which may include life Benefit values vary by Not performance competitive in the market insurance: medical insurance: car and fuel benefits and role and are periodically related.
in which the individual is allowances: home to work travel and related costs if reviewed and set at a employed or to meet agreed on an individual basis or if incurred at the request level which the Committee costs effectively incurred of the Company: accommodation benefits and related considers appropriate in at the Companys request.
costs if based away from home at the request of the light of relevant market Company: Board function-related costs: and, in certain practice for the role and circumstances, cash allowances in respect of the tax individual circumstances.
charge on accommodation or travel to work benefit The cost of the benefits if incurred at the request of the Company or with its provided changes in prior approval.
accordance with market Other benefits eg relocation may be offered if considered conditions and will, appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
therefore, determine the maximum amount that would be paid in the form of benefits during the period of this policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in certain circumstances eg relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially.
102 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 102 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Annual bonus To underpin delivery of Performance targets are set at the start of the year and Maximum bonus Performance is year-on-year financial reflect the responsibilities of the executive in relation to opportunity is determined by the performance and progress the delivery of our strategy.
Committee on an towards strategic nonannual basis by At the end of the year, the Committee determines the For achievement of financial objectives, being reference to Group extent to which these targets have been achieved.
The threshold, up to 15% of structured to motivate and or divisional Committee has the discretion to adjust the outcome maximum bonus is earned: delivery against targets financial measures, eg up or down within the limits of the plan for corporate for achievement of target and achievement EPS growth, PBT, OCF, transactions, unforeseen events, factors outside up to 55% of maximum of stretching as well as the bonus is earned.
reasonable management control, changes to business outperformance, whilst achievement of nonpriorities or operational arrangements, to ensure targets mindful of achievement financial objectives.
represent and remain a fair measure of performance.
In of long-term strategy and addition, the Committee considers health and safety The financial and longer-term risks to the performance and it may reduce or cancel any annual personal strategic Company.
bonus otherwise payable if it considers it appropriate to objectives are The requirement to defer do so in light of that performance.
typically weighted a substantial part of bonus 80% and 20% of At least 40% of annual bonus payments for Executive into Company shares maximum, Directors must be deferred into awards over Company strengthens the link to respectively.
Mandatory deferred bonus awards long-term sustainable are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves before The Committee retains growth.
Malus and clawback apply to cash and discretion to vary the deferred bonus awards if the accounts used to determine financial measures the bonus level have to be materially corrected, if the and their weightings Committee subsequently comes to a view that bonus year annually, to ensure performance was materially worse than originally believed, alignment with the in the event of gross misconduct, or if the award holder business priorities for leaves employment in circumstances in which the deferred the year.
bonus did not lapse and facts emerge which, if known at Measures used for the the time, would have caused the deferred bonus to lapse 2016 17 annual on leaving or caused the Committee to exercise any bonus and proposed discretion differently.
for 2017 18 are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 115 and 119.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Board Committee reports continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise delivery of The Committee has the ability to grant nil-cost options Maximum annual PSP Vesting of PSP awards top quartile shareholder or conditional share awards under the PSP.
awards of up to 200% of is subject to continued returns and earnings base pay.
employment and The award levels and performance conditions, on which growth over the Company vesting depends, are reviewed from time to time to For each performance longer term.
performance over ensure they remain appropriate.
condition applying to a three year Long-term measures an award, 16.7% of the Participants will receive cash or shares equal to the value performance period.
guard against short-term maximum award will of any dividends that would have been paid over the steps being taken to vest for threshold 2017 18 PSP awards vesting period on awards that vest.
will be based on the The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to at the expense of future achievement of override the PSP outcome in circumstances where strict performance.
stretching EPS, TSR application of the performance conditions would and ROCE targets.
produce a result inconsistent with the Companys The Committee remuneration principles.
will review the An additional 2-year holding period will apply to Executive performance Directors vested shares before they are released.
measures, their weightings, and Malus and clawback apply to PSP awards if there is a performance targets misstatement of the Groups financial results for any period, annually to ensure if the Committee subsequently comes to a view that continued alignment performance was materially worse than originally believed, with Company in the event of gross misconduct, or if the award holder strategy.
leaves employment in circumstances in which the award did not lapse and facts emerge which, if known at the time, Details of measures would have caused the award to lapse on leaving or caused and targets used for the Committee to exercise any discretion differently.
specific PSP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 120.
All-employee plans Babcock Employee Share Plan To encourage employee Open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Participants can purchase Not performance ownership of Company Group companies.
Executive Directors are eligible shares up to the prevailing related.
HMRC limit at the time employees are invited The plan is an HMRC approved share incentive plan that to participate.
allows an employee to purchase shares through the plan trustees out of pre-tax salary which, if held for periods of The Company currently time approved by HMRC currently three to five years, are offers to match purchases taxed on a favourable basis.
made through the plan at the rate of one free The Company can match purchased shares with an matching share for every award of free shares.
Matching shares are forfeited if 10 shares purchased.
employees leave within three years of their award The matching rate is other than for good leaver reasons.
reviewed periodically, and any future offer will be bound by the prevailing HMRC limit.
104 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 104 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Approach to recruitment remuneration Recruitment policy In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on size and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the N A candidates experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension Membership of pension scheme or salary supplement on a similar basis N A to other executives, as described in the policy table.
Benefits Provision of benefits on a similar basis to other executives, as described N A in the policy table.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table, and may be pro-rated for proportion of 150% of salary year served.
Performance Share New appointees may be granted awards under the PSP on similar terms 200% of salary Plan to other executives.
All-employee plans New appointees may be granted awards under all-employee plans on As per Policy Table similar terms to other executives.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, N A the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, time to vesting and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
In order to facilitate like-for-like compensatory awards on recruitment, the Committee may avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
Other recruitment events Internal promotion When appointing a new Executive Director by way of promotion N A from an internal role, the Committee will be consistent with the policy for external hires detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments, outstanding incentive awards and or pension arrangements prior to their promotion to Executive Director, the Company may honour those arrangements: however, where appropriate, these would be expected to transition over time to the arrangements as stated above.
Non-Executive When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee or N A Director Board will structure pay in line with the existing policy, namely a base fee in line with the current fee schedule, with additional fees for fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director and Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Board Committee reports continued Changes to the approved Remuneration Policy Formally removing the matching element of the DBMP as outlined in last years annual report on remuneration Introducing a 2-year holding period on any shares vesting under the PSP Simplifying the PSP by removing the provision to grant a portion of awards as CSOP options Ensuring that clawback and malus provisions apply on a consistent basis for all incentive awards Removing the discretion for the Committee to waive time pro-rating on any incentive awards for Executive Directors who are good leavers.
Rationale for the changes above is set out in the Annual Statement.
Payments from existing awards and commitments Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award or other commitment made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this report.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used under annual bonus plans are selected annually to reflect the Groups main strategic objectives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial priorities.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
The Committee considers at length the appropriate financial conditions and non-financial objectives to attach to annual bonus awards and the financial targets to attach to share awards to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to the Groups strategic objectives and aligned with shareholders interests mindful of risk management: and ii fair by being suitably stretching whilst realistic.
The Committee believes that TSR, EPS and ROCE continue to be effective measures of long-term performance for the Company, providing a good balance between shareholder value creation and line of sight for executives.
The TSR performance measure is tested by reference to the Companys relative long-term share price performance against suitable peers.
The Committee believes that the use of relative TSR provides strong alignment with shareholders interests by incentivising management for the delivery of above-market returns.
The TSR calculation would normally use a 12-month average for opening and closing share prices adjusted for dividends paid during the period.
The Company feels that this is the most appropriate period because a 12-month average ensures both that short-term market volatility is excluded and that for each company a 12-month period will capture the impact of the announcement of results and payment of dividends.
A shorter period would not capture all these events and would not necessarily put all companies on an equal footing.
The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
The Committee believes that ROCE reinforces the focus on returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make adjustments to the calculation of short and long-term performance outcomes in circumstances where application of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
Such circumstances may include: changes in accounting standards, certain major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, corporate restructurings, acquisitions and disposals.
The Committee reviews the performance conditions for share awards prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
No material reduction in long-term incentive targets for future awards would be made without prior consultation with our major shareholders.
Differences between Executive Director and general employee remuneration The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior executives below the Board is consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
Senior executives generally participate in the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with similar performance measures applied.
The remuneration policy for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other employees reflect local market practice and seniority of each role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the policy for executives as set out above but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair having regard to such factors.
106 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 106 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Balance of remuneration for Executive Directors The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the Companys remuneration policy and implementation in 2017 18, as outlined in the Chairmans statement and later in the Annual Report on Remuneration, applied to base salaries as at 1 April 2017.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
For this reason, were the PSP shares to vest in full, actual total remuneration may exceed the value shown in the chart below.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which are not at risk.
The On-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus a pay-out of 55% of the annual bonus and threshold vesting of 16.7% of the maximum award under the PSP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay-out of all incentives.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Board Committee reports continued Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least twice the Executive Directors annual base salary three times for the CEO.
The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to retain at least half of any shares acquired on the exercise of a share award that remain after the sale of sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance triggered by the exercise and associated dealing costs until the guideline level is achieved and thereafter maintained.
The Executive Directors compliance with these guidelines is shown in the table on page 126.
Details of Directors service contracts and exit payments and treatment of awards on a change of control The following summarises the key terms excluding remuneration of the Directors service contracts or terms of appointment: Executive Directors Name Date of service contract Notice period Archie Bethel 1 April 2016 12 months from Company, Chief Executive 12 months from Director Franco Martinelli 1 August 2014 12 months from Company, Group Finance Director 12 months from Director Bill Tame 1 October 2001 amended by letters dated 12 months from Company, Chief Executive, Global Growth and Operations 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director John Davies 20 December 2012 12 months from Company, Chief Executive, Land 12 months from Director The latest service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be available at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should be capable of being terminated by the Company on not more than 12 months notice.
The Executive Directors service contracts entitle the Company to terminate their employment without notice by making a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of notice.
In these circumstances, since 2012, new Executive Directors contracts those for Archie Bethel, John Davies and Franco Martinelli allow the Company to choose to make the payment in lieu by monthly instalments and mitigation applies such that the Committee may decide to reduce or discontinue further instalments.
For contracts made before 2012 for Bill Tame only such a payment would be by way of a lump sum payment on termination.
If the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract it will have regard to all the circumstances including the scope for mitigation and the Companys interests in determining the amount of compensation, if any, payable to him in connection with that termination.
The contract for Bill Tame contains provisions which provide that within 90 days of the occurrence of a change of control of the Company, he may terminate his employment forthwith.
If he exercises this right, he is entitled, for a 12-month period, to be paid on a monthly basis his base salary plus 40% compared to a maximum entitlement under the annual bonus plan of 150% in lieu of bonus and all other contractual entitlements.
From this payment there is to be deducted any amount that he receives by way of income, if it exceeds 10% of his Babcock salary, from other sources that he would not have been able to earn had he continued in employment with the Company.
The contract for Bill Tame also provides that if the Company terminates his appointment within 12 months of a change of control, he would be entitled to a termination payment equal to 100% of annual salary plus 40% in lieu of bonus and all other benefits, subject to any additional entitlement as outlined below.
No other Executive Director has these arrangements in their service contract.
108 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 108 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Companys incentive plans contain provisions for termination of employment, where the Committee has the discretion to determine the level of award vesting.
2 Component Treatment on a change of control Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus Will be paid a time pro-rated Will be paid a time pro-rated No annual bonus entitlement, proportion, subject to proportion, subject to unless the Committee exercises discretion to treat otherwise.
performance during the year, performance during the year, generally paid immediately, generally paid at the year end, with Committee discretion to with Committee discretion to 1 treat otherwise.
Deferred bonus awards Awards may be exercised in Entitled to retain a time pro-rated Outstanding awards are forfeited full on the change of control, proportion which will generally unless the Committee exercises with Committee discretion vest at the normal vesting date, its discretion to treat otherwise.
with Committee discretion to treat otherwise.
PSP Awards generally vest Entitled to retain a time pro-rated Outstanding awards are immediately, and, for proportion, which remains subject forfeited, unless the Committee performance-related awards, to performance conditions tested exercises discretion to treat will be pro-rated for time and at the normal vesting date.
remain subject to performance exceptional circumstances, the conditions, with Committee Committee has discretion to allow discretion to treat otherwise.
immediate vesting but time prorating will always apply.
1 Treatment of bonus on a change of control for Bill Tame is also subject of the provisions outlined on page 108 and above.
2 An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they leave the Groups employment by reason of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement in each case evidenced to the Committees satisfaction.
The treatment of share awards held by Directors who leave on other grounds is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and in deciding whether and the extent to which it would be appropriate to exercise that discretion the Committee will have regard to all the circumstances.
External appointments of Executive Directors The Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman, provided that such appointments do not prejudice the individuals ability to fulfil their duties at the Group.
Any fees for outside appointments are retained by the Director.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Anticipated expiry of present Date of appointment Date of current term of appointment Name as a Director appointment letters subject to annual re-election Mike Turner Chairman 1 June 2008 20 March 2014 AGM 2017 Sir David Omand 1 April 2009 26 March 2015 AGM 2018 Ian Duncan 10 November 2010 25 January 2016 AGM 2019 Anna Stewart 1 November 2012 26 March 2015 AGM 2018 Jeff Randall 1 April 2014 6 December 2013 AGM 2017 Myles Lee 1 April 2015 3 March 2015 AGM 2018 Victoire fide Margerie 1 February 2016 3 December 2015 AGM 2019 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Board Committee reports continued The latest written terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The expected time commitment of Non-Executive Directors is set out in their current written terms of appointment.
The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment as detailed in the table above, normally for no more than three-year terms at a time: however, in all cases appointments are terminable at will at any time by the Company or the Director.
All NonExecutive Directors are subject to annual re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are shown in the table.
The appointment and re-appointment and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the Nominations Committee and Executive Directors, respectively.
The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys performance-related incentive plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance measures To attract and retain high-calibre Fee levels are reviewed against market Non-Executive Director fee None increases are applied in line Non-Executive Directors with practice from time to time by the commercial and other Chairman and the Executive Directors with the outcome of the periodic fee review.
experience relevant to the in the case of Non-Executive Director fees Company and by the Committee in respect of fees Any increases to the Nonpayable to the Chairman, with any Executive Director fee will adjustments normally being made on typically be in line with general 1 April in the review year.
Additional movements in market levels of fees are payable for acting as Chairman Non-Executive Director fees.
of the Audit and Risk, and Remuneration In the event that there is a Committees.
material misalignment with the Non-Executive Directors do not market or a change in the participate in any incentive schemes, complexity, responsibility or time nor do they receive any pension or commitment required to fulfil a benefits other than the cost of nominal Non-Executive Director role, the travel and accommodation expenses.
Board has discretion to make an Fee levels are reviewed by reference to appropriate adjustment to the FTSE listed companies of similar size and fee level.
Time commitment, level of involvement required and responsibility are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
This may result in higher fee levels for overseas Directors.
Fees for the year ending 31 March 2017 and those for the year ending 31 March 2018 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 124.
Consideration of employee views When reviewing Executive Director pay the Committee is aware of the proposals for review of remuneration of all employees.
The Committee receives regular updates on salary increases, bonus and share awards made to employees throughout the Group.
These matters are considered when conducting the annual review of executive remuneration.
The Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
The Company now formally presents a summary of its policy for remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors to the Babcock Employee Forum, which is attended by representatives from across the business operations, and will consider any feedback from that Forum.
110 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 110 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account views of leading shareholders and best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, as reflected in the changes to this Remuneration Policy, and commits to undergoing consultation with leading shareholders in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
Further detail on the votes received on the 2016 Directors Remuneration report are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 112.
Annual Report on Remuneration The Committee The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and, in accordance with provision D 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee is made up of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The membership of the Committee currently and during the year to 31 March 2017 with each member serving throughout the year as well as attendance at Committee meetings in the year is shown below.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Committee attendance Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible year to Member 31 March 2017 Jeff Randall 6 6 Sir David Omand 6 6 Ian Duncan 6 6 Anna Stewart 6 6 Myles Lee 6 6 Victoire fide Margerie 6 6 The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend meetings by invitation, as does the Group Finance Director on occasion, but they are not present when their own remuneration is being decided.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Director of Organisation and Development also attends meetings.
Advisers Kepler, a brand of Mercer which is part of the MMC group of companies, was appointed by the Committee in late 2008, following a selection process including interviewing a number of candidate firms, to provide it with objective and independent analysis, information and advice on all aspects of executive remuneration and market practice, within the context of the objectives and policy set by the Committee.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman.
A representative from Kepler typically attends Committee meetings.
Kepler also provides participant communications, performance reporting, and non-executive directors fee benchmarking services to the Company.
Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for consultants to remuneration committees of UK listed companies, details of which can be found at www.
Kepler adheres to this Code of Conduct.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work for the Committee carried out in the year under review totalled 125,190 on the basis of time and materials, excluding expenses and VAT.
The Committee reviews Keplers involvement each year and considers any other relationships that Keplers parent company has with the Company that may limit their independence.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Kepler is objective and independent and that any services provided by their parent to the Company do not impair their independence.
How often it meets In total there were 6 meetings in the year to 31 March 2017.
The Committee plans to meet at least 6 times in the year to 31 March 2018.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Board Committee reports continued Matters considered The Committee considered a number of matters during the year to 31 March 2017, including: Archie Bethels salary as the new Chief Executive from 1 September 2016 review of shareholders feedback and voting at the 2016 AGM, including review of developments in remuneration governance consulting our largest shareholders and investor bodies on proposed changes to remuneration policy the Committees terms of reference trends in executive remuneration, remuneration governance and investor views the making of share awards under the Companys share plans and the performance measures and targets to be applied the finalisation of performance targets and non-financial objectives for the 2017 18 annual bonus plan the level of vesting of PSP and CSOP awards granted in 2013 the vesting of DBP and DBMP awards made in 2014 and 2013 respectively the level of annual bonuses to be paid for the year to 31 March 2016 in light of financial and non-financial measures applying setting of annual bonus financial targets and non-financial objectives for the year to 31 March 2018 review of share ownership guidelines for senior executives pay reviews for other senior executives for the year to 31 March 2018 review of the Directors Remuneration report approval of procedure for the authorisation of Chairman and CEO expenses review of the continued appointment of the Committees independent advisers.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2016 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder vote on the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2016 AGM, and the results of the binding shareholder vote on the 2014 Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM: 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration 2014 Remuneration Policy Total number of Total number of Votes cast votes % of votes cast votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 203,814,997 57.9% 322,568,767 98.9% Against 148,069,709 42.1%3,734,746 1.1% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 351,884,706 100% 326,303,513 100% Votes withheld 43,326,745 38,245,712 Total votes cast including withheld votes 395,211,451 364,549,225 As communicated in our announcement to the market on 21 July 2016, the Committee notes that a significant proportion of our shareholders disagreed with the decision to disapply time pro-rating for the outstanding awards for our retiring Executive Directors in 2016.
As a result of this, we have removed Committee discretion to waive time pro-rating of any incentive awards: any incentive awards paid to a good leaver will be subject to performance and time pro-rating.
Additionally, the Committee has consulted with its major shareholders during the year, and will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate a better understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into the Groups executive remuneration policy.
On 1 September 2016, he was appointed as Chief Executive on a salary of 750,000. b Peter Rogers retired as a Director on 31 August 2016, figures for 2016 17 are shown for the part-year up to this date.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1 Salary: basic salary amount paid in the year.
2 Benefits in kind and cash: the value of benefits and salary supplements other than those in lieu of pensions including medical insurance, home to work travel expenses incurred at the request of the Company,  benefits, car and fuel benefits and costs in connection with accommodation.
Archie Bethel in 16 17 received 173,806 and John Davies 62,200 in connection with their accommodation costs in London, at the Companys request, to enable them to lead the business effectively.
3 Pension: for all Executive Directors the numbers above represent for each year the value of the cash supplement of 25% of salary paid to each of them: except for John Davies in 2016 for which they represent i 20 times the increase in accrued benefit over the year in question less his contributions, plus ii a cash supplement of 36,000.
4 Annual bonus cash or voluntarily deferred bonus : this is the part of total annual bonus earned for performance during the year see page 115 that is not required to be mandatorily deferred into a basic award of shares under the DBMP see page 116 and that is to be satisfied in cash.
As disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Peter Rogers was eligible for a time pro-rated annual bonus opportunity for 2016 17 of 75% of annualised salary.
5 DBMP deferred annual bonus: this is the mandatorily deferred element of the annual bonus earned for performance during the year, which will vest after three years.
6 DBMP matching awards : the market value of awards that vest on performance to i 31 March 2017: based on vesting as to 17.0% of the total award see page 118 and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2017 of 910p and ii 31 March 2016: based on vesting as to 57.8%.
Note: the difference between the 2015 16 DBMP figures in the table above and the equivalent numbers disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects truing up for the actual share price on subsequent actual vesting on 13 June 2016 of 999.5p.
7 PSP: the market value of awards that vest on performance to i 31 March 2017: based on vesting as to 26.5% of the total award see page 118 and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2017 of 910p and ii 31 March 2016: based on vesting as to 37.3%.
Note: the difference between the 2015 16 PSP figures in the table above and the equivalent numbers disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects the actual share price on subsequent actual vesting on 13 June 2016 of 999.5p.
8 Dividends: the total value of dividends accruing on long-term incentive awards other than on mandatory and voluntary deferral of bonus awards under the DBMP DBP vesting on performance to i 31 March 2017 and ii 31 March 2016, payable in cash on exercise of the award.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 113 Board Committee reports continued Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2017 and the prior year: Base fee 000 Additional fees 000 Total 000 16 17 15 16 16 17 15 16 16 17 15 16 Mike Turner 310 310 0 0 310 310 2 2 Jeff Randall 58 58 15 15 73 73 Sir David Omand 69 69 0 0 69 69 2 2 Ian Duncan 58 58 15 15 73 73 Anna Stewart 58 58 0 0 58 58 Myles Lee 62 62 0 0 62 62 1 Victoire fide Margerie 62 10 0 0 62 10 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 February 2016.
2 Relating to Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee Ian Duncan, and Remuneration Committee Jeff Randall.
Pensions None of the Executive Directors participated in a Group pension scheme or otherwise receive pension benefits from the Group for service during the year to 31 March 2017.
They instead received a cash supplement equal to 25% of their base salary in lieu of pension benefits.
There are no additional early retirement benefits.
Supplements paid in lieu of pension do not count for pension, share award or bonus purposes.
Babcock International Group Pension Scheme the Scheme audited Bill Tame was an active member of the senior executive tier of the Scheme until 30 September 2011.
Archie Bethel was an active member of the executive tier of the Scheme until 31 March 2012.
Franco Martinelli was an active member of the executive tier of the Scheme until 31 March 2015.
Whilst still members of the Scheme, Bill Tame accrued benefits at the rate of one-thirtieth, and for Archie Bethel and Franco Martinelli the rate of accrual was one-forty-fifth, of pensionable salary for each year of service, with a cash supplement on earnings over the applicable scheme earnings cap.
Until 31 March 2016, John Davies was a member of the VT Upper Section Ex-Short Brothers section of the Scheme and accrued benefits on earnings up to the scheme earnings cap at the rate of one-sixtieth of pensionable salary for each year of service.
Pension entitlements under the Scheme defined benefit for the year to 31 March 2017 are set out in the following table: Accrued pension at 31 March Normal 2 2017 retirement date 1 Director pa Archie Bethel 41,148 65 Bill Tame 53,485 60 John Davies 57,875 65 Franco Martinelli 60,750 65 1 None of the Executive Directors were active members of the scheme during the year.
2 Date from which payment can be drawn with no actuarial reduction.
Note: The figures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of death in service benefits under the Scheme, or for any benefits in respect of earnings in excess of the earnings cap.
In calculating the above figures no account has been taken of any retained benefits that the Director may have from previous employments.
Directors also benefit from life assurance cover of four times base salary.
The cost of providing that life assurance cover was: 2016 17 2015 16 Director 000 000 Archie Bethel 5 2 Bill Tame 3 3 John Davies 3 2 Franco Martinelli 3 2 114 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 114 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Annual Bonus 2016 17 Annual bonus audited For our Executive Directors annual bonus plans in 2016 17, as in previous years, a mix of financial and non-financial measures was used.
The non-financial measures were principally based on the key themes that the Committee considers to be of material importance to the continued success of the Company.
Objectives for the 2016 17 bonus were set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
The table below sets out the annual bonus plan in place for the Executive Directors and the outturn under them in 2016 17.
The figures in the table below for actual outturn exclude the effect of changes in exchange rates.
Threshold Maximum Actual Archie Franco John Peter 5 Bonus element target target outturn Bethel Martinelli Bill Tame Davies Rogers 1 EPS performance 77.2p 81.2p 79.7p Maximum potential 90% 90% 90% 90% 45% Stretching targets, with a % of salary sliding scale between Outturn % of salary 41.0% 41.0% 41.0% 41.0% 20.5% threshold and maximum Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget 390m Maximum potential 15% 15% 7.5% Group cash flow budget 392m % of salary Outturn % of salary 13.1% 13.1% 6.6% Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget 488m Maximum potential 15% 15% 7.5% 2 Group PBT budget 487m % of salary Outturn % of salary 15% 15% 7.5% 3 Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget Maximum potential 15% 15% Divisional cash flow budget % of salary Outturn % of salary 0% 0% 3 Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget Maximum potential 15% 15% 2 Divisional PBIT budget % of salary Outturn % of salary 0% 0% 4 Non-financial objectives Maximum potential 30% 30% 30% 30% 15% % of salary Outturn % of salary 28.5% 28.5% 25.5% 30% 14.3% Total Maximum potential 150% 150% 150% 150% 75% % of salary Outturn % of salary 97.6% 97.6% 66.5% 71.0% 48.8% 1 Threshold vesting is 20% of maximum for each financial bonus element except for EPS performance, where 18% of maximum vests at threshold.
In line with our policy, overall vesting at threshold is no more than 15% when all measures are taken into account.
2 Before amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The treatment of exceptional items is at the discretion of the Committee.
3 The Committee considers that the divisional budgets remain commercially sensitive given the strategic nature of some of our customers or their activities and they would also be of assistance to competitors, and will not be published.
4 Non-financial objectives were set around the strategic and risk management Themes, which for the year were Reputation: Growth: Employees: and Processes.
Within these Themes were areas of Focus and for each such area there were a number of more detailed Indicators relating to specific matters that fall within that area of Focus.
The plan did not ascribe fixed amounts of potential bonus to particular Themes, areas of Focus or Indicators as Directors are expected to respond to changing internal or external priorities, conditions or developments within those areas over the year in the best interests of the Group without being tied to or having to have regard to a set of objectives that were framed before the year got under way.
At the end of the bonus year, the Committee reviewed progress against the Themes, Focuses and Indicators overall having regard to all relevant circumstances and made an assessment as to performance on non-financial measures and what the appropriate bonus payment was for that.
The actual Indicators used in the year are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive as they tend to be ongoing in nature, relating as they do to customer relationships, specific bids, specific strategic steps or objectives, security measures and personnel matters.
By way of example, areas of focus typically include maintenance and development of reputation with customers and investors, including specified improved strategic and customer engagement and key relationship objectives: ethical training and compliance : growth relating to strategy planning and business development steps and positioning, progress against existing strategic plans, particularly for territories outside the UK, specific bidding or market targets and objectives, development and leveraging of identified strategic partnerships, organisational and management changes to support growth and strategic objectives : employee development and engagement communications and cultural initiatives, diversity: talent identification, development and succession planning initiatives and programmes: development of graduate and apprentice recruitment and development of the groups relationships with universities : process improvements development of IT strategy, upgrading and development of resource planning and management information systems, cyber-security and information assurance objectives.
Additionally, Health and Safety performance is an overriding underpin to all elements of the annual bonus scheme allowing the Committee to reduce or withhold entirely any bonus otherwise payable if it considers such performance to have been unsatisfactory.
5 As disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Peter Rogers was eligible for a time pro-rated annual bonus opportunity for 2016 17 of 75% of salary.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Board Board Com Comm mitt ittee r ee re epor port ts con s cont tinue inued d Annua Annuall bonu bonus s fide defe ferral rral iin nto to sha shar res es au aud diit te ed d To To ensure ensure that that a a subs substan tant tiia al l par part t o of f the the Dire Director ctors s annual annual b bo onu nus s iis s e ex xpose posed d t to o the the lon long ger er term term imp impa act ct of of fide decis cisiion-m on-mak akiin ng g an and d fu fur rt th he er r t to o ali alig gn n their their intere interests sts with with sh sharehol areholders, ders, 40% 40% of of any any annual annual bonu bonus s e ea ar rn ned ed by by E Ex xec ecu ut tive ive Dire Direc ct tor ors s a an nd d o ot ther her senior senior exe exec cu ut tives ives mu must st be be fide def fe er rr re ed d in into to Co Compan mpany y sh shar are es s b by y me mean ans s of of an an a awar ward d of of n niill-cos cost t o op ption tions s.. Man Mand da atoril torily y defe deferred rred annu annual al bonu bonus s a aw war ards ds B Ba as siic c A Aw war ards ds are are su sub bj je ec ct t t to o p po ot te en nt tiia all f fo or rf fe eiitu tur re e iif f t th he e h ho olld fide er r lle ea av five es s b be ef fo or re e t th he e a aw wa ard rds s v five est st other other th than an b by y re reason ason of of dea death, th, di disa sabili bility, ty, redun redund dancy, ancy, retiremen retirement t o or r the comp the compan any y or or busine business ss in in whi whic ch h they they a ar re e emplo employ yed ed c ce ea as sin ing g to b to be e par part t of of the the Grou Group.
p. L Lo on ng g- -t te er rm m i in nc ce en nt ti iv five e sc sch he em me es s P PS SP P PSP PSP award awards s m ma ade fide iin n 201 2016 17 6 17 a aud udited ited Face Face va value lue % % r re ece ceiiv va ab blle e f fo or r E En nd o d of f pe perf rfo or rma man nc ce e 1 1 2 2 Dire Direc ct tor or Basis Basis N Number umber o of f Sha Shar re es s Face v Face va alue lue % o % of f sa salary lary thr thre es sh hol old p d pe erfo rfor rm ma ance nce per periiod od Archie Archie Be Bethel thel As As per per the the P Po oli licy.
7% 31 31 Ma Mar rc ch h 2019 2019 3 3 Peter Peter Rog Roger ers s 22 22,060, 060 21 219 9, 938 938 33 33% % 16 16.. 7% 7% 31 31 Ma Mar rc ch h 2019 2019 1 1 B Ba as se ed f d fo or r D Diire rect cto or rs on s on 3 d 3 da ay y ave aver rag age e s sh ha ar re e pr priice ce o of f 99 997 7p p at at ti tim me e o of f gr grant ant.. E Ex xer ercise cise pr price is ice is nil be nil because aw cause awards a ards ar re nile nil-cos cost t op opt tiio on ns.
s. 2 2 E Ex xpre pres ss se ed a d as s a pe a perc rcen ent ta age ge of of s sa alla ar ry y a at t t th he d e da ate o te of f t th he e aw awa ar rd d 15 15 J Ju une 2 ne 20 01 16 6.. 3 3 Pet Pete er r Rogers s Rogers st tepp eppe ed down d down f fr rom om th the Bo e Board on ard on 3 31 1 Augus August t 20 2016.
Hi His s 201 2016 P 6 PS SP P a aw ward ard is is p pr roo-ra rated ted to to re ref fllec ect t th the p e pr ropo opor rt tiion o on of f the the p pe erf rfor orman manc ce pe e peri riod od he h he ha as s s se erve rved d..
In In the the fo form rm o of f n niill- -cos cost t op options tions..
The The perform performa an nc ce e tar targ get ets s th that at wer were e at attache tached d to to th these ese awar awards ds sp splliit t equ equa all lly y betwee between n TSR TSR performa performan nc ce e rel rela ati tive five to to the the peer peer gr group, oup, E EP PS S g gr ro ow wth th a an nd d R RO OC CE E a ar re e iillllu us str tra ate ted d in in the the ch charts arts bel belo ow: w: EPS element ROCE element TSR element 33% of award 33% of award 33% of award 100% 100% 100% 75% 75% 75% 50% 50% 50% 25% 25% 25% 16.7% 16.7% 16.7% 0% 0% 0% 4% 11% 12% 15% Median Median 9% Babcocks three-year annualised EPS growth % p. a. Babcocks three-year average ROCE % Babcocks three-year TSR out-performance of FTSE 350 Median % p. a.
Not Note e: : TSR TSR compara comparat tors a ors ar re t e the compani he companie es comp s compris rise ed d in in th the e FTSE FTSE 350 350 e exc xcludin luding g inv inve estm stme ent nt t tr rusts usts an and f d financial inancial s se er rv vic ices es c co ompanies mpanies.. Th Thr re eshol shold v d five es st ting ing 1 16.
6.7% 7% of of t this his el elem emen ent t fo for r th the e EP EPS S el elem emen ent t wa was s s se et t a at t g gro row wt th h o of 4 f 4% % pe per r a an nn nu um m a an nd m d ma axim ximu um m v five es sti tin ng a g at t gro grow wth th o of f 1 11 1% % pe per a r annu nnum m.. W We e b be eli liev eve e tha that t g gro row wth th o of f 1 11 1% % w wo ou ulld d r re ep pre res se en nt t exc exce ep pt tio iona nall p pe er rf fo or rm ma ance nce.. Fo For r th the co e com mp pa ar ra at tiiv five e T TS SR R el elem emen ent, t, t th hres resh ho olld d v five es st ting 1 ing 16.
6.7% 7% o of f this this e elem lemen ent wo t wou ulld be d be fo for pe r perfo rfor rm ma ance in nce in l liin ne e w wiith th th the m e me edian dian of of th the e FT FTS SE E 35 350 0 exc excludin luding i g in nv five estm stme ent nt trus trusts a ts an nd d financ financia ial ser l serv vic ices compan es companies ies an and max d maximum v imum five est stiing woul ng would b d be e fo for r 9% 9% pa out pa outp perfo erformanc rmance e of of the med the median, ian, repr represent esenting u ing up pp pe er r qua quar rt til ile e pe perf rfo or rmance.
F Fo or r t th he e R RO OC CE E e elle em ment, ent, t th he e tar targ get et f fo or r maximum five maximum vest stin ing o g of f th these awa ese awar rds was s ds was se et a t at t 15 15% an % and fo d for r th thresho resholld d v five esti stin ng at g at 1 12 2% %.. 1 11 16 6 B Ba ab bc co ock ck I In nt te er rn na at tiio on na all G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 17 7 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 116 % of EPS element % of ROCE element % of TRS element Strategic report 1 Board Board Com Comm mitt ittee r ee re epor port ts con s cont tinue inued d Directors report 80 Financials 142 Annua Annuall bonu bonus s fide defe ferral rral iin nto to sha shar res es au aud diit te ed d Deferred Bonus Plan awards made in 2016 17 audited % receivable for To To ensure ensure that that a a subs substan tant tiia al l par part t o of f the the Dire Director ctors s annual annual b bo onu nus s iis s e ex xpose posed d t to o the the lon long ger er term term imp impa act ct of of fide decis cisiion-m on-mak akiin ng g an and d fu fur rt th he er r t to o Face value threshold End of performance ali alig gn their n their intere interests sts with with sh sharehol areholders, ders, 40% 40% of of any any annual annual bonu bonus s e ea ar rn ned ed by by E Ex xec ecu ut tive ive Dire Direc ct tor ors s a an nd d o ot ther her senior senior exe exec cu ut tives ives mu must st be be 1 2 Director Basis Number of Shares Face value % of salary performance period fide def fe er rr re ed d in into to Co Compan mpany y sh shar are es s b by y me mean ans s of of an an a awar ward d of of n niill-cos cost t o op ption tions s.. Archie Bethel As per the Policy.
No 13,162 131,225 24% n a n a Man Mand da atoril torily y defe deferred rred annu annual al bonu bonus s a aw war ards ds B Ba as siic c A Aw war ards ds are are su sub bj je ec ct t t to o p po ot te en nt tiia all f fo or rfe feit itur ure e iif f t th he e h ho olld fide er r lle ea av five es s b be ef fo or re e t th he e a aw wa ard rds s v five est st additional Franco Martinelli 12,843 128,045 30% n a n a other other th than an b by y re reason ason of of dea death, th, di disa sabili bility, ty, redun redund dancy, ancy, retiremen retirement t o or r the comp the compan any y or or busine business ss in in whi whic ch h they they a ar re e emplo employ yed ed c ce ea as sin ing g to b to be e performance Bill Tame 12,498 124,605 30% n a n a par part t of of the the Grou Group.
p. conditions required John Davies 13,571 135,303 33% n a n a for vesting.
L Lo on ng g- -t te er rm m i in nc ce en nt ti iv five e sc sch he em me es s P PS SP P Peter Rogers 23,332 232,620 35% n a n a PSP PSP award awards s m ma ade fide iin n 201 2016 17 6 17 a aud udited ited 1 Based for directors on three day average share price of 997p at time of grant.
Face Face va value lue % % r re ece ceiiv va ab blle e f fo or r E En nd o d of f pe perf rfo or rma man nc ce e 1 1 2 2 2 Expressed as a percentage of salary at the date of award 15 June 2016.
Dire Direc ct tor or Basis Basis N Number umber o of f Sha Shar re es s Face v Face va alue lue % o % of f sa salary lary thr thre es sh hol old p d pe erfo rfor rm ma ance nce per periiod od In the form of nil-cost options.
Archie Archie Be Bethel thel As As per the per the P Po oli licy.
7% 31 31 Ma Mar rc ch h 2019 2019 As set out in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, following the restructuring of remuneration arrangements for the continuing me measu asur re es s an and d tar targe get ts s Bill Ta Bill Tame me 84 84,238, 238 83 839 9, 853 853 20 200% 0% 16 16.7%.
7% 31 31 Ma Mar rc ch h 2019 2019 Executive Directors, only Peter Rogers was eligible for a DBMP award in 2016 17.
Peter Rogers received the following awards ar are e se set t ou out t be bello ow w J Jo ohn hn D Da avies vies 81 81,230, 230 80 809 9, 863 863 20 200% 0% 16 16.7%.
7% 31 31 Ma Mar rc ch h 2019 2019 Deferred annual bonus 3 3 mandatorily deferred Voluntarily Deferral Total shares invested in the Potential Maximum number of Peter Peter Rog Roger ers s 22 22,060, 060 21 219 9, 938 938 33 33% % 16 16.. 7% 7% 31 31 Ma Mar rc ch h 2019 2019 Director bonus no of shares Awards no of shares DBMP in 2016 17 matching shares 1 1 B Ba as se ed f d fo or r D Diire rect cto or rs on s on 3 d 3 da ay y ave aver rag age e s sh ha ar re e pr priice ce o of f 99 997 7p p at at ti tim me e o of f gr grant ant.. E Ex xer ercise cise pr price is ice is nil be nil because aw cause awards a ards ar re nile nil-cos cost t op opt tiio on ns.
s. 3 Peter Rogers 23,332 25,787 49,119 16,373 2 2 E Ex xpre pres ss se ed a d as s a pe a perc rcen ent ta age ge of of s sa alla ar ry y a at t t th he d e da ate o te of f t th he e aw awa ar rd d 15 15 J Ju une 2 ne 20 01 16 6.. 3 3 Pet Pete er r Rogers s Rogers st tepp eppe ed down d down f fr rom om th the Bo e Board on ard on 3 31 1 Augus August t 20 2016.
In In the the fo form rm o of f n niill- -cos cost t op options tions.. % receivable for The The perform performa an nc ce e tar targ get ets s th that at wer were e at attache tached d to to th these ese awar awards ds sp splliit t equ equa all lly y betwee between n TSR TSR performa performan nc ce rel e rela ati tive five to to the the peer peer gr group, oup, E EP PS S Number of Face value threshold End of performance 1 2 g gr ro ow wth th a an nd d R RO OC CE E a ar re e iillllu us st tr ra ate ted d in in the the ch charts arts bel belo ow: w: Director Basis matching shares Face value % of salary performance period As per the Policy.
Performance measures and targets are set out 3 Peter Rogers below 16,373 163,239 25% 12.5% 31 March 2019 1 Based for Directors on three day average share price of 997p at time of grant.
Exercise price is nil because awards are nil-cost options.
2 Expressed as a percentage of salary at the date of award.
3 Peter Rogers stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
His 2016 DBMP award is pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period he has served.
In the form of nil-cost options.
Only Peter Rogers was eligible to participate in the DBMP in 2016 17.
The plan has now been removed from the Remuneration Policy and no further matching awards will be granted to Executive Directors.
The DBMP allowed the Committee to make matching share awards of up to two times the deferred bonus shares 40% of bonus and any additional shares or extra bonus deferral self-invested under the plan by the Director of an amount equal to up to 40% of salary.
The matching share award is performance-related and only vests to the extent that the performance criteria are met in respect of the three-year performance period.
For the 2016 cycle, the performance period runs from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019, the same as for PSP awards made in 2016 and the same performance targets apply.
The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held under the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each such share at threshold vesting.
Therefore, for each measure, threshold vesting would be a 0.25 3 for 1 match 4.2% of maximum and maximum vesting would be a 2 3 for 1 match 33% of maximum.
6.7% 7% o of f this this elem elemen ent wo t wou ulld be d be fo for pe r perfo rfor rm ma ance in nce in l liin ne e w wiith th th the m e me edian dian of of th the e FT FTS SE E 35 350 0 exc excludin luding i g in nv five estm stme ent nt trus trusts a ts an nd d financ financia ial ser l serv vic ices compan es companies ies an and max d maximum v imum five est stiing woul ng would b d be e fo for r 9% 9% pa out pa outp perfo erformanc rmance e of of the med the median, ian, repr represent esenting u ing up pp pe er r qua quar rt til ile e pe perf rfo or rmance.
F Fo or r t th he e R RO OC CE E e elle ement, ment, t th he e tar targ get et f fo or r maximum five maximum vest stin ing o g of f th these awa ese awar rds was s ds was se et a t at t 15 15% an % and fo d for r th thresho resholld d v five esti stin ng at g at 1 12 2% %.. 1 11 16 6 B Ba ab bc co ock ck I In nt te er rn na at tiio on na all G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 17 7 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 117 Board Committee reports continued 2014 PSP awards vesting audited Awards granted in 2014 under the PSP were subject to 3-year TSR and EPS targets outlined on page 120.
Performance against these measures, and resulting vesting, is as follows: % weighting on % of each each element element vesting Outcome of 3-year TSR to 31 March 2017 6% pa below median TSR for the FTSE350 excluding investment trusts and financial services 50% 0% Outcome of 3-year adjusted basic underlying EPS 7.1% pa in excess of RPI historical EPS numbers growth to 31 March 2017 were restated to ensure they were on the same accounting basis 50% 53% 2014 PSP awards expected to vest to Executive Directors in June 2017: 26.5% Number Director Award expected to vest Archie Bethel PSP 2014 10,940 1 Franco Martinelli PSP 2014 10,939 Bill Tame PSP 2014 12,581 John Davies PSP 2014 10,453 2 Peter Rogers PSP 2014 26,501 1 Franco Martinellis June 2014 awards were made prior to his appointment as a Director.
2 Peter Rogers retired as a Director on 31 August 2016.
2014 DBMP awards vesting audited Awards granted in 2014 under the DBMP were subject to the 3-year TSR, EPS and average ROCE targets outlined on page 121.
Performance against these measures, and resulting vesting, is as follows: % weighting on Match on each each element element 6% pa below median TSR for the FTSE350 Outcome of 3-year TSR to 31 March 2017 excluding investment trusts and financial services 33% 0x 7.1% pa in excess of RPI historical EPS numbers were restated to ensure they were on the same Outcome of 3-year adjusted basic underlying EPS growth to 31 March 2017 accounting basis 33% 1.01x Outcome of 3-year average ROCE 14.5% 33% 0x Match expected on 2014 DBMP awards for Executive Directors on vesting in June 2017: 0.34x Number Director Award expected to vest Archie Bethel DBMP 2014 7,792 1 Franco Martinelli DBMP 2014 2,028 Bill Tame DBMP 2014 6,000 John Davies DBMP 2014 6,905 2 Peter Rogers DBMP 2014 16,279 1 Franco Martinellis award was made prior to his appointment as a Director.
Sourcing of shares Shares needed to satisfy share awards for Directors are either fresh issue shares issued to the Groups employee share trusts to meet share awards or shares purchased in the market by the trusts using funds advanced by the Company.
The source selection is finalised on or before vesting, the choice being based on what the Board considers is in the best interests of the Company at the time, and what is permissible within available headroom and dilution limits.
118 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 118 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Executive Directors remuneration for 2017 18 Following consultation with the Companys major shareholders, the Committee has considered carefully both best practice and shareholders interests.
Whilst the updated policy is substantially unchanged, it does incorporate new features that further align the policy with best practice and shareholder interests.
These new features are described in the Chairmans Annual Statement.
Base salary Executive Directors base salaries are reviewed each year with any changes usually taking effect from 1 April.
The remuneration policy is pitched to deliver fixed remuneration at or below median and total remuneration capable of delivering upper quartile performance.
The increase in Executive Directors salary for 2017 18 was in line with increases for the wider UK work force see below.
Salary Salary 2017 18 2016 17 Archie Bethel as Chief Executive 765,000 750,000 Archie Bethel as Chief Operating Officer n a 550,000 Franco Martinelli 428,400 420,000 Bill Tame 428,400 420,000 1 John Davies 413,100 405,000 1 Salary reflects that he receives car and fuel benefits.
Internal relativity As noted in our Remuneration policy, when reviewing Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes note of proposals for pay in the wider Group.
Each business within the Group determines its own pay structures and remuneration in light of its own position and the employment market in which it operates.
The overall average salary increase for employees in the UK generally for the year to 31 March 2018 is expected to be in the range of 1% to 2% with individual increases significantly above this amount in some cases dependent on business and personal performance and local market conditions.
The salary increase for the Executive Directors has been set at 2%.
2017 18 Annual bonus For our Executive Directors annual bonus plans for 2017 18 we are continuing to use the broad structure adopted in 2016 17 as set out on page 115, with a reweighting of measures to be based 40% on EPS, 20% on PBT, 20% on OCF and 20% on non-financial objectives.
For Executive Directors other than the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, a portion of the PBT and OCF element will be based on performance of their area of the business, and for the Chief Executive, Global Growth and Operations GGO a portion of the OCF element will be based on GGO measures.
The Committee intends to disclose the Group financial performance targets for 2017 18 and nonfinancial objectives retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, subject to these no longer being considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
The Committee will seek to enhance its retrospective disclosure of non-financial objectives in particular.
These will fall under the categories of: Growth: continue delivery of value-creating growth Technology: improve our technical offering and build barriers to entry Resources: develop robust resourcing plans to meet the future growth plans of the business Reputation: deliver value to our customers, enhance our reputation and sustain operational performance Processes: continually improve our systems, technologies and processes to maximise business opportunities.
The weighting of the elements of bonus is kept under review.
For all Executive Directors, 40% of any earned bonus will continue to be deferred into shares for three years.
PSP awards for 2017 18 The Committee intends to grant awards in 2017 18 under the PSP of 200% of salary for all Executive Directors, with the performance measures and targets as follows: the EPS growth targets for 2017 awards in nominal terms of 4% pa to 11% pa over three years: TSR targets between median and median 9% relative to the peer group: ROCE targets based on the average return over the performance period will vest from 12% to 14.5%.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 119 Board Committee reports continued Summary of the structure of Executive Directors remuneration Based on the Committees policy, the principal elements of the remuneration arrangements other than pension benefits or supplements in lieu of pension benefits for Executive Directors in the year to 31 March 2017 and for the year to 31 March 2018 are summarised in the table below.
2017 18 2016 17 Annual bonus Performance share Annual bonus Performance share Base pay potential awards Base pay potential awards Director % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary 1 Archie Bethel 765,000 150% 200% 750,000 150% 200% Franco Martinelli 428,400 150% 200% 420,000 150% 200% Bill Tame 428,400 150% 200% 420,000 150% 200% John Davies 413,100 150% 200% 405,000 150% 200% 1 Salary as Chief Executive from 1 September 2016 Outstanding share awards summaries: grants made up to and during 2016 The following tables on pages 120 to 122 summarise the performance targets if applicable and other information about the plans relevant to currently outstanding share awards held by Executive Directors ie those awards yet to vest and those that vested during the year to 31 March 2017 the awards made in 2013 under the PSP, the CSOP and the DBMP.
Scheme Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 20132016 Performance For the 2013 awards: 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016 vested in June 2016 as to 37.3%.
period For the 2014 awards: 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017 expected to vest in June 2017 as to 26.5%.
General performance Proportion of total award that target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test can vest under each measure Compound annual growth: Outperformance of the 2016 Awards: ROCE of 50% on EPS and TSR for Maximum 2013 and 2014 Awards: median TSR performance more than 15% 2013-15 awards 11% or more in excess of RPI for the peer group taken 33% on EPS, TSR and ROCE as a whole by 9% or more 2015 and 2016 Awards: for 2016 awards 11% or more Compound annual growth in: TSR performance 2016 Awards: ROCE of 8.3% on EPS and TSR for Threshold equivalent to the median 12% 2013-15 awards 2013 and 2014 Awards: 4% or for the peer group as a more in excess of RPI 5.6% on EPS, TSR and ROCE whole for 2016 awards 2015 and 2016 Awards: 4% or more Intermediate growth between Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straightline basis between the above points between the above points between the above points 8.3% and 50% on EPS and TSR for 2013-15 awards: and between 5.6% and 33% on EPS, TSR and ROCE for 2016 awards Compound annual growth Performance less than ROCE of less than 0% below threshold equivalent to median for threshold the whole peer group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group TSR comparator was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support group services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
120 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 120 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 20132016 continued Other The awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied information that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in respect of any item, is after exceptional items.
ROCE is underlying EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the applicable Performance Period.
ROCE targets set at the start of each cycle represent challenging returns in relation to the capital structure at that time, including the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the period prior to grant.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant changes to the capital structure made during the performance period e. g. acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair outcome for participants and shareholders.
The awards carry the right to receive on vesting a payment equal to the value of any dividends in the period between grant and vesting but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
Exercise periods commence not less than three years from actual or nominal award grant date.
CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that in aggregate the holder cannot receive more gross value from them than a standalone PSP award of shares equal to the relevant award multiple of the Directors base salary.
Scheme Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 20132016 matching awards Performance For the 2013 awards: 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2016 vested in June 2016 as to 57.8%.
period For the 2014 awards: 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017 expected to vest in June 2017 as to 17.0%.
General Performance Match that can vest target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test under each measure Maximum Compound annual growth: Outperformance of the ROCE of more than 0.33x maximum median TSR performance 23.5% 2013 2013 and 2014 Awards: 11% or for the peer group taken 17% 2014 15% 2015 more in excess of RPI 2015 and as a whole by 9% or more and 2016 2016 Awards: 11% or more Threshold Compound annual growth: TSR performance ROCE of 0.042x maximum equivalent to the 21.5% 2013 2013 and 2014 Awards: median for the peer 4% or more in excess of RPI 15% 2014 12% 2015 group as a whole and 2016 2015 and 2016 Awards: 4% or more Intermediate growth between Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straightline basis the above points between the above points between the above points between 0.042x and 0.33x maximum Compound annual Performance less than ROCE of less than 0x growth below threshold equivalent to median for threshold the whole peer group Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Board Committee reports continued Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 20132016 matching awards continued TSR comparator For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
group This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that the Companys closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Other information Matching awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
For the 2013, 2015 and 2016 awards, ROCE is underlying EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the applicable Performance Period.
For 2014 awards, the test is based on Average Capital Employed in the 2016 17 Financial Year, with EBIT for the Babcock businesses excluding Avincis now called Mission Critical Services being calculated after amortisation of acquired intangibles and EBIT for the Avincis business being calculated before amortisation of acquired intangibles in each case before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Capital Employed calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for that year.
In addition, for the 2014 awards, the Committee has to be satisfied that ROCE for 2014 15 and 2015 16 was satisfactory, and that the recorded ROCE performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant changes to the capital structure made during the performance period eg acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair outcome for participants and shareholders.
122 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 122 Strategic report 1 Board Committee reports continued Directors report 80 Financials 142 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 20132016 matching awards continued Linkage of remuneration to strategic objectives, risk management and its alignment with shareholder interests TSR comparator For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
The Committee links the remuneration of executives to the long-term interests of shareholders and key strategic and risk management group This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that the Companys closest peers straddle multiple objectives by the performance criteria it uses in the annual bonus and long-term incentive plans.
sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Examples include the following: Other information Matching awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied Strategic Objective SO Risk R Annual bonus scheme metric Long-term incentive metric that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over SO R: Delivering superior Incentivising delivery of top quartile Financial measures focused on annual delivery of the performance period.
and sustainable value for our shareholder returns and earnings growth sustainable earnings and or profits with stretch targets, EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in shareholders, whilst balancing over the longer term.
whilst maintaining strict control of cash.
respect of any item, is after exceptional items.
For the 2013, 2015 and 2016 awards, ROCE is underlying EBIT after risk and reward.
Long-term measures and deferral of amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and significant part of annual bonus to guard the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period against short-term steps being taken to where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in maximise annual rewards at the expense the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will of future performance.
be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the applicable SO: Growth.
Setting challenging budgets and stretch targets, Performance Period.
For 2014 awards, the test is based on Average Capital Employed in the 2016 17 Financial Year, with EBIT for the Babcock businesses excluding Avincis now called Mission Critical Services being calculated after as well as non-financial measures specifically aimed at: amortisation of acquired intangibles and EBIT for the Avincis business being calculated before amortisation of laying the foundations for sustainable growth acquired intangibles in each case before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the in specific existing and new geographical Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Capital Employed calculated as the average of the opening and business markets: closing value of Capital Employed for that year.
In addition, for the 2014 awards, the Committee has to be satisfied winning key bids and re-bids: that ROCE for 2014 15 and 2015 16 was satisfactory, and that the recorded ROCE performance is a genuine fostering strategically important reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
ROCE targets set at the start of each cycle represent partnering arrangements.
challenging returns in relation to the capital structure at that time, including the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the period prior to grant.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant SO: Developing and maintaining Specific non-financial objectives for: leading market positions in the changes to the capital structure made during the performance period eg acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair progressing plans for entry into or expansion outcome for participants and shareholders.
UK and selected overseas markets.
in targeted domestic and overseas markets: The awards carry the right to receive on vesting a payment equal to the value of any dividends in the period securing key business development milestones.
between grant and vesting but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
SO: Building and maintaining Non-financial objectives linked to: Exercise periods commence not less than three years from actual or nominal award grant date.
customer focused, long-term customer satisfaction: relationships with strategically continuing improvement of management processes: important customers.
meeting and planning for existing and R: Loss of business reputation, future customer expectations on capability and poor contract performance.
compliance, for example, in the field of security and information assurance.
SO R: Ensuring the Group will continue Non-financial objectives linked to recruitment and Retentive nature of the to retain and attract the suitably development, resource and succession planning, long-term plans.
qualified and experienced people it and fostering diversity and employee engagement.
needs to deliver its growth and Retentive nature of the requirement for deferral strategic plans, maintain and develop into shares of 40% of annual bonuses earned by its technical and management senior executives.
SO R: Maintenance of an Overriding health, safety and environmental performance excellent health, safety and criterion in annual bonus plans.
122 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Board Committee reports continued Exit payments made in year audited No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year under review.
Payments to past Directors audited As outlined in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Peter Rogers retired from the Board on 31 August 2016.
As he served as Chief Executive for most of the first half of the 2016 17 financial year, he also participated in the 2016 17 annual bonus plan on similar terms as for other Executive Directors, although on a time pro-rated basis, so that he will only receive 50% of the amount that would be payable for the full year after testing for performance.
This payment, as included in his single figure of remuneration on page 113, is to be made in June 2017 as to 60% in cash and 40% by way of deferral in shares for three years into a basic award under the DBMP.
He will not be eligible for a matching award on the deferral.
Details of Peter Rogers other outstanding equity awards are included elsewhere in this report.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Company on 31 March 2016, having previously served as an Executive Director until stepping down on 31 December 2015.
37.3% and 57.8% of his existing 2013 PSP and 2013 DBMP matching awards, totalling 49,004 shares, vested at the normal time and in line with other participants on 13 June 2016.
Non-Executive Directors fees including the Chairman The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fixed fees.
These fees are reviewed against market practice.
From this year the review will take place annually by the Chairman and the Executive Directors in the case of the Non-Executive Director fees and by the Committee in respect of the fees payable to the Chairman.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed and set as of 1 April 2017.
Prior to this, they were last increased in April 2015.
% change since Year to Year to last review 31 March 2017 31 March 2018 Annual rate of fees % p. a Chairman 310,000 330,000 3.2% Senior Independent Director inclusive of basic fee 69,000 71,000 1.4% 1 Basic Non-Executive Directors fee UK based directors 58,000 60,000 1.7% 2 Chairmanship of Audit and Risk Committee 15,000 15,000 0% 2 Chairmanship of Remuneration Committee 15,000 15,000 0% 1 Fees for non-UK based Directors will be set having regard to the extra time commitment involved in attending meetings.
For Myles Lee, appointed 1 April 2015 and based in Ireland, and for Victoire fide Margerie, appointed 1 February 2016 and based in France, the fee has been set at 64,200 for the year to 31 March 2018.
2 Committee chairmanship fees are paid in addition to the basic applicable Non-Executive Directors fee.
No additional fees are paid for membership of Committees.
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration as disclosed in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 113 from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other employees.
The analysis is based on UK employees as they are operating in the same geography and macro-economic background as the Chief Executive.
% change 2015 16 TO 2016 17 Chief Other 1 Executive employees 2 Base salary 11% 2.4% 3 Taxable benefits 766% 8.0% Single-year variable 29% -1.0% 1 The percentage change for the Chief Executive has been determined with reference to the aggregate 2016 17 remuneration for Archie Bethel and Peter Rogers for the period they were undertaking the role of Chief Executive.
2 Increase reflects the restructuring of remuneration for 2016 17.
As disclosed in last years report, as part of the deleveraging of the package and removal of the DBMP, Archie Bethel was appointed as Chief Executive on a salary of 750,000 p. a. which was higher than his predecessors salary.
3 Increase reflects additional costs 173,806 in 2016 17 in connection with Archie Bethels accommodation in London, at the Companys request, to enable him to lead the business effectively.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 16 2016 17 % change Distribution to shareholders 122m 133m 9% Employee remuneration 1,459m1,547m 6% 124 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 124 Strategic report 1 Board Committee reports continued Directors report 80 Financials 142 Exit payments made in year audited Performance graphs No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year under review.
The following graph shows the TSR for the Company compared to the FTSE100 Index and FTSE350 Support Services Index, assuming 100 was invested on 1 April 2009 investment in the Company was worth 276 on 31 March 2017.
The Board considers that these indices Payments to past Directors audited currently represent the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes as they provide a view of performance against the As outlined in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Peter Rogers retired from the Board on 31 August 2016.
As he served as Chief broad equity market and sector index of which the Company is a constituent.
Executive for most of the first half of the 2016 17 financial year, he also participated in the 2016 17 annual bonus plan on similar terms Babcock International vs. FTSE 350 Support Services Index and FTSE 100 Index as for other Executive Directors, although on a time pro-rated basis, so that he will only receive 50% of the amount that would be payable for the full year after testing for performance.
This payment, as included in his single figure of remuneration on page 113, is to be made in 400 June 2017 as to 60% in cash and 40% by way of deferral in shares for three years into a basic award under the DBMP.
350 Kevin Thomas retired from the Company on 31 March 2016, having previously served as an Executive Director until stepping down on 300 31 December 2015.
250 Non-Executive Directors fees including the Chairman 200 The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fixed fees.
From this year the review will take place annually by the Chairman and the Executive Directors in the case of the Non-Executive Director fees and by the Committee 150 in respect of the fees payable to the Chairman.
100 % change since Year to Year to last review 31 March 2017 31 March 2018 50 Annual rate of fees % p. a 0 Chairman 310,000 330,000 3.2% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Senior Independent Director inclusive of basic fee 69,000 71,000 1.4% Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2009 1 Basic Non-Executive Directors fee UK based directors 58,000 60,000 1.7% Babcock FTSE 350 Support Services Index FTSE 100 Index 2 Chairmanship of Audit and Risk Committee 15,000 15,000 0% 2 Chairmanship of Remuneration Committee 15,000 15,000 0% The table below details the CEOs single figure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
1 Fees for non-UK based Directors will be set having regard to the extra time commitment involved in attending meetings.
For Myles Lee, appointed 1 April 2015 and CEO single figure of remuneration and % of variable awards vesting based in Ireland, and for Victoire fide Margerie, appointed 1 February 2016 and based in France, the fee has been set at 64,200 for the year to 31 March 2018.
2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2 Committee chairmanship fees are paid in addition to the basic applicable Non-Executive Directors fee.
1 Peter Rogers Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration Single figure 000 1,706 1,792 2,185 2,731 3,809 4,448 2,491 1,100 The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration as disclosed in the single total figure of Bonus vesting % max 97% 98% 99% 99% 93% 78% 60% 66% remuneration table on page 113 from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other employees.
DBMP matching shares vesting % max n a n a n a n a n a 88.4% 57.8% 17.0% The analysis is based on UK employees as they are operating in the same geography and macro-economic background as the Chief PSP CSOP vesting % max 100% 82.9% 57.8% 58.8% 94.7% 83.5% 37.3% 26.5% Executive.
2 Archie Bethel % change 2015 16 TO 2016 17 Single figure 000 1,848 Chief Other 1 Executive employees Bonus vesting % max 66% 2 Base salary 11% 2.4% DBMP matching shares vesting % max 17.0% 3 Taxable benefits 766% 8.0% PSP CSOP vesting % max 26.5% Single-year variable 29% -1.0% 1 Until retirement on 31 August 2016.
2 Includes remuneration received whilst undertaking the role of Chief Operating Officer until August 2016.
1 The percentage change for the Chief Executive has been determined with reference to the aggregate 2016 17 remuneration for Archie Bethel and Peter Rogers for the period they were undertaking the role of Chief Executive.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2015 16 2016 17 % change Distribution to shareholders 122m 133m 9% Employee remuneration 1,459m1,547m 6% 124 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 125 Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2009 Board Committee reports continued Directors share ownership Directors interests in shares audited The interests of the Directors and or their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2017, and Directors interests in shares and options under the Companys long-term incentives are set out in the sections below: At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2017 Shares held Shares held Options held Unvested Owned Owned Vested but Unvested and Current and outright outright subject to Vested subject to subject to S holding shareholding by director by director holding but not performance continued req.
1 1 2 2 Director or spouse or spouse period exercised conditions employment % salary salary met?
2 Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors is calculated based on salary as at 31 March 2017 and by reference to shares owned outright by Director or spouse, options vested but subject to holding periods, options vested but not exercised and options unvested but subject only to continued employment, valued assuming exercise of options on 31 March 2017 and calculated post-tax.
3 Disclosure of these shareholdings reflects any adjustments made due to the rights issue which completed during May 2014.
4 Peter Rogers left the board on 31 August 2016, his interests are shown at that date.
5 Victoire fide Margerie joined the Board on 1 February 2016.
There have been no changes to the continuing Directors or their spouses shareholdings between 31 March 2017 and 23 May 2017.
126 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 126 Strategic report 1 Board Committee reports continued Directors report 80 Financials 142 Directors share ownership Directors share-based awards and options audited Directors interests in shares audited The tables below shows the various share awards held by Directors under the Companys various share plans.
The Companys mid-market share price at close of business on 31 March 2017 was 882p.
The highest and lowest mid-market share prices in the year ended 31 March The interests of the Directors and or their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2017, and Directors interests in shares and options under the Companys long-term incentives are set out in the sections below: 2017 were 1,105p and 869.5p, respectively.
Number of At 31 March 2016 At 31 March 2017 shares subject Number of to award at 1 shares Market value Shares held Shares held Options held April 2016 subject to of each adjusted for Granted Exercised Lapsed award at Exercise share at date Unvested 1 Plan and the 2014 during the during the during the 31 March price of award Exercisable Expiry Owned Owned Vested but Unvested and Current and 7 2 3 4 Director year of award rights issue year year year 2017 pence pence from date outright outright subject to Vested subject to subject to S holding shareholding by director by director holding but not performance continued req.
a Archie PSP 2013 48,723 18,173 30,550 0 1,036.88 Jun 2016 Jun 2017 1 1 2 2 Director or spouse or spouse period exercised conditions employment % salary salary met?
2 Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors is calculated based on salary as at 31 March 2017 and by reference matching award to shares owned outright by Director or spouse, options vested but subject to holding periods, options vested but not exercised and options unvested but subject only DBMP 2014 10,215 10,215 1,223.67 Jun 2017 Jun 2018 to continued employment, valued assuming exercise of options on 31 March 2017 and calculated post-tax.
voluntary deferral 3 Disclosure of these shareholdings reflects any adjustments made due to the rights issue which completed during May 2014.
award 5 Victoire fide Margerie joined the Board on 1 February 2016.
For other notes to the table see page 132.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Board Committee reports continued Notes applicable to all tables on pages 127 to 131.
Outstanding awards granted prior to June 2014 were adjusted to reflect the rights issue which completed during May 2014 using a standard adjustment factor of 1.13417.
Any reference price, including the exercise prices shown was also adjusted.
1 PSP 2009 Performance Share Plan: CSOP 2009 Company Share Option Plan: DBMP 2012 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan: DBP 2012 Deferred Bonus Plan.
Further details about these plans and, where applicable, performance conditions attaching to the awards listed are to be found on pages 120 to 122.
2 The PSP and DBMP awards are structured as nil priced options.
DBMP basic awards represent the amount of the annual bonus mandatorily deferred and DBMP voluntary deferral awards represent the amount voluntarily deferred by the Director, in each case converted into shares at their value at the award date.
3 Subject to the rules of the plan concerned, including as to meeting performance targets for PSP, CSOP and DBMP Matching Awards.
4 Where this date is less than ten years from the date of award, the Committee may extend the expiry date on one or more occasions, but not beyond the tenth anniversary of the award.
5 Awards shown in the table for Franco Martinelli for 2013 and June 2014 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 August 2014.
It is payable by the Company to the award holder on exercise of the award concerned.
2 Closing Share Price on the last dealing date before vesting was 999.5p 12 June 2016 for PSP 2013 and DBMP 2013 awards.
132 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 132 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Other interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
External appointments of Executive Directors in 2016 17 The table below details the fee received by Bill Tame during the year, in respect of his other directorship, which is retained by him.
Fees received Name of Director Company 000 Southern Bill Tame Water 67 This Remuneration report was approved by the Board on 23 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Jeff Randall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 133
