Remuneration Committee Indeed, Phil has already made a significant impact at Mitie by resetting the Groups strategy and carrying out a balance sheet review to underpin Mities financial reporting.
To ensure focus on its core activities, Mitie sold its domiciliary healthcare business in February 2017.
The Committee was mindful of the fact that the challenges faced by Mitie required the leadership, vision and drive of an exceptional Chief Executive such as Phil and that, therefore, it was necessary to offer a level of remuneration commensurate with the talents of such a candidate.
Also, when determining Phils remuneration, the Committees underlying aims were to: operate within Mities existing policy, for which shareholder Jack Boyer approval had been obtained at the 2015 AGM: Chairmans introduction On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the avoid the payment of any signing-on awards: Directors remuneration report for the year ended ensure that Phils interests are immediately aligned with 31 March 2017. the long-term interests of shareholders via i Phil acquiring out of his own funds a significant stake in Mitie, The Remuneration Committee has been required to ii a policy-compliant award under the existing Mitie LTIP address a number of issues during the course of the year.
albeit with performance measured over a longer fourI have described below the approach the Committee has year period than the standard three years and iii the taken, together with the context in which key decisions imposition of enhanced share ownership guidelines of were made.
400% of salary: and ensure that a significant portion of Phils package is Chief Executive succession performance-linked.
In the second half of 2015 the Board initiated a detailed review of its senior executive succession plans, initially With this in mind, the main elements of Phils package were for the role of Chief Executive.
External advisors were agreed as follows: appointed to support this process, with a range of both internal and external candidates assessed.
The Committee is aware that this announced in October 2016, this process culminated salary is above median.
However, this salary reflects Phils in the appointment of Phil Bentley as the successor to expertise and experience which are particularly relevant Ruby McGregor-Smith as Chief Executive, with Phil to Mitie.
This salary was not increased following the FY17 assuming this position in December.
year end and will not be increased until 2020 at the earliest : We were pleased to secure Phil as Mities Chief Executive.
Shareholder alignment: to provide an immediate He has a strong track record of value creation, having led and significant alignment with other shareholders, in the successful turnaround and eventual sale of Cable & November 2016 Phil acquired out of his own funds Wireless Communications plc CWC where he created 1,852,656 Mitie shares worth 3.6m.
This ensured substantial returns for shareholders moving CWC up the adherence to the enhanced share ownership guideline FTSE by 121 places to a ranking of 114 within a two-year of 400% of salary that will apply to Phil the current period, with the sale delivering 3.3 billion to shareholders.
policy being 200% of salary : Prior to that, Phil was managing director of British Gas BG.
Annual bonus: Phil built a new management team which grew BG into a 14 FY17 as explained on page 77, Phil was eligible for an billion business with 33,000 employees and 1.2 billion on-target bonus of 115% of his pro-rated salary for annual profit increased from 300m.
Although the Committee determined that the financial elements of the target were not met, Phil had In both roles, Phil demonstrated his skills in value creation achieved the strategic targets relating to the period of through a combination of people leadership, establishing management transition and in particular with reference new management teams, changing the culture and to customer, employee and shareholder goals.
Mindful ways of working, a focus on client customer service, of shareholders experience over the year, Phil has an expanded and often technology-led offering, cost waived this bonus.
He has also currently waived his efficiencies and brand transformation.
These change entitlement to a car and driver: and programmes were also delivered at pace, with Phils skills and drive highly relevant to Mitie and its strategy at this FY18 as explained on page 77, Phils bonus critical stage in the Companys development.
opportunity for FY18 will reflect Mities existing approach in terms of quantum i. e. a 160% of salary maximum bonus.
This bonus will be payable by reference to performance against a blend of financial up to 70% of the bonus opportunity and personal strategic targets up to 30% of the bonus opportunity.
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary is deferred into shares.
62 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Long-term incentives: provided under the existing Departure terms of previous CEO and GFD shareholder-approved LTIP which contains a two-year The remuneration issues relating to the stepping down post vesting holding period.
Further details are provided of Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter were on page 80: approached in a consistent manner.
This approach also reflected the Companys existing remuneration policy, the FY17 following his appointment in November terms of their service agreements, the rules of the relevant 2016, Phil received a policy-compliant award under incentive plans and did not include any ex gratia additional the LTIP over shares worth 200% of salary.
Full details of our approach are set out in this in recognition of the specific circumstances relating to report, which includes an explanation of the fact that i his recruitment mid-year, Phils initial award will vest neither Ruby McGregor-Smith nor Suzanne Baxter received subject to the extent to which the annual bonus a bonus for FY17 and ii the Committee determined that all targets that apply for FY18, FY19 and FY20 are met their outstanding LTIP awards should lapse.
and a bonus paid, noting that typically a bonus will not be paid in circumstances where a minimum financial In addition, as a consequence of the prior year adjustments target set by the Committee has not been achieved to the accounts for the financial year ended 31 March 2016, and or where a significant negative event has occurred the Remuneration Committee will determine what rights in a year such as a failure to pay a dividend.
In the may be available to the Company to recover the bonus and event Phil earns a bonus in one of these years, 25% of other awards made to each of Ruby McGregor-Smith and the award vests, with 67% vesting if a bonus is earned in Suzanne Baxter in respect of FY16 whether in two of the years and full vesting if a bonus is earned in whole or in part.
However, no vesting will actually occur until 2020.
The Committee believes the approach Remuneration policy adopted for Phils initial award supports the strong We have made no changes to the remuneration policy for alignment of his interests with the long-term interests which shareholder approval was obtained at the 2015 AGM of shareholders given i Phils substantial initial upfront and we are not proposing any changes for the forthcoming investment, ii future LTIP awards will be granted with year.
For ease of reference we have provided shareholders standard three-year performance targets and iii this with a copy of the policy in the next section of this report.
initial award effectively operates with a four-year This policy will remain in place until the AGM in July 2018. performance period, whereas other LTIP awards granted to other participants in FY17 measure Key activities during the year performance over only three years as they are During the year and immediately following the year end, tested in 2019 rather than 2020 : and we addressed a number of key issues in addition to those described in the first sections of this letter, such as: FY18 Phil will receive a standard LTIP award over shares worth 200% of salary which will vest setting base salaries for the Executive Directors: subject to the same performance targets as other assessing the performance of the Executive Directors recipients i. e. a blend of EPS, TSR, cash conversion and strategic objectives.
and determining annual bonuses: Pension: reflecting standard policy, Phil will receive a cash setting bonus targets for the Executive Directors: contribution in lieu of pension of 20% of salary.
approving share awards and considering the extent of vesting of legacy share awards: The above remains compliant with the Companys existing remuneration policy and does not include any signing on reviewing the application of the remuneration policy: and awards.
The Committee believes that the approach preparing the Directors remuneration report.
adopted to Phil Bentleys remuneration is appropriate and, in particular, delivers against our objective of securing a CEO with the exceptional talents required to address the specific challenges faced by Mitie and to deliver strong shareholder returns.
Phil has shown his commitment to Mitie via his significant upfront investment in Mitie shares, thereby securing another of the Committees key objectives genuine alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders.
Group Finance Director succession As announced in January 2017, and also as part of Mities orderly succession planning process, Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board as Group Finance Director and was succeeded by Sandip Mahajan as Chief Financial Officer.
Full details of Sandips remuneration arrangements which comply with the Companys existing remuneration policy are provided in this report and are lower than those provided to Suzanne Baxter but, in summary, include i a base salary of 320,000 which will not be increased in FY18, ii an annual bonus opportunity of 100% of salary and iii regular annual LTIP awards of 125% of salary.
com 63 Remuneration Committee continued Alignment between strategy and pay at Mitie Remuneration decisions The remuneration policy supports and rewards the Delivering strategic goals for the future development of the achievement of the Groups strategy to deliver sustainable Group, while also being cognisant of the challenging market and profitable growth.
This is driven and measured by how conditions Mitie faces, has been the key focus for the Board the Group performs against a number of KPIs, both financial this year and the Committee has approached the key and non-financial, further details of which can be found on decisions regarding the remuneration of the Executive pages 12 and 13.
Directors with this future direction in mind.
We align the remuneration policy to the Groups strategy With regard to fixed pay, it has been agreed that the new and performance in a number of ways, including: Executive Directors base salaries will not be increased and so will remain 900,000 for Phil Bentley and 320,000 Annual Bonus Plan ABP awarded based on a for Sandip Mahajan.
combination of profit and strategic measures set by the Board at the beginning of the financial year: and In relation to annual bonus and as explained later in this report : Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP based on a basket of measures tailored to the Groups business.
Phil Bentley was eligible for an on-target bonus of 115% of his pro-rated salary for FY17.
Although the Pages 77 and 79 give you more information on ABP and Committee determined that the financial elements of the LTIP targets.
target were not met, Phil had achieved the strategic elements of his target.
Mindful of shareholders experience Remuneration Committee members over the year, Phil has waived this bonus.
He has also The members of the Remuneration Committee are all Noncurrently waived his entitlement to a car and driver: Executive Directors.
Sandip Mahajan was not eligible for a bonus for FY17: Chairman Jack Boyer the Committee determined that no bonus should be Committee members Larry Hirst payable to Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter: Roger Matthews and Mark Reckitt for FY18, Phil Bentleys bonus opportunity will be 160% of salary, Sandip Mahajans 100%.
Reflecting the approach Key purpose of the Remuneration Committee adopted last year, bonuses will be payable based on We have responsibility for determining the remuneration performance against a blend of challenging financial of Mities Executive Directors and the Chairman, taking and strategic targets.
into account the need to ensure Executive Directors are properly incentivised to perform in the interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference are available at www.
com investors corporategovernance Frequency of Remuneration Committee meetings During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Committee met five times.
Attendance Jack Boyer 5 Larry Hirst 5 Roger Matthews 5 Mark Reckitt 5 The Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive and the Group HR Director on various matters relating to the appropriateness of rewards for the Executive Directors.
However, the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors are not present when matters relating directly to their own remuneration are discussed.
This is also the case for other executives attending Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary attended the meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive and Group HR Director attended the meetings by invitation only.
64 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 With regard to long-term incentives and as also explained later in this report : following a shareholder consultation exercise, it was agreed that the normal 2016 LTIP grants be made subject to a blend of EPS, TSR, cash conversion and strategic objectives.
It is also proposed that a similar approach will be taken to the LTIP awards that are to be made in 2017 over shares worth 200% of salary for Phil Bentley and 125% of salary for Sandip Mahajan : in accordance with their terms, the 2014 LTIP awards held by Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter were tested at the end of the original performance period.
The Committee determined that these awards should lapse in full after exercising negative discretion: and in accordance with the rules of the relevant LTIP, accelerated vesting applied to the 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards held by Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter.
The Committee determined that these awards should also lapse in full after exercising negative discretion.
Remuneration policy for FY18 and onwards FY18 is the last year that the current remuneration policy will be in effect, following its approval at the 2015 AGM.
We will undertake a review of the policy during the year and any proposals to amend the policy will be discussed with our key shareholders prior to the final policy being presented to the 2018 AGM for a binding vote.
Conclusion We will be seeking approval for the Directors remuneration report from shareholders at the AGM.
I would welcome your views and feedback regarding this years report, which can be emailed to me at jack.
Jack Boyer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee www.
com 65 The Companys remuneration policy This report We have presented this report in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also describes how the Board has complied with the provisions set out in the September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
At our 2017 AGM we will be holding an advisory vote on the implementation section of this report only, as no changes to the policy are proposed.
However, our policy is provided below for convenience.
The Independent Auditor has reported on certain parts of this report and stated whether, in his opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of the report that have been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
The key principles of the policy The remuneration policy promotes and embeds the Companys remuneration principles.
The key principles of this policy are: Performance-related At the Executive Director and senior management levels, the majority of reward opportunity is provided through performance-related incentives linked to the Companys strategic goals and taking account of the Companys attitude to risk Reward under these incentives is linked to both individual and Group performance Shareholder aligned The performance-related incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of the executives with those of shareholders and to promote the Companys long-term success Comprehensive and simple The overall remuneration policy is comprehensive without becoming overcomplicated and encourages executives to concentrate on profitable growth 66 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Companys remuneration policy This report The policy We have presented this report in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The key elements of the policy, approved at the 2015 AGM, are summarised below.
The report also describes how the Board has complied with the provisions set Purpose and out in the September 2014 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Salaries are generally reviewed Base salary increases will be N A At our 2017 AGM we will be holding an advisory vote on the implementation section of this report only, as no changes to annually and effective from 1 April.
broadly in line with the average the policy are proposed.
Set at levels to The review is influenced by: increase for the salaried nonattract and retain The Independent Auditor has reported on certain parts of this report and stated whether, in his opinion, those parts of the contract UK employees whose individuals of the the individuals role, experience report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of the report that have salaries Mitie determines, calibre required to and performance: been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
although on occasion other specific drive the vision and business performance and the circumstances such as changes direction of Mitie.
wider market and economic The key principles of the policy of responsibilities, progression in conditions: The remuneration policy promotes and embeds the Companys remuneration principles.
The key principles of this policy are: role, experience, or a significant the range of increases across increase in the scale of the role the Group: and Performance-related At the Executive Director and senior management levels, the majority of reward opportunity is and or size, value and or an external comparator provided through performance-related incentives linked to the Companys strategic goals and complexity of the Group may also group comprised of sector taking account of the Companys attitude to risk be taken into consideration.
comparators and size Reward under these incentives is linked to both individual and Group performance adjusted FTSE 250 Shareholder aligned The performance-related incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of the comparator organisations.
executives with those of shareholders and to promote the Companys long-term success Benefits The Group provides a range of Benefits are set at a level which N A Comprehensive and simple The overall remuneration policy is comprehensive without becoming overcomplicated and benefits which may include a the Committee considers: To aid retention encourages executives to concentrate on profitable growth company car car allowance, and be competitive is appropriately positioned private fuel, private health within the against comparable roles in insurance, life assurance and marketplace.
companies of a similar size and annual leave.
complexity in the relevant Benefits are reviewed periodically market: and against market and new benefits provides a sufficient level of may be added and or amended as benefit based on the role and required to support the attraction individual circumstances for and retention of key talent.
Additional benefits may be The Committee retains discretion awarded in certain recruitment to approve a higher cost than circumstances which may include currently incurred where factors relocation expenses, housing outside the Companys control allowance and school fees.
Other have changed materially e. g. benefits may be offered if medical inflation or in exceptional considered appropriate and circumstances e. g. relocation.
com 67 The Companys remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics All Employee Share Executive Directors are eligible to N A N A Schemes participate in any all-employee share plan operated by the To provide Company, in line with HMRC opportunities for guidelines currently prevailing the Directors to where relevant, on the same voluntarily invest basis as other eligible employees.
in the Company on the same terms as other employees.
Pension Executive Directors employed at Executive Directors employed at N A 31 March 2016 participated in the 31 March 2016 accrued pension at To aid retention and Groups defined benefit scheme a rate of 1 70th of pensionable provide competitive which is closed to new entrants.
Pension salary supplement retirement benefits.
The plan has a cap for each of those Directors is 20% of salary.
A cash supplement is As reported last year, from payable in respect of full salary.
1 April 2016, following changes Those Directors are subject to in legislation impacting the tax the same scheme rules as other efficiency of pension savings for members of the final salary higher earners, the Executive scheme.
The rules detail the Directors who previously pension benefits which members participated in the Groups defined receive on retirement, death or benefit pension scheme ceased leaving service.
to accrue benefits in the Groups defined benefit scheme and New Executive Directors will be instead received an additional cash eligible to participate in the defined supplement of equivalent value.
contribution pension scheme or to receive a cash allowance in lieu of The pension salary supplement a pension contribution.
for new Executive Directors will be determined based on the Committees assessment of competitive levels needed to attract and retain such individuals, but will be capped at 20% of salary.
68 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Annual Bonus Plan Measures and targets are set Maximum bonus opportunity is Bonuses are based on stretching annually and pay-out levels are 160% of salary for the Chief financial and strategic objectives To incentivise and determined by the Committee Executive and up to 135% of as set at the beginning of the recognise execution after the year end based on salary for any other Executive year and assessed by the of the Companys performance against Director.
Committee at the end of the strategy on an those targets.
year, with the underlying aim annual basis.
of encouraging and rewarding The Committee may, in Rewards the the generation of sustainable exceptional circumstances, achievement of returns to shareholders.
amend the bonus pay-out annual financial and should this not, in the view of the The Committee has discretion strategic goals.
Committee, reflect overall business to determine the appropriate Deferral provides performance or individual weightings each year depending alignment with contribution.
financial measures will represent Up to 100% of base salary is paid the majority of the bonus, in cash with anything over 100% with the strategic objectives being deferred in shares which vest representing the balance.
in two years normally subject to These elements are additive.
Dividends are accrued on deferred shares For the strategic element of and paid in cash.
the award, payment at threshold performance is zero.
At the Malus provisions apply to deferred start-to-earn performance level share awards made after the under the financial element, a 2015 AGM.
bonus of no more than 60% of salary is payable.
Long Term Annual awards in the form of nilAwards may be made up to Performance over three financial Incentive Plan cost options, conditional share a maximum level of 200% of years is measured against awards or cash settlements are salary for any Executive stretching objectives set at the To motivate and Director.
beginning of the performance made with vesting dependent upon incentivise delivery the achievement of performance period which have the underlying of sustained aim of encouraging and conditions over three years.
performance and rewarding the generation alignment with Award levels and the framework of sustainable returns to shareholder for determining vesting are reviewed shareholders.
annually to ensure they continue to Vesting under the LTIP support the Groups strategy.
depends on the achievement The Committee has the discretion of performance conditions, for to decide whether, and to what which a minimum performance extent, targets have been met, and, threshold has been set.
if an exceptional event occurs that Awards attributable to each causes the Committee to consider performance condition vest at that the targets are no longer 25% on the achievement of appropriate, the Committee the minimum performance may adjust them.
threshold, rising to 100% for Dividend equivalents are paid the achievement of a defined in cash on or after the date upper performance threshold.
Vested shares will be subject to an additional holding period and malus provisions will apply for awards made after the 2015 AGM.
com 69 The Companys remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Share ownership Executive Directors are required, N A N A over time, to build and maintain a To ensure alignment minimum shareholding in the between Executive Company worth 200% of salary.
They are required to retain half of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP and other share schemes until the guideline is met.
Chairman and Fees are normally reviewed every Fees are set at a level which: N A Non-Executive three years.
reflects the commitment and Director fees The fee structure is as follows: contribution that is expected To attract and from a Chairman and the Nonthe Chairman is paid an allretain highcalibre Executive Directors: and inclusive single fee for all individuals.
Board responsibilities: is appropriately positioned Non-Executive against comparator roles in the Non-Executive Directors are Directors do not companies of a similar size paid a basic fee, plus additional participate in any and complexity in the fees for chairmanship of incentive schemes.
committees: fees are currently paid in cash Actual fees are disclosed in the but the Company may choose Directors remuneration report to provide some of the fees for the relevant financial year.
in shares: and Aggregate fees value of benefits benefits, including expenses, are capped at the amount set can be provided if out in the Companys Articles considered necessary of Association.
Note: The malus provision under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP may be operated if it comes to light within three years that information used to determine performance was materially inaccurate and resulted in a material overstatement of the award or in the event of any act omission by an individual that would give grounds for summary dismissal with no time limit.
Discretions retained in operating the incentive plans The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP according to their respective rules and the above policy table.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of respects, in relation to the operation and administration of these plans.
These discretions include, but are not limited to, the following: the selection of participants: the timing of grant of an award bonus opportunity: the size of an award bonus opportunity subject to the maximum limits set out in the policy table: the determination of performance against targets and resultant vesting bonus pay-outs: discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and the annual review of performance measures, weightings and targets from year to year.
In relation to both the LTIP and Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of these discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors remuneration report and may, where appropriate and practicable, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, for the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors under previous policies.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the relevant report as required by the current reporting regulations.
70 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors Under the Companys policy, a significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance.
The charts below show how much the Executive Directors could earn under Mities remuneration policy as detailed above under different performance scenarios.
The following assumptions have been made: minimum performance below threshold fixed pay only, comprising salaries effective as of 1 April 2017 and the full-year effect of ongoing benefits and cash allowance in lieu of a pension contribution: on-target performance fixed pay plus an on-target bonus and 25% of the maximum possible LTIP award vesting.
On-target bonus for FY18 represents 70% of the maximum bonus: and maximum performance fixed pay plus maximum bonus for FY18 of 160% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% for the Chief Financial Officer structured 70% financial targets and 30% strategic other and maximum LTIP awards of 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 125% for the Chief Financial Officer.
The scenarios do not include share price growth or dividend assumptions.
com 71 The Companys remuneration policy continued Executive Directors service contracts Non-Executive Directors engagement terms All Executive Directors are appointed on rolling service contracts but are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in Initial accordance with the Code.
contract Notice Additional duties Date of engagement term period Under the service contracts, the Company is required to give 12 months notice of termination of employment: Phil Bentley Roger Matthews Chairman: Chairman of Nomination Committee 4 December 2006 3 years 6 months is required to give 12 months notice and Sandip Mahajan is required to give six months notice.
Larry Hirst Senior Independent Director 1 February 2010 3 years 3 months Jack Boyer Chairman of Remuneration Committee 1 June 2013 3 years 3 months For Executive Directors, if notice is served by either party, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, Mark Reckitt Chairman of Audit Committee 1 July 2015 3 years 3 months benefits and pension allowance for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the 1 individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat 14 March 2017 3 years 3 months 2 Derek Mapp Chairman-elect 8 May 2017 3 years 3 months With respect to the current Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers contracts, the Company has the right to make a Notes: payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value up to 12 months salary payable either in monthly instalments or as a lump sum.
The Company will also pay for any benefit for which the individual would have been eligible until the date of cessation had full 1.
Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat joined the Board on 1 June 2017: her three-year contract term commenced on that date.
Derek Mapp joined the Board on 9 May 2017 as Chairman-elect and will take over as Chairman at the AGM on 26 July 2017.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at Mities registered office, Mities head office and at How the executive pay policy differs from that for other Mitie employees the AGM.
There are no other provisions for compensation on termination of employment set out within the contracts of the The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other Executive Directors.
employees, ensuring that the greater part of their pay is conditional on the successful delivery of business strategy.
This helps create a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Directors.
For future Executive Directors, notice periods will not exceed 12 months, save in exceptional circumstances: should a The LTIP is limited to the most senior employees.
For employees below this level, variable pay may consist of share-based notice period longer than 12 months be necessary the Committee would expect this to reduce to a 12 months notice period awards and annual bonus both of which will be based on role, and they will have the opportunity to participate in the over time.
SAYE and SIP share schemes.
The effective dates of the service contracts of the Executive Directors are set out below: How employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are taken into account The Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration policy for the Group as a whole and is Date of agreement mindful of pay and employment conditions in the wider workforce within the Group and externally when determining Phil Bentley 9 October 2016 executive remuneration.
When considering base salary increases, benefits and pension provision, the Committee reviews Sandip Mahajan 17 January 2017 overall levels and increases offered to employees across the Group.
The Committee also reviews information with regard to Ruby McGregor-Smith 1 April 2003 share awards made to other senior management of the Group, noting that i all employees can participate in the SAYE and SIP share schemes, and ii participation in the LTIP is limited to a selection of senior executives.
However, consistent with Suzanne Baxter 10 April 2006 general practice, the Committee does not consult with employees in preparing the policy or its implementation.
External appointments How shareholder views are taken into account The Board recognises that the appointment of Executive Directors to non-executive positions at other companies can be The Committee is committed to a continuing discussion with major shareholders and obtains their views when any significant beneficial for both the individual director and the Group through the broadening of their experience and knowledge.
Ruby changes to remuneration arrangements are being proposed.
McGregor-Smith received fees of 53,500 in respect of her role as a non-executive director of Michael Page International plc and 15,000 for her role as non-executive director of the Department of Education.
Suzanne Baxter received fees of 60,000 for her role as a non-executive director of WH Smith plc.
Both individuals are entitled to retain any fees earned.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration and appointment terms The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive an annual fee which is paid in monthly instalments.
The Chairmans fee is set by the Remuneration Committee and the fees for the Non-Executive Directors are approved by the Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with an additional fee for chairing a Committee, together with expenses incurred in carrying out their duties on behalf of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes, Annual Bonus Plan or the pension scheme.
They do not receive any ancillary benefits.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at Mities registered office, Mities head office and at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors are engaged for an initial term of three years which is terminable on either three or six months notice and thereafter on a rolling term.
They are also subject to annual re-election.
72 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Non-Executive Directors engagement terms Initial contract Notice Additional duties Date of engagement term period Roger Matthews Chairman: Chairman of Nomination Committee 4 December 2006 3 years 6 months Larry Hirst Senior Independent Director 1 February 2010 3 years 3 months Jack Boyer Chairman of Remuneration Committee 1 June 2013 3 years 3 months Mark Reckitt Chairman of Audit Committee 1 July 2015 3 years 3 months 1 Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat 14 March 2017 3 years 3 months 2 Derek Mapp Chairman-elect 8 May 2017 3 years 3 months Notes: 1.
How the executive pay policy differs from that for other Mitie employees The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, ensuring that the greater part of their pay is conditional on the successful delivery of business strategy.
The LTIP is limited to the most senior employees.
For employees below this level, variable pay may consist of share-based awards and annual bonus both of which will be based on role, and they will have the opportunity to participate in the SAYE and SIP share schemes.
How employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are taken into account The Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration policy for the Group as a whole and is mindful of pay and employment conditions in the wider workforce within the Group and externally when determining executive remuneration.
When considering base salary increases, benefits and pension provision, the Committee reviews overall levels and increases offered to employees across the Group.
The Committee also reviews information with regard to share awards made to other senior management of the Group, noting that i all employees can participate in the SAYE and SIP share schemes, and ii participation in the LTIP is limited to a selection of senior executives.
However, consistent with general practice, the Committee does not consult with employees in preparing the policy or its implementation.
How shareholder views are taken into account The Committee is committed to a continuing discussion with major shareholders and obtains their views when any significant changes to remuneration arrangements are being proposed.
com 73 Annual Report on Remuneration Executive Director remuneration subject to audit The table below reports a single figure of total remuneration for each Executive Director for the financial years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017.
The information in the table above confirms his earnings for his position as an Executive Director from 1 November 2016.
Sandip Mahajan joined the Company on 18 January 2017 and was appointed as an Executive Director on 10 February 2017.
The information in the table above confirms his earnings for his position as an Executive Director from 10 February 2017.
Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016 and remained an employee until 31 March 2017.
The information in the table above confirms her earnings for her position as an Executive Director up to 12 December 2016.
Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board on 10 February 2017 and remained an employee until 31 May 2017.
The information in the table above confirms her earnings for her position as an Executive Director up to 10 February 2017.
Benefits relate to the cost to the Company of private medical cover, private fuel, car allowance and financial tax planning advice.
Bonus payable in respect of the financial year includes any deferred element at face value at the date of award.
Further information about how the nil level of the award for the year ended 31 March 2017 was determined is provided on page 77.
The Committee determined that the 2014 LTIP awards which were due to vest in June 2017 should lapse in their entirety following exercise of negative discretion by the Committee.
The Committee also determined that the accelerated 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards granted to Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter should lapse in their entirety following exercise of negative discretion by the Committee.
The value of the LTIP in 2016 has been restated from the figures disclosed in the 2016 report, to reflect the actual share price on vesting of 244.0p and a dividend equivalent of 40.5p.
The Other column denotes the value of the 1 in 10 matching shares awarded under the Company Share Incentive Plan, of 180, following the investment by each individual of a lump sum of 1,800 at the beginning of the tax year.
It also includes 738 in respect of the intrinsic gain on 1,337 SAYE options granted in the year being equal to the 20% discount from a share price of 275.9p to arrive at the exercise price of 220.7p.
The pension benefit disclosed above in respect of Phil Bentley and Sandip Mahajan comprises the 20% cash allowance in lieu of a pension contribution.
The disclosures above in respect of Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxters pension benefits in 2017 comprise the 20% pension supplement along with the additional cash supplement.
From 1 April 2016, following changes in legislation impacting the tax efficiency of pension savings for higher earners, the Executive Directors who participate in the Groups defined benefit scheme ceased to accrue benefits in the scheme and instead received an additional cash supplement of equivalent value of 39,247 per annum.
In the previous financial year, they comprised the 20% pension supplement along with an actuarially derived value of the annually accrued pension benefits under the defined benefit pension scheme, net of personal contributions made by each Director.
This calculation was known as the net pension input amount and was affected by the number of years of scheme membership, the value of annually accrued benefits at each year end, inflation and a prescribed multiplication factor of 20.
74 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The net pension input amount for the Directors below included in the pension benefits disclosed above was: Years of scheme membership Year at 31 March 1 Ruby McGregor-Smith 2017 14 n a 2016 13 39,387 1 Suzanne Baxter 2017 5 n a 2016 4 32,606 Note: 1.
The Directors who participate in the scheme have ceased to accrue pension benefits in the scheme with effect from 1 April 2016.
They instead received an additional cash supplement of equivalent value of 39,247 each per annum.
Non-Executive Director remuneration subject to audit The fees for the Non-Executive Directors for the financial years ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016 are set out below: 1 2017 2016 000 000 Roger Matthews 185 185 2 David Jenkins 43 3 Larry Hirst 59 57 4 Crawford Gillies 15 Jack Boyer 60 60 5 Mark Reckitt 60 45 Total 364 405 Notes: 1.
All amounts were paid in cash and no other benefits were received in the year.
David Jenkins stepped down as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM on 13 July 2015 and retired as a NonExecutive Director on 31 December 2015.
Larry Hirst was appointed as Senior Independent Director from 14 July 2015.
Crawford Gillies stepped down as a Non-Executive Director at the AGM on 13 July 2015.
Mark Reckitt joined as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2015 and was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 14 July 2015. www.
com 75 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Base salary and benefits Effective 1 April 2016, the Remuneration Committee awarded average salary increases of 2.5% for the two Executive Directors which was in line with the average salary increases awarded to Mities salaried non-contract UK employees, resulting in the following base salaries being payable: Ruby McGregor-Smith 580,099 Suzanne Baxter 369,154 Commencing 1 November 2016 and to be first reviewed in April 2020, the annual base salary for Phil Bentley is as follows: Phil Bentley 900,000 Commencing 18 January 2017 and to be first reviewed in April 2018, the annual base salary for Sandip Mahajan is as follows: Sandip Mahajan 320,000 A review of Non-Executive Director fees was undertaken by the Board in March 2017 with the previous review having been undertaken in March 2014.
As a result of that review the fees for the year ending March 2018 were unchanged with the exception of the fee agreed by the Committee of 225,000 per annum for Derek Mapp who joined as Chairman-elect on 9 May 2017 and will take over as Chairman at the AGM on 26 July 2017.
A further review of Non-Executive fees will be undertaken in March 2018.
1 2018 2017 000 000 2 Chairman fees 225 185 3 Non-Executive Director core fees 52 52 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 7 7 Chairman of a Committee 8 8 Notes: 1.
The core fees of 52,000 per annum paid to each Non-Executive Director including the Chairman will total 263,000 for the year ending 31 March 2018.
This includes the fee for Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat who has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2017 and the fee for Derek Mapp who was appointed Chairman-elect on 9 May 2017.
Total fees including additional duties are expected to amount to 483,000 for the year ending 31 March 2018 364,000 actual for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Chairmans fee is inclusive of the Non-Executive Director core fee and no additional fees are paid to the Chairman where he is a chairman or is a member of other Committees.
The fee shown for 2018 is the annual fee for Derek Mapp.
For Non-Executive Directors, individual fees comprise the core fee and additional supplemental fees for chairing Committees where a greater responsibility and time commitment are required.
Benefits are as described in the remuneration policy table.
No changes are planned for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Pension subject to audit Pension provision for 2016 17 is as described in the remuneration policy table.
From 1 April 2016, following changes in legislation impacting the tax efficiency of pension savings for higher earners, the Executive Directors who participate in the Groups defined benefit scheme ceased to accrue benefits in the scheme and instead received an additional cash supplement.
In addition, the Directors received a salary supplement as described in the policy table.
The normal retirement age for the Directors is 65 and no additional benefits are available to the Directors upon early retirement.
Defined benefit pension scheme transfer values: Transfer value Contributions Increase in of pension made by accrued increase after Transfer value Transfer value the Director in pension over inflation, net of Normal retirement 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 the year the year contributions date 000 000 000 000 000 Ruby McGregor-Smith 22 February 441 361 0 0 0 2028 Suzanne Baxter 16 April 2033 117 92 0 0 0 In the prior year, the pension benefits of the Executive Directors were based on a pensionable salary capped at 150,000.
The Company made contributions to the Groups defined benefit scheme on behalf of the two Directors at a rate of 10.3% of the value of the capped salary.
The Company also contributed to the administrative costs of the pension scheme based on a percentage of salary at a rate of 4.5% of the capped salary.
The transfer value is an actuarially determined capital value of the pension benefits, based on prevailing market conditions at the time.
It is possible for transfer values to go down as well as up.
76 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Annual Bonus Plan Awards in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017 were considered under the Annual Bonus Plan.
The outcomes were determined as set out below.
At the beginning of the year the Committee set financial measures based on operating profit before other items for threshold, target and maximum levels of performance as follows: a threshold of 120.6m, a target of 127.0m and a maximum of 133.4m.
The out-turn was 6.3 m. This generated no pay-out for Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter under this element of the Plan.
The Committee also set strategic objectives relating to: facilities management: people services: people: back office and operational synergies: and capital allocation.
Having evaluated a range of outcomes and indicators of performance, the Committee determined that no bonus should be payable under this element to either Ruby McGregor-Smith or Suzanne Baxter.
On joining the Company on 1 November 2016, Phil Bentley became eligible to receive a bonus at on-target levels equivalent to 115% of base salary, pro-rated to reflect his period of service during the year.
The performance criteria were weighted 60% financial performance and 40% strategic performance based on a successful transition.
While Phil was eligible to receive a bonus, mindful of shareholders experience over the year, Phil has decided to waive this bonus.
Sandip Mahajan, who joined the Company on 18 January 2017, was not eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017.
He will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of base salary in respect of the year ending 31 March 2018.
Therefore, based on the Committees assessment of achievement of both the financial and the strategic objectives, the bonus was calculated as follows: Financial performance Strategic performance Total bonus payable % of % of % of % of % of salary salary salary % of salary % of salary % of Total Deferred payable at payable at payable at salary payable at salary at payable at salary bonus Cash shares threshold on-target maximum payable threshold on-target maximum payable 000 000 000 Phil Bentley 60 69 96 0 0 46 64 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Ruby McGregorSmith 60 90 110 0 0 25 50 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Suzanne Baxter 60 90 110 0 0 12.5 25 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The Annual Bonus Plan will be operated on similar terms for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Phil Bentleys maximum bonus opportunity for FY18 will continue to be 160% of salary.
His and Sandip Mahajans bonus of up to a maximum of 100% of salary will be payable by reference to performance against a blend of financial 70% of the bonus opportunity and personal strategic targets the remaining 30%.
The targets are at present commercially sensitive and so are not disclosed in this report.
However, as above, details of the targets will be disclosed in next years report.
com 77 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Details of LTIP vesting in June 2017 2014 award The Committee assessed the outcome of the 2014 LTIP awards granted under the plan in operation at the time against a basket of performance measures: Performance Vesting of portion of the award measure Weighting Performance range performance period three years ending 31 March 2017 Earnings Per 20% of 3% 8% pa Zero vesting if EPS growth, as adjusted by the Committee as Share EPS the award appropriate, is less than 3% pa.
If performance is equal to 3%, growth 25% of the award will vest.
If Mitie achieves 8% EPS growth pa, all the awards will vest.
Between these two points the proportion of awards vesting will be determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
Relative Total 20% of Outperformance Zero vesting if Mities TSR performance is less than the median of Shareholder the award against FTSE 350 the index.
If Mities TSR performance is equal to the median of the Return TSR Support Services index, 25% of the award will vest and if it exceeds the index median index TSR by 10% pa or more, all the awards will vest.
An underpin condition for underlying financial performance also applies.
Organic revenue 30% of 3% 6% pa with a Zero vesting if organic revenue growth is less than 3% pa.
If growth the award financial underpin performance is equal to 3% pa, 25% of the award will vest.
If Mitie based on the achieves 6% organic revenue growth pa, all the awards will vest.
achievement of Between these two points, the proportion of awards vesting will target margin be determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
Entire portion of of 5.5% pa award is subject to Mitie achieving an average 5.5% margin in the performance period.
Cash conversion 30% of 75% 85% pa Zero vesting if cash conversion is less than 75% pa. At 75%, 25% the award of the award will vest.
70% of the award will vest if Mitie achieves 80%.
Full vesting for this portion will occur if 85% pa is achieved.
Between 75% and 80% and 80% and 85%, the proportion of awards vesting will be determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
The Committee determined that the 2014 awards should lapse in their entirety following exercise of negative discretion by the Committee.
The 2015 LTIP awards were granted subject to the same performance conditions in relation to the performance period for the three years ending 31 March 2018.
78 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 LTIP awards granted in July 2016 In 2016, the Committee reviewed the continued appropriateness of the blend of targets applied to LTIP awards since 2013 and concluded that some changes should be made to the targets that are applied to the LTIP awards made in 2016 to further align the link between pay and strategy.
Reflecting best practice, the Committee consulted major shareholders in connection with these changes.
Following this consultation, awards were granted in July 2016.
Details of the awards made to the Executive Directors under the LTIP granted as nil-cost options are summarised below.
Performance Vesting of portion of the award measure Weighting Performance range performance period three years ending 31 March 2019 Earnings Per 25% of 3% 8% pa Zero vesting if EPS growth, as adjusted by the Committee as Share EPS the award appropriate, is less than 3% pa.
If performance is equal to 3%, 25% growth of the award will vest.
Relative Total 20% of Outperformance Zero vesting if Mities TSR performance is less than the median of Shareholder the award against the Business the Benchmark.
If Mities TSR performance is equal to the median Return TSR Support Services of the Benchmark, 25% of the award will vest and if it exceeds the subsector of the Benchmark median TSR by 10% pa or more, all the awards will vest.
FTSE 350 Support Between these two points the proportion of awards vesting will be Services index determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
An underpin condition for the Benchmark underlying financial performance also applies.
Strategic 25% of Zero vesting if the strategic objectives are not met.
Straight line objectives the award vesting between zero and maximum based on Remuneration Committee assessment of performance against objectives.
Cash conversion 30% of 75% 85% pa Zero vesting if cash conversion is less than 75% pa. At 75%, 25% of the award the award will vest.
The strategic objectives were linked to the Companys strategy that existed at the time and included succession planning for the Board and senior executives with associated development plans, improving the diversity and inclusion mix of the business, long-term sustainability of the FM business through technology and client development, and continued focus on the health and safety of our people.
What was granted in July 2016 subject to audit Number Face value Performance Performance % vesting at 1 Award Type of shares 000 % of salary conditions period threshold Ruby Performance Nil-cost 478,431 1,160 200% Performance Three financial 25% McGregor-Smith options conditions are years ending set out in the 31 March 2019 Suzanne Performance Nil-cost 304,456 738 200% 25% table above Baxter options Note: 1.
Number of shares was calculated based on the average of up to five business days preceding the date of grant giving a share price of 242.5p.
The Directors above were also granted 1,337 options under the Mitie Group plc 2011 SAYE scheme, details of which can be found on page 83.
In accordance with the rules of the relevant LTIP, accelerated vesting applied to the 2016 and 2015 LTIP grants for Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter.
The Committee determined that these awards should lapse in their entirety following exercise of negative discretion by the Committee.
com 79 Annual Report on Remuneration continued LTIP award granted in November 2016 On 29 November 2016, Phil Bentley was granted LTIP awards to the value of 200% of salary with Phil Bentley also purchasing shares in the Company equivalent to 400% of annual base salary, as set out on page 83.
The performance conditions attaching to these run to 31 March 2020 and are linked to the achievement of a bonus payment in the three financial years ending 31 March 2020.
More particularly, if Phil earns a bonus in one of these years, 25% of the award vests, with 67% vesting if a bonus is earned in two of the years and full vesting if a bonus is earned in all three years, noting that a typical bonus will not be paid in circumstances where a minimum financial target set by the Committee has not been achieved and or where a significant negative event has occurred in a year such as failure to pay a dividend.
The award is subject to a holding period, post vesting, with 50% of the shares being released in May 2020 after the end of the performance period, 25% being released in November 2020 and 25% in November 2021.
Further disclosure will be made during the performance period.
What was granted in November 2016 subject to audit Number Face value Performance Performance % vesting at 1 Award Type % of salary of shares 000 conditions period threshold Phil Bentley Performance Nil-cost 879,077 1,800 200% Linked to Three financial 25% options bonus payyears ending out 31 March 2020 Note: 1.
Number of shares was calculated based on the average of the five business days preceding the date of grant giving a share price of 204.8p.
The performance conditions that are to apply to awards made in 2017 will follow the same structure as for those granted in July 2016, as shown in the table on page 79.
Loss of office payments subject to audit Ruby McGregor-Smith Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016.
A summary of Ruby McGregor-Smiths departure terms was contained in the relevant RNS announcement.
Up to 31 March 2017, Ruby McGregor-Smith was available to support Phil Bentley to ensure a smooth transition.
Ruby McGregor-Smith continued to receive her salary, pension, car allowance and other contractual benefits until that date, at which point she ceased employment.
Ruby McGregor-Smith is entitled to receive a capped contribution of up to 76,000 ex VAT towards legal and outplacement fees incurred in connection with her departure, the precise amount of which will be based on the fees actually incurred.
Precise details of any payment to be made to Ruby McGregor-Smith and ongoing provision of any benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of her 12 month notice period have yet to be agreed and will be disclosed in next years Report.
As noted above, the Committee determined that: Ruby McGregor-Smith receive no bonus for FY17 Ruby McGregor-Smiths 2014, 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards lapse in full In accordance with the rules of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the award made to Ruby McGregor-Smith on 31 May 2016 is due to vest early.
Precise details of vesting will be disclosed in next years Report.
Ruby McGregor-Smiths awards under the all-employee SAYE Plan and Share Incentive Plan are treated in accordance with the terms of the respective plan rules.
This approach accords with the current remuneration policy.
80 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Suzanne Baxter Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board on 10 February 2017.
A summary of Suzanne Baxters departure terms was contained in the relevant RNS announcement.
Up to 31 May 2017, Suzanne Baxter was available to support Sandip Mahajan to ensure a smooth transition.
Suzanne Baxter continued to receive her salary, pension, car allowance and other contractual benefits until that date, at which point she ceased employment.
Suzanne Baxter is entitled to receive a capped contribution of up to 70,000 ex VAT towards legal and outplacement fees incurred in connection with her departure, the precise amount of which will be based on the fees actually incurred.
Precise details of any payment to be made to Suzanne Baxter and ongoing provision of any benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of her 12 month notice period have yet to be agreed and will be disclosed in next years Report.
As noted above, the Committee determined that: Suzanne Baxter receive no bonus for FY17 and will not participate in the FY18 bonus plan Suzanne Baxters 2014, 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards lapse in full Suzanne Baxters awards under the all-employee SAYE Plan and Share Incentive Plan are treated in accordance with the terms of the respective plan rules.
Payments to past Directors subject to audit No payments have been made to past Directors.
Change in CEO pay for the year compared to UK salaried employees The table below sets out the change in remuneration of the Chief Executive and Mities UK salaried non-contract population, which is considered the most appropriate group for comparison purposes.
1 % Salary Benefits Bonus 2 Chief Executive 2.5% -3.7% -100% 3 Average pay based on Mities UK salaried non-contract employees 4.1% 13.7% -100% Notes: 1.
Includes car car allowance, private medical benefit and private fuel.
Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down as Chief Executive on 12 December 2016 and Phil Bentley became Chief Executive from 12 December 2016.
To facilitate a year-on-year comparison, the change in CEO percentage shown is the change in Ruby McGregor-Smiths salary, benefits and bonus between FY16 and FY17 on an annualised basis.
Reflects the change in average annual pay for salaried non-contract UK employees employed throughout the two financial years ended 31 March 2017.
Salaried non-contract employees are those who are employed directly by Mitie Group and whose roles are not dedicated to the provision of client services.
com 81 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative spend on pay The reporting requirements state that the time period for the above TSR chart should be lengthened to ten years over time The table below shows the total cost of remuneration in the Group, compared with the dividends distributed and and we have therefore included a ten year chart below: share buybacks.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Change Aggregate employee remuneration 1,174 1,132 3.7% Equity dividends and share buybacks 62 57 8.8% Assessing pay and performance In the table below we provide a summary of the Chief Executives single figure remuneration over the past eight years, as well as the pay-out and vesting levels of our variable pay plans in relation to the maximum opportunity.
This is compared with historical TSR performance over the same period.
We have chosen these indices FTSE 250, FTSE 350 Support Services and FTSE 350 as they are widely recognised and Mitie has been a member of these indices during the period: 400 Share ownership subject to audit 350 Number of Percentage Percentage Compliance shares of salary held of target with share 300 owned as at Value of target Target as at achieved as at ownership 1 2 3 31 March 2017 holding shareholding 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 guidelines 250 Phil Bentley 1,852,656 1,800,000 926,328 400% 200% Achieved 200 Sandip Mahajan 0 320,000 125,353 0% 0% Not achieved but compliant 150 4 Ruby McGregor-Smith 639,612 1,160,198 454,480 281% 141% Achieved 100 4 Suzanne Baxter 280,714 738,308 289,215 194% 97% Not achieved Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar but compliant 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Mitie FTSE250 FTSE350 SS FTSE350 Notes: 1.
Includes shares owned by connected persons.
Calculated as 200% of base salary for Phil Bentley, Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter for the year ended 31 March 2017.
In accordance with 2017 Phil Bentleys service contract, he acquired shares worth 400% of salary on joining.
In accordance with the Companys Share Ownership policy, Sandip Ruby 2017 Mahajan is required to build and maintain, through the retention of vested share options, a shareholding of 200% of base salary.
Calculated as value of target holding divided by the share price of 194.3p on 21 November 2016 for Phil Bentley and the average share price of 255.3p for the five business days prior to the start of the financial year ended 31 March 2017 for Ruby McGregor-Smith, Suzanne Baxter and Sandip Mahajan.
Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016 and 10 February 2017 respectively: their 1 remuneration 1,703,031 2,324,443 2,431,773 2,105,131 1,447,266 1,525,824 2,448,161 530,628 479,073 shareholdings above are at those dates.
Suzanne Baxter had 186,745 vested but unexercised 2013 LTIP awards.
Annual bonus element actual Directors outstanding share interests subject to audit as a % of max 100% 100% 100% 85% 90% 50% 73% 0% waived The following tables provide the outstanding share interests for the Executive Directors: LTIP element Directors interests in options granted under the Mitie Group plc 2011 Save As You Earn Scheme actual vesting Options Options as a % of max 100% 100% 87.2% 57.2% 0% 25% 69.5% 0% n a outstanding outstanding Earliest Notes: as at Lapsed as at Exercise normal Year of 31 March Exercised Granted cancelled 31 March price exercise 1.
The single figure has been restated from the figure disclosed in the report last year, to reflect the actual share price on vesting of the LTIP in June 2016 4 4 grant 2016 in year in year in year 2017 p date of 244.0p.
Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down as Chief Executive on 12 December 2016.
Phil Bentley joined the Board on 1 November 2016 and assumed the position of Chief Executive on 12 December 2016.
The figures above include Phil Bentleys remuneration from 1 November 2016.
Executive Directors contributed 250 per month into the 2014 scheme.
Throughout the year the Executive Directors contributed 168 per month into the 2015 scheme.
Executive Directors contributed 82 per month into the 2016 scheme which started in December 2016.
Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016 and 10 February 2017 respectively: their outstanding share interests above are at those dates.
Suzanne Baxter cancelled her savings contracts on 26 January 2017.
82 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 TSR REBASED TO 100 The reporting requirements state that the time period for the above TSR chart should be lengthened to ten years over time and we have therefore included a ten year chart below: 250 200 150 100 50 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Mitie FTSE250 FTSE350 SS FTSE350 Share ownership subject to audit Number of Percentage Percentage Compliance shares of salary held of target with share owned as at Value of target Target as at achieved as at ownership 1 2 3 31 March 2017 holding shareholding 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 guidelines Phil Bentley 1,852,656 1,800,000 926,328 400% 200% Achieved Sandip Mahajan 0 320,000 125,353 0% 0% Not achieved but compliant 4 Ruby McGregor-Smith 639,612 1,160,198 454,480 281% 141% Achieved 4 Suzanne Baxter 280,714 738,308 289,215 194% 97% Not achieved but compliant Notes: 1.
In accordance with Phil Bentleys service contract, he acquired shares worth 400% of salary on joining.
In accordance with the Companys Share Ownership policy, Sandip Mahajan is required to build and maintain, through the retention of vested share options, a shareholding of 200% of base salary.
Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016 and 10 February 2017 respectively: their shareholdings above are at those dates.
Directors outstanding share interests subject to audit The following tables provide the outstanding share interests for the Executive Directors: Directors interests in options granted under the Mitie Group plc 2011 Save As You Earn Scheme Options Options outstanding outstanding Earliest as at Lapsed as at Exercise normal Year of 31 March Exercised Granted cancelled 31 March price exercise 4 4 grant 2016 in year in year in year 2017 p date Ruby McGregorSmith 1 2014 3,459 3,459 260.2 Sep-17 2 2015 2,381 2,381 254.0 Dec-18 3 2016 1,337 1,337 220.7 Dec-19 Suzanne Baxter 1 2014 3,459 3,459 260.2 Sep-17 2 2015 2,381 2,381 254.0 Dec-18 3 2016 1,337 1,337 220.7 Dec-19 Notes: 1.
Suzanne Baxter cancelled her savings contracts on 26 January 2017. www.
com 83 TSR REBASED TO 100 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors interests in shares purchased under the Mitie Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2011 Shares Number of Number of outstanding partnership matching Shares as at shares shares outstanding 31 March acquired awarded as at 31 1 2 3 4,5 2016 in year in year March 2017 Ruby McGregor-Smith 3,401 784 68 4,253 Suzanne Baxter 3,401 869 68 4,338 Notes: 1.
Figure comprises 3,123 purchased shares plus 278 matching shares.
Shares were acquired at a market price of 267.9p on 16 May 2016.
Executive Directors contributed the full annual amount of 1,800 permitted under the Plan.
Shares acquired through dividend reinvestment 4 August 2016 and 1 February 2017 have also been included up to date of stepping down from the Board.
Matching shares were purchased in the market at a price of 267.9p on 16 May 2016.
Awards of matching shares must in normal circumstances be held for at least three years from the date of award and are subject to forfeiture if corresponding partnership shares are withdrawn during that period.
The market price of the Companys shares as at 31 March 2017 was 221.9p.
The highest and lowest prices during the year were 290.0p and 180.4p respectively.
Directors interests in shares granted under the Mitie Group plc 2010 Deferred Bonus Plan Shares Shares outstanding outstanding Earliest as at as at normal Year of 31 March Granted in Lapsed Vested in 31 March vesting 1 2,3 4,5 grant 2016 year in year year 2017 date Ruby McGregor-Smith 2014 71,670 71,670 2015 2016 33,149 33,149 May-18 Suzanne Baxter 2014 23,651 23,651 2015 2016 Notes: 1.
The 2014 award was granted on 28 May 2014 at a grant price of 323.7p.
No award of shares was made under the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2015.
The 2016 award was granted on 31 May 2016 at a grant price of 281.7p.
The 2014 awards vested on 31 May 2016 and were transferred to the participants.
At the date these awards vested the market price of the Companys shares was 281.7p.
The awards attract dividend equivalents which are accrued from grant date and paid out on vesting.
84 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors interests in nil-cost options granted under the Mitie Group plc 2007 and the 2015 Long Term Incentive Plans Options Options outstanding outstanding Earliest as at as at normal Year of 31 March Granted in Lapsed Exercised in 31 March Exercise exercise 1 2 3,4 5 grant 2016 year in year year 2017 price date Phil Bentley Nov 2016 879,077 879,077 Nil-cost May-20 Ruby McGregor-Smith 2013 527,371 160,849 366,522 Nil-cost Jun-16 2014 345,261 345,261 Nil-cost Jun-17 2015 356,526 356,526 Nil-cost Jul-18 Jul 2016 478,431 478,431 Nil-cost Jul-19 Suzanne Baxter 2013 268,698 81,953 186,745 Nil-cost Jun-16 2014 219,711 219,711 Nil-cost Jun-17 2015 226,880 226,880 Nil-cost Jul-18 Jul 2016 304,456 304,456 Nil-cost Jul-19 Notes: 1.
The performance criteria applicable to the 2014 award reflect the basket of measures relating to TSR, EPS, organic revenue growth and cash conversion set out on page 78.
The performance criteria applicable to the 2015 award are the same as those for the 2014 award.
The performance criteria applicable to the 2016 awards are provided on pages 79 and 80.
The Committee assessed the extent to which the performance conditions applicable to the 2013 awards were met and determined that they should vest at 69.5% of the original award granted.
The Committee also assessed the extent to which the performance conditions applicable to the 2014, 2015 and July 2016 awards were met and determined that they should lapse in their entirety following exercise of negative discretion by the Committee.
Awards made since 2015 are subject to an additional holding period.
Director share ownership Number of ordinary shares Number of ordinary beneficially owned shares beneficially owned as at 31 March 2017 as at 31 March 2016 or date of cessation if earlier or date of appointment if later Executive Directors 1 Phil Bentley 1,852,656 0 Sandip Mahajan 0 0 2 Ruby McGregor-Smith 639,612 567,090 2 Suzanne Baxter 280,714 256,126 Non-Executive Directors Roger Matthews 100,000 100,000 Larry Hirst 25,000 25,000 Jack Boyer 5,000 5,000 Mark Reckitt 4,000 4,000 Notes: 1.
Phil Bentley joined the Board on 1 November 2016.
Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016 and 10 February 2017 respectively: their shareholdings above are shown at those dates and at 31 March 2016. www.
com 85 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Share dilution The Company manages dilution rates within the standard guidelines of 10% of issued ordinary share capital in respect of all employee schemes and 5% in respect of discretionary schemes.
In calculating compliance with these guidelines the Company allocates available headroom on a ten-year flat-line basis, making adjustments for projected lapse rates and projected increases in issued share capital.
LTIP and deferred bonus awards are satisfied through the market purchase of shares held by the Mitie Group plc Employee Benefit Trust.
The potential dilution of the Company's issued share capital is set out below in respect of all awards granted in the last ten years under the Company's equity-based incentive schemes which are being satisfied through the allotment of new shares or treasury shares.
Share dilution at 31 March 2017 Dilution All share plans maximum 10% 7.6% Discretionary share plans maximum 5% 4.0% Shareholder voting Mitie remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Executive Directors remuneration, the Group seeks to understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail here any actions in response to it.
A resolution to approve the Directors remuneration policy as set out in the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015 was passed at the Companys 2015 AGM.
At the Companys 2016 AGM, a resolution was passed to approve the 2016 Directors remuneration report excluding the summary of the Directors remuneration policy.
The results of the votes on these resolutions were as follows: Votes in Votes Votes 1 Number of votes favour against withheld 2015 Directors remuneration policy 205.1m 14.0m 21.4m 2015 AGM 93.6% 6.4% 2016 Directors remuneration report 227.2m 21.2m 1.2m 2016 AGM 91.5% 8.5% Note: 1.
Votes withheld are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
Remuneration Committee and its advisors The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisors where appropriate.
FIT Remuneration Consultants FIT were appointed by the Committee in December 2013 to provide independent advice on executive remuneration.
FIT attended Committee meetings and provided advice and analysis of executive remuneration.
The advisors provide no other services to the Company save in relation to services connected to executive remuneration and share plans and also comply with the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
FITs total cost of advice to the Committee for the year was 70,246 such fees being charged in accordance with FITs standard terms of business.
The Committee specifically considered the position of FIT and was satisfied that the advice the Committee received was objective and independent, given that no other services were provided to the Company.
86 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report: other disclosures The Directors present their annual report, together with the The Articles can be amended in accordance with their audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, provisions, the Companies Act 2006 and related for the year ended 31 March 2017. legislation.
A copy of the Articles is available at www.
The following information is incorporated into the Directors report: other disclosures by reference: Powers of the Company to issue or buy back its own shares Strategic report on pages 2 to 37: At the 2016 AGM shareholders authorised: The Chairmans introduction to corporate governance on the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate pages 41 and 42: nominal amount of 2,969,340 representing one-third of The Board report on pages 43 to 48: the issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 25 May 2016: Audit Committee report on pages 49 to 59: the dis-application of pre-emption rights over Nomination Committee report on pages 60 and 61: allotted shares up to an aggregate nominal value equal Directors remuneration report on pages 62 to 86: to 890,802, equating to 10% of Mities issued share Directors responsibilities statement on pages 93 and 94: capital excluding treasury shares and 9.72% of the and issued share capital including treasury shares, each as at 25 May 2016: and Notes to the financial statements as detailed in this section.
the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 35,632,084 Ordinary Shares For the purposes of compliance with paragraphs 4.1.
5R 2 representing 10% of the issued share capital as at and 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 25 May 2016 excluding treasury shares.
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the strategic report and this Directors report: other disclosures including the These standard authorities will expire on 30 September sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by 2017 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2017, whichever reference comprise the management report.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the Notice of 2016 AGM Principal Group activities and shareholders are referred to the Notice of 2017 The Company is the holding company of the Group.
The AGM, which contains similar provisions in respect principal activity of the Company is to provide management of the Companys share capital available at services to the Group.
The Groups activities are focused on www.
the provision of strategic outsourcing services.
The detailed During the year, the Directors utilised the above strategy for the Group can be found on pages 4 and 5 of the Strategic report.
Further details of the subsidiary authorities to allot 6,070,568 Ordinary Shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 151,764 to employees undertakings of the Company are listed in Note 41 to the financial statements.
participating in Mities share schemes and to minority shareholders in consideration for shares purchased in The Group operates in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, connection with Mitie Model investments.
Guernsey, Jersey, Germany, France, Finland, Norway, The Company undertook market purchases of 9,055,995 Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain, Poland, Switzerland, of its own shares during the year representing 2.5% of the Belgium, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and UAE.
issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2017.
Shares and shareholders The shares equated to an aggregate nominal value of 226,400 and the total aggregate amount paid was Share capital and powers of shareholders 24,229,063 including expenses.
The Group is financed through both equity share capital and debt instruments.
Details of the Companys share capital Following the exercise of awards under the Mitie Group plc are given in Note 32 to the financial statements and the 2011 Save As You Earn Scheme and the Mitie Group plc detail of its debt instruments is set out in Note 27 to the 2001 and 2011 Executive Share Option Schemes 1,180,406 financial statements.
Ordinary Shares were distributed from Treasury.
The Company has a single class of shares being 2.5p The total number of Ordinary Shares held by the Company ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares have no in treasury as at 31 March 2017 therefore reduced to right to any fixed income and each Ordinary Share has the 9,280,093 representing 2.5% of the issued share right to one vote per share at general meetings of the capital of the Company at 31 March 2017.
Under the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, holders of Ordinary Shares Significant interests in the Companys share capital are entitled to participate in any dividends pro-rata to As at 31 May 2017, the Company has been notified of their holding.
the following significant holdings of voting rights in its Ordinary Shares under the Disclosure Guidance and In accordance with the Articles, the Board may propose and Transparency Rules: pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
com 87 Directors report: other disclosures continued Percentage of Under the terms of certain shareholders agreements and share capital at articles of association relating to Mitie Model companies, Number of the date of minority shareholders in such companies may provide an Ordinary Shares notification option for the purchase by the Company of their minority Silchester International shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in Investors LLP 57,725,383 16.05% respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length FMR LLC 32,440,297 8.95% basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally Harris Associates L. P. 18,393,003 5.12% applicable for other transfers under the Mitie Model.
In consideration for these purchases, the Company Brandes Investment generally has the option to settle payment in cash Partners LP 18,117,242 5.05% or in Ordinary Shares.
Heronbridge 18,366,728 5.00% Shareholder engagement Changes that have occurred between the end of the period The Board is committed to an ongoing, pro-active under review and 9 June 2017, the latest practicable date dialogue between the Company and its shareholders.
A before approval of the report, are as follows: full programme, led by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Percentage of Financial Officer, of formal and informal events, institutional share capital at investor meetings and presentations is held throughout Number of the date of the year.
Ordinary Shares notification STRS Ohio 11,000,000 3.06% The Board receives an investor relations report at each Board meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, Details of the Directors interests in the Companys share investor relations activity and major movements in capital are set out in the Directors remuneration report on shareholdings.
The Board is also regularly updated and is pages 83 to 85. provided with investor feedback, stockbroker updates and detailed analyst reports following the half-year and full-year Restrictions on the trading of Mitie shares results presentations.
The Chairman is responsible for Ordinary Shares that are issued as consideration upon ensuring that the Board is made aware of the issues and the acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority concerns of the major shareholders.
shareholders in subsidiaries of the Group that participate in the Mitie Model generally have contractual restrictions The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available placed upon them that both prevent the transfer of such for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The shares and or attach specific claw-back provisions for Board encourages an ongoing dialogue between the periods of up to two years following allotment.
Recipients Directors and investors and all Directors were present at the of Ordinary Shares received in this way are contractually 2016 AGM.
restricted from selling the shares issued as consideration, generally for a maximum of two years.
Latest Group information, financial reports, corporate governance and sustainability matters, half-year and fullThere are no specific restrictions on the size of any year results presentations, major shareholder information shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both and all announcements are made available to shareholders governed by the provisions of the Articles.
via the Mitie website www.
com which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements entered into by Company shareholders that may result in restrictions Electronic communications on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person The Directors remain committed to improving and extending has any special rights of control over the Companys the electronic methods by which the Company share capital.
communicates with its shareholders, not only allowing the latest information on the Group to be provided more The Group operates a Share Trading and Insider Dealing efficiently but recognising the environmental benefits.
The Procedure which provides a framework to identify persons Board encourages each shareholder to join the growing who may have access to inside information relating to the number of investors electing to receive their information Company and explains the rules applicable to them for electronically and further details on how to register are dealing in Company shares.
Individuals who may have provided in the Shareholder information section.
access to such information are informed individually and required to read, understand and follow the procedures Significant agreements change of control detailed in the procedure.
There are a number of agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Employee share schemes and plans Company such as bank facility agreements and other Details of employee share schemes and long term incentive financial arrangements, employee share scheme rules and plans are set out in Note 37 to the financial statements.
articles of association of certain Mitie Model companies.
Details of awards made during the year to, and held by, None of these are considered to be significant in terms of Executive Directors are set out in the Directors their likely impact on the normal course of business of the remuneration report on pages 83 to 85.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs solely because of a change of control.
88 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Director commitments Directors Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments Board of Directors outside the Group provided permission is sought from The members of the Board, and their biographical details the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and that including details of Committee chairmanships and other the additional appointments do not interfere with the positions held, are set out on pages 38 to 40.
Directors ability to discharge their duties effectively.
To comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code The commitments outside the Group of each Executive the Code, the Directors with the exception of the Chairman Director are detailed in the Directors remuneration report will submit themselves for election or on page 72.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain re-election at the forthcoming AGM and details are fees earned from any external appointments.
provided in the Notice of AGM which is available at www.
The commitments outside the Group of the Chairman and each Non-Executive Director are included on pages 38 During the year, Non-Executive Director independence to 40.
The Chairman does not hold any significant was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that, commitments outside of the Group.
as at 31 March 2017, all Non-Executive Directors were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report material relationship that could interfere with their ability and Accounts to discharge their duties effectively.
As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Director development to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides The Chairman regularly meets with both the Executive the information necessary for shareholders to assess the and Non-Executive Directors to discuss specific director Companys position and performance, business model and development and training needs.
When arriving at this position the Board was evaluation also addresses these requirements and ensures assisted by a number of processes including the following: that the appropriate level of knowledge, understanding and expertise of the Board is sufficiently maintained.
the Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management with overall co-ordination by the Group Director appointments General Counsel and Company Secretary to ensure With regard to the appointment and replacement of consistency across the relevant sections: Directors, the Company is governed by the Articles, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
a review is undertaken to assess whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable Directors conflicts of interest using a set of pre-defined indicators such as consistency The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and with internally reported information, investor management of Directors conflicts of interests, in communications and relative performance in the industry : accordance with the Articles, which has operated effectively comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report and during the year.
Any potential situation or transactional Accounts are undertaken by the Executive Directors and conflict must be reported as soon as possible to the other senior management: Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conflict is authorised under the an advanced draft is reviewed by the Group General statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles to Counsel and Company Secretary and external legal the Board, such conflict is kept under ongoing review.
advisors: and the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to Director indemnities consideration by the Board.
The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance, providing appropriate cover for any legal action Employees and communications with employees brought against its directors and or officers.
The Articles Details of Mities employment policies, consultation practices extend the protection provided to directors in respect of and how it communicates with its employees are included in any litigation against directors relating to their position as the Sustainability and People sections of our website.
a director of the Company, and specifically provide that the Company may indemnify directors against any liability Disabled persons incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach Details in respect of the Groups approach to employing, of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and training and developing the careers of disabled people can that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual be found in the Sustainability section of our website.
directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company, to pay any criminal or regulatory fine against them and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
com 89 Directors report: other disclosures continued Events after the balance sheet date Future developments Following the year end the Group approached its lenders to The Strategic report sets out the Boards view on the future seek their agreement to an amendment to covenant development of the Group.
calculation definitions, to provide flexibility in response to accounting issues raised in the balance sheet review Research and development process.
The lenders provided their consent to this Given the nature of the Groups activities, it does not carry amendment on 7 June 2017. out any material research and development work.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Political donations The annual report is required to contain certain information The Company included a resolution in its 2016 AGM notice under Listing Rule 9.8.
Where this information has not to shareholders in relation to the ability to make political been cross-referenced within the Group financial donations.
Although Mities long-standing policy of not statements, it can be found in the following sections: making any political donations will continue, it is possible that certain routine activities including charitable donations Details of long-term Directors remuneration undertaken by Mitie might unintentionally fall within the wide incentive schemes report pages 62 to 86: and definition of payments constituting political donations and Note 37 to the accounts expenditure as set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution, which was duly passed, granted the Company Shareholder waivers Directors report: other the relevant statutory authority until the 2017 AGM subject of dividends and disclosures on this page to a total aggregate cap for Mitie and its subsidiary future dividends companies of 50,000.
In respect of shareholder waivers of dividends and future Finance dividends, in addition to the agreement by the trustees of Financial results and dividends the Mitie Group plc Employee Benefit Trust to waive A detailed commentary on the operational and financial dividends payable on the Groups shares it holds for results of the Group for the year is contained within the satisfying awards under various Mitie Group plc share strategic report and the Finance review on pages 14 to 29. plans, in accordance with Section 726 of the Companies The loss before tax from continuing operations for the Act 2006 no dividends can be paid to the Company in financial year is 58.2m 2016: 91.9m profit.
respect of the shares it holds in treasury.
The Directors declared an interim dividend of 4.0p There are no other disclosures to be made under Listing per Ordinary Share 2016: 5.4p with a total value of Rule 9.8.
14.1m 2016: 19.2m which was paid to shareholders None of the shareholders is considered to be a Controlling on 1 February 2017.
Shareholder as defined in Listing Rule 6.1.
The Directors do not propose to recommend a final dividend Going concern for the year, given the current trading performance of the Company.
The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related The total dividend per Ordinary Share for the year ended Financial and Business Reporting issued in September 2014.
The Groups business activities, together with factors likely The Company operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan to affect its future development, performance and position DRIP which allows shareholders to build their holding by are set out in the Strategic report as referred to on pages 2 using the cash dividend to purchase additional ordinary to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, shares in Mitie.
Further details on the operation of the liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the DRIP and how to apply can be found in the Shareholder Finance Review on pages 26 to 29.
In addition, Note 28 to information section and are available from Mities Registrar.
the consolidated financial statements includes details of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its During the year, the trustees of the Companys Employee capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its Benefit Trust waived dividends on Ordinary Shares held.
financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Financing liabilities The Groups financial instruments include bank borrowing facilities, finance leases, overdrafts, US private placement loan notes and performance guarantees.
Various derivatives are used to manage interest, currency and other risks when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 27 to the financial statements.
90 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going Disclosure of information to the auditors concern, the Board reviews and approves the annual budget Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of including 12 month forecasts of cash flows and borrowing this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: requirements.
The Board reviews the Groups sources of so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit available funds and the level of headroom available against information being information required by the Companys its committed borrowing facilities.
The Groups financial auditors in the preparation of their report of which the forecasts, taking into account possible sensitivities in trading Companys auditors are unaware: and performance, indicate that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its committed borrowing facilities.
he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any The Group benefits from a committed facility of 275.0m, relevant audit information and to establish that the which will mature in July 2021.
Together with the 251.8m Companys auditors are aware of such information.
US Private Placement notes, this gives the Group total committed funding of 526.8m, of which 257.9m was This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in undrawn at 31 March 2017. accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Groups US Private Placement notes and bank debt Culture contain certain financial covenants.
The primary ratios are Mitie has appointed a new executive management team and net debt to EBITDA and EBITDA to net finance costs.
As part of that strategy, it will covenants are tested on a rolling 12 month basis as at the develop a new Mitie Way of carrying on business.
The Mitie March and September reporting dates.
At 31 March 2017, Way will have many elements including vision, culture, values both covenant tests were passed, following the successful and branding.
The vision has been already been defined and negotiation of a waiver to exclude judgemental, non-cash seeks to take Mitie Beyond FMto a Connected items relating to the balance sheet review.
At this stage, our new culture and values forecasting to remain within its banking covenants during remain under development and will be critical to our future the year to 31 March 2018 and has stress-tested these success.
The new culture will cover all aspects of the calculations for reasonable possible adverse variances in business, from who we are to what we do and how we trading and cash performance.
While recognising that there do it and will incorporate the elements of our existing One can be no absolute certainty, the Directors believe that Code which includes health and safety, sustainability, these covenant tests will be met.
diversity and equality, bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest.
financial and non-financial accounting and Based on the above, the Directors consider it reasonable to reporting.
We expect that this work will be completed in assume that the Group has adequate resources to continue 2017 and we will put the new culture and values on our its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, website when they are completed.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Viability statement This statement is detailed in full on page 37.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 edition of the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period to 31 March 2020 taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks set out in the strategic report.
Based on this assessment the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group is and will continue to be viable.
com 91 Directors report: other disclosures continued Sustainability We have continued to increase our focus on the evaluation of our environmental impacts and have worked with the Carbon Trust in order to continually assess policies, processes and performance.
Our environmental performance has continued to improve.
Details of the Groups emissions during the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out on the Companys website www.
Current reporting period: 01 04 2016 31 03 2017 We depend on our local communities to provide the engaged and talented people we need to deliver great service and in return we support them through a wide range of initiatives.
Over the past year, we have donated time and money, raised awareness and funds, and hosted a range of events for local people to participate in and enjoy.
AGM Mities AGM will be held on 26 July 2017 at 11:30am at UBS, 5 Broadgate, London, EC2M 2QS.
By order of the Board Peter Dickinson Company Secretary 12 June 2017 92 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report: statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the remuneration report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements that Directors requires: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
com 93 Directors report: statement of Directors responsibilities continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and for the preparation of a Directors remuneration report which complies with the relevant requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the UKLAs Listing Rules and the UKLAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement To the best of each Directors knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Phil Bentley Sandip Mahajan Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 12 June 2017 12 June 2017 94 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
