Annual Report 2017 120 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration report contains details of the Directors remuneration policy that will govern the Companys future remuneration payments.
The policy below sets out the remuneration policy we intend to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from 6 July 2017, the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
Until such approval the current remuneration policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, will apply.
It is the intention that the new policy will apply for a period of three years from approval.
Any key changes in policy have been highlighted in the proposed new policy.
The policy part of the remuneration report will be displayed on the Companys website, at www.
co. uk investors, immediately after the 2017 AGM.
Executive Director remuneration Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process Fixed remuneration Base salary Reviewed by the Committee at least annually and assessed having regard to Company To provide a market competitive performance, individual responsibilities, ination, as well as salary levels in comparable salary which takes into account organisations particularly within the listed property sector and taking account of salary individual responsibilities and policy within the rest of the Group.
attracts and retains talent in the labour market in which theExecutive is employed.
Benets Benets principally comprise life insurance, health insurance, private healthcare To provide cost-effective benets subscriptions, travel expenses and membership subscriptions.
A company car or that are valued by the recipient company car allowance may be provided although it is not the Companys current andare appropriately competitive.
practice to provide either to current Executive Directors.
Other benets may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benets package is appropriately competitive and reects individual circumstances.
Benets are reviewed annually andtheir value is not pensionable.
Pension All Executive Directors receive a contribution to their personal pension plan and or To provide a framework to save receive a cash equivalent.
This cash equivalent is not treated as salary for the purposes for retirement that is appropriately of determining bonus or incentive awards.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 121 The Companys policy is to provide remuneration packages that fairly reward the Executive Directors for the contribution they have made to the business and to ensure that the packages are appropriately competitive to promote the longterm success of the Company.
The policy is to align the directors interests with those of shareholders and to incentivise the directors to meet the Companys financial and strategic priorities by making a significant proportion of remuneration performance related.
The Companys strategic objectives are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 75.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy outlined in the table below is in the best interests of shareholders, does not raise any environmental, social or governance issues and does not promote excessive risk-taking: Key changes to last Maximum opportunity Performance metrics approved policy Base salary increases will be in applied in line with Individual and Company performances In light of the latest the outcome of the review.
areconsiderations in setting base salary.
regulatory guidance a salary maximum has In the normal course of events, increases in the been stated.
It should base salaries will not exceed the average increase be noted that all caps for employees.
Increases may be made above are simply to regulatory this level to take account of market alignment guidance and do not to around mid-market levels of comparable represent an aspiration.
organisations particularly within the listed property sector and individual circumstances such as: increase in scope and responsibility: and to reect the individuals development and performance in the role e. g. for a new appointment where base salary may be increased over time rather than set directly atthe level oftheprevious incumbent or marketlevel.
The Committee is, however, mindful of the needto treat comparisons with caution to avoidanupward ratchet of remuneration levels.
The salary maximum will be 650,000 as increased by RPI from adoption of this policy.
Set at a level which the Committee considers: Not applicable.
Appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity particularly withinthe listed property sector : and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on the role oran individuals circumstances such asrelocation.
benefit values vary year on year depending on premiums and, therefore, the maximum value is the cost of the provision of these benets.
However, the aggregate value of contractual and non-contractual benets received by each Executive Director based on the value included in theindividuals annual P11D tax calculation shall not exceed100,000 per annum with this maximum increasing annually at the rate of RPI from 1 April 2014.
The contribution is a maximum of 20%.
The current Executive Directors as at 1 April 2017  equivalent equalto 20% ofbase salary.
Governance Annual Report 2017 122 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process Variable remuneration Annual Bonus Plan The Annual Bonus Plan is reviewed annually at the start of the financial year to ensure Links reward to the annual bonus opportunity, performance measures and weightings are appropriate and performance targets, which are continue to support the Companys strategy.
setat the beginning of the financial The bonus is paid in cash following the end of the financial year.
year in line with the Companys Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of personal misconduct and strategy.
or where accounts or information relevant to performance areshown to be materially Ensures an alignment between wrong and the bonus paid was higher than should have been thecase.
the operation of the Companys The target bonus is 75% of base salary.
remuneration policy and financial Threshold bonus is not more than 30% of base salary with 0%payable if the threshold measures whilst also ensuring isnot met.
additional operational measures are targeted to encourage a holisticapproach to performance.
Performance shares under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Rewards and retains Executives The 2010 Plan was approved by shareholders in July 2010 and further changes will be aligning them with shareholder submitted to the 2017 AGM to permit the LTIP to operate as a sole long-term incentive interests over a longer timeframe.
arrangement going forward in line with developments in best practice.
Ensures an alignment between LTIP Participants are eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares or nil price the operation of the Companys remuneration policy and the options Performance shares.
Companys KPIs of achieving General terms sustained NAV growth, above Awards may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
benchmark total property returns An award may, at the discretion of the Committee, include the right to receive cash and superior shareholder returns.
orshares on vesting equal in value to the dividends payable on such number of sharessubject to the award which vest, for the period between grant and vesting.
A two-year post-vesting holding period will apply to the net of tax number of awards for future awards.
Awards will typically be structured as nil cost options exercisable from the end of any applicable holding period.
Subject to clawback and malus provisions, for all employees in situations of personal misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong and vesting was higher than should havebeen the case, for malus only, where there are sufciently exceptional circumstances which impact the reputation of the Company.
The threshold vesting is 20% of awards with straight line vesting to 100% for maximum performance.
Awards under the LTIP may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation ofsharecapital.
Quantum The Committee reviews the quantum of awards annually.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 123 Key changes to last Maximum opportunity Performance metrics approved policy The maximum bonus is 150% of base salary.
At least 75% of the bonus will be linked to Removed the ability keynancial measures, with the balance to make awards in linked to personal or strategicobjectives.
excess of 150% of base salary in exceptional The performance metrics are set by the circumstances.
The performance claried to set out the period for the Annual Bonus Plan targets current practice of islinked to the Companys financial year.
permitting up to 20% The Committee retains the ability to adjust of each element to be the targets and or set different measures payable for achievement ifevents occur which cause it to determine of the threshold level that the conditions are no longer appropriate ofperformance.
and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose andarenot materially less difficult to satisfy.
Further details on the measures for the financial year 2017 18 are set out in the Annualreport on remuneration on page 108.
LTIP Performance is assessed over not less than The consolidation of the Up to 300% of salary.
a three-year performance period against LTIP and Share Matching relevant shareholder value, financial and Plan SMP into a single property related metrics e. g. TSR, NAV plan.
The maximum limit orTAR growth and TPR.
of the single plan is300% which is the same as the The performance metrics are set by the combined limit of the Remuneration Committee each year based LTIP 200% and SMP on the strategic priorities of the business 100% in the previous at that time, but no less than 50% will policy.
As provided for in The Committee retains the ability to the previous policy, adjust the targets and or set different dividends may accrue measures if events occur which cause it to forthe LTIP awards determine that the conditions are no longer which vest in practice, appropriate and the amendment is required the dividend accrual has so that the conditions achieve their original onlybeen applied to purpose and are not materially less difficult theSMP to date.
Introduction of a two Further details on the measures for year post-vesting 2017 18 are set out in the Annual report holding period.
Governance Annual Report 2017 124 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report Purpose and linktostrategy Operation and process All-employee share plans Encourages Executive Directors The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP under which all employees, and employees to acquire shares including Executive Directors, may be awarded free shares and may purchase shares in order to increase the alignment which can be matched on a two for one basis.
The Companys current practice is to of interests with shareholders over operate partnership and matching shares only.
If the shares are held in a trust for at least thelonger term.
three years and the employee does not leave the Company during that period, then the matched shares may be retained by the individual subject to some relief against income tax and national insurance charges.
Dividends are also paid directly to participants on all plan shares.
In 2010, shareholders approved a Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE for all employees which is not currently operated but which might be utilised in the future.
Under the SAYE, participants which may include Executive Directors may make monthly contributions over a savings period linked to the grant of an option with an exercise price which may be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the underlying shares at grant.
Awards under the SIP and SAYE may be adjusted to reect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Shareholding policy To ensure that Executive Directors Executive Directors are expected to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary interests are aligned with those shares in the Company equivalent in value to no less than 300% of base salary.
ofshareholders over a longer Inaddition, any Executive Directors will be required to invest one-third of their after timehorizon.
tax bonus in ordinary shares in the Company until they meet the guideline.
Executive Directors will be expected to retain all awards vesting after the sale ofsufcient number to meet any tax liability until the guideline has been met.
Notes to the Future Policy Table 1.
Performance measures and targets Shortand long-term performance measures will be selected by the Committee in order to provide a direct connection to the Companys strategy by being linked to the key fundamental performance indicators at the time.
In normal circumstances, they would be expected to include metrics such as TPR capital growth, NAV or TAR targets and relative TSR performance.
Relative measures will be assessed against a relevant IPD index and or an appropriate group of other UK listed real estate companies with similar operations.
Absolute measures are set following a robust budget setting process which takes into account internal financial indicators as well as a broader view of the market environment.
The targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP for 2017 18 are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 108 and 109.
As referred to in the CommitteeChairmans Statement on page 106 it is intended that, other than in exceptional circumstances, the TAR range be set at 4% to 10% per annum foreach year of this policy.
The awards are also subject to an underpin under which the level of vesting may be reduced in certain circumstances.
The Committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity around GPEs business, disclosing individuals targets for the Annual Bonus Plan in advance would not be in the best interests of shareholders or the Company.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at theend ofperformance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees of GPE are entitled to base salary and benets on the same basis, with quantum of awards being set at levels commensurate with their role.
All employees participate in an employee annual bonus plan, with quantum of awards being set at levels commensurate with their role and with performance measures, similar to the executive scheme, based on Group performance and against personal objectives.
Senior managers receive LTIP awards under the 2010 Plan with quantum of awards being set at levels commensurate with their role.
All employees are eligible to participate in the Company SIP and the SAYE on the same terms as the Executive Directors.
Employees who joined the Company before April 2002 are members of the Companys dened benefit pension plan, and all other employees are eligible tojoin the Companys dened contribution pension plan and receive a contribution of up to 10% of salary.
Changes to remuneration policy from previous policy The changes to previous policy have been noted in the table above.
The inclusion of caps does not represent any aspiration.
Discretion The Committee will operate the annual bonus, LTIP and SMP awards according to their respective rules and ancillary documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans as noted in the policy table and in the recruitment remuneration and payments for loss of ofce sections as relevant.
Any use of these discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual report on remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultations with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or wait for shareholder approval.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors are set out on pages 115 and 116 of the Annual report on remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms, in line with the policy set out in the policy table or under the authority of the previously approved remuneration policy as will other legacy arrangements, including those awarded prior to promotion to the Board.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 125 Key changes to last Maximum opportunity Performance metrics approved policy Under the SIP, maximum participation will be in line As is typical under HMRC-approved allNo changes.
with the prevailing maximum limits set by HMRC employee plans, there are no performance under the relevant legislation.
Under the SAYE, maximum participation will be in line with the prevailing maximum limits set by HMRC under the relevant legislation.
Guidelines have been increased previously 100% of salary.
Non-Executive Director remuneration Purpose and link Performance Element tostrategy Operation and process Maximum opportunity metrics Fees Provide an appropriate The Chairman and the Executive Fees will be in line with Not applicable.
reward to attract Directors are responsible for market rates for Nonindividuals with setting the remuneration of Executive Directors at appropriate knowledge the Non-Executive Directors, FTSE250 companies.
and experience to other than the Chairman whose The aggregate maximum review and support the remuneration is determined by will be the limit stated in implementation of the theRemuneration Committee.
the Articles of Association Companys strategy.
Non-Executive Directors are paid proposed to be increased to a base fee and additional fees 750,000 at the 2017 AGM.
for chairmanship of Committees The 2017 18 fee levels are set and role of Senior Independent out in the Annual report on Director.
Fees are usually reviewed annuallywith changes effective from 1 April.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Other benets include travel, accommodation and membership subscriptions related to the Companys business.
Reasonable business related expenses will be reimbursed including any tax due thereon.
