Annual Report 2017 104 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report providing motivation to perform, remuneration plays an Remuneration Committee and advisers important retention role and needs to be appropriately Remuneration Committee members and attendance competitive without being excessive.
byothers To achieve the aims of the Companys remuneration Chairman 6 meetings policy, the Committee generally seeks to position xed Jonathan Short remuneration, including benets and pension, around Members mid-market and total executive remuneration around 1 Wendy Becker 0 0 mid-market for on-target performance taking into account 1 Nick Hampton 3 3 the size and complexity of the business as compared to Elizabeth Holden other peer companies in the sector, and, using a significant Jonathan Nicholls 2 2 proportion of variable reward, to increase total potential retired at the 2016 AGM remuneration for superior performance through the annual 1 Richard Mully 2 2 bonus plan and long-term incentives.
In attendance Martin Scicluna Our process Toby Courtauld The Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference Nick Sanderson areavailable from the Company website at: www.
Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton and Richard Mully joined the Committee inFebruary 2017, October 2016 and November 2016 respectively.
At the beginning of the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised three independent Non-Executive Directors, Our approach Elizabeth Holden, Jonathan Nicholls and Jonathan Short.
The key objectives for the Committee are to ensure the In light of the Corporate Governance Code requirement Executive Directors are appropriately incentivised and that the Remuneration Committee be made up of three remuneration arrangements are fully aligned with the independent Non-Executive Directors, Martin Scicluna, who Companys strategy to generate superior portfolio and was considered to be independent on becoming Chairman shareholder returns.
of the Board, attended all Remuneration Committee meetings following Jonathan Nicholls departure from the As outlined on pages 22 and 23, we currently measure our Committee given his resignation from the Board at the July absolute and relative performance using a small number 2016 AGM to become Chairman of Shaftesbury plc.
ofkey performance indicators: Independent Non-Executive Directors Nick Hampton, Relative Total Property Return TPR demonstrating our Richard Mully and Wendy Becker became members of market competitiveness: the Committee on joining the Board in October 2016, Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR reecting November 2016 and February 2017 respectively.
shareholder value: and Wendy Becker will take over as Remuneration Committee Absolute EPRA net asset per share growth NAV growth Chairman at the 2017 AGM from Jonathan Short who has showing our absolute performance.
served ten years on the Board.
On the basis that the Board consider Jonathan Short still to be independent, he will Over the medium term, we aim to outperform remain as a member of the Remuneration Committee our benchmarks.
Wendy Becker will not have served on The Groups annual bonus plan for the Executive Directors the Committee a full year before the 2017 AGM prior to and employees uses financial targets based on NAV growth becoming Chairman, however, will have been through the and the capital growth element of TPR, together with a review of the new Remuneration Policy, feedback from review of the attainment of personal objectives to achieve shareholders, the annual salary and bonus setting process operational excellence.
The 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the vesting of the 2014 LTIP awards.
the 2010 Plan uses all of our key performance indicators The Committee was advised during the year by FIT equally to measure the Groups performance being TPR Remuneration Consultants FIT Rem as independent one-third, TSR one-third and NAV growth one-third.
remuneration consultants who were appointed by the Under the 2010 Plan, the level of reward to Executive Committee in August 2014.
FIT Rem attends Committee Directors and senior management depends on the meetings and provides advice on remuneration for performance of the Group over a three year period.
the Executive Directors, analysis on all elements of the remuneration policy and regular market and best-practice Our overarching remuneration policy principles updates.
FIT Rem reports directly to the Committee.
The Executive Directors total pay is analysed by looking across each of the different elements of remuneration Toby Courtauld, the Chief Executive, provided input with including salary, pension, the annual bonus plan and regard to the achievement of personal objectives for long-term incentives to provide the Remuneration the other Executive Directors and attends discussions Committee with a view of total remuneration rather than on remuneration including on new appointments and just the competitiveness of the individual elements.
It is promotions as considered appropriate by the Committee.
important that the Groups remuneration policy reinforces No director or employee is involved in discussions on their the Companys goals, providing effective incentives for own pay.
exceptional Group and individual performance.
As well as Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 105 excellence during the year as outlined on pages 112 and 113, This year, we have sought the 20% of the bonus linked to personal performance was to retain the close linkage considered to be fully met.
of Executive reward to the Groups key performance New Remuneration Policy indicators and increased our share ownership guidelines As our existing Remuneration Policy will have reached the to ensure effective alignment end of its three year life at the end of this financial year, a with ourshareholders whilst new three year policy will be submitted for shareholder simplifying the structure of approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
During the year, the Committee has reviewed the policy Jonathan Short taking into account a number of factors including: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the current market environment, in particular, the uncertainty of the potential implications of Brexit: Dear fellow shareholder developments in market practice: On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased pay and performance outcomes over the last three years: to present the Directors remuneration report for the year and ended 31 March 2017. pay and employment conditions across the Company Remuneration in respect of the year ended andmore generally across the sector.
31March 2017 Following the comprehensive review, the Committee was This year has been another year of strong operational satisfied that the current policy structure has served us well, performance through good leasing momentum, continuing with only a few modest amendments necessary to make to recycle capital profitably through selling properties the overall arrangements simpler to operate, more closely where we have created significant value and maintaining a aligned to strategy and address recent developments in disciplined approach to capital allocation, including returning best practice.
The proposed changes are set out below: capital to shareholders.
Our activities mean our balance a substantial increase in the share ownership sheet provides unprecedented financial strength with a guidelines from 100% of salary to 300% of salary for the record low loan to value and significant liquidity.
However, Executive Directors: the EU referendum result has had a negative effect on business confidence in London which will likely result in lower simplication of long-term incentives with the economic growth and, as a consequence of the unclear consolidation of LTIP and SMP into a single incentive plan.
economic environment, Londons commercial property No increase in overall quantum potential although, to markets have weakened during this period of uncertainty.
permit the continued level of awards under the LTIP alone, shareholder approval will be sought for an increase of As a result of strong NAV growth up to the date of the this element: referendum, we achieved a total uplift for the three years the introduction of a post-vesting holding period for to 31 March 2017 of 41% and, therefore, we expect 100% of future awards of an additional two year holding period the NAV hurdle to be met for the Groups three year 2014 which will continue post-cessation : LTIP award, due to vest in June 2017.
However, following a fide-rating of the share prices of GPE and other Londonreduction of the pension maximum from 25% to 20%: and focused property companies relative to the broader FTSE removal of the ability to make annual bonus awards in 350 Real Estate sector over the last year, in part due to excess of 150% of base salary in exceptional circumstances.
adverse market sentiment following the EU referendum, As part of the review of our Remuneration Policy and based on the latest information available as at 31 March performance measures outlined below, we consulted with 2017, we do not expect the TSR hurdle to be met.
We also institutional shareholders holding in excess of 40% of the underperformed the TPR benchmark for the three year Companys share capital along with investment advisory period to 31 March 2017, resulting in a nil vesting.
bodies in both the UK and US.
We were pleased to receive For the 2016 17 Annual Bonus Plan, despite managements overall broad support for the proposed changes.
efforts, as a result of the NAV growth target being set before the referendum and the resultant weakening London 2017 18 implementation of our policy market, the NAV target was not achieved.
In addition, the In reviewing the Remuneration Policy, the Committee also Groups portfolio capital growth performance was below reviewed the performance measures used in the annual that of the relevant IPD capital growth index due to our bonus and LTIP.
The Committee recognised the importance lower than benchmark exposure to long-dated investment of retaining the principles of operating a basket of absolute properties, whose valuations proved more resilient in the and relative measures under both the Annual Bonus Plan year and which we have sort to monetise through sales, and LTIP arrangements to ensure the Company must resulting in zero payout under the Annual Bonus Plan.
perform well in both absolute and relative terms before See our KPIs on pages 22 and 23 maximum awards can be earned.
However, the Committee recognised that under both the Annual Bonus Plan and Recognising their decisive actions in light of the EU LTIP, the current market uncertainties make it difficult to set referendum to crystallise profits, further degear the balance growth targets annually and, under the LTIP, that the relative sheet to provide additional optionality and significant TPR measure should reect the weighting of the size of the progress against their individual objectives for operational Companys portfolio to others in the Index.
