Directors Remuneration Report Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Introduction Who is on the Remuneration Committee?
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Committee, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for FY17.
of meetings Remuneration Policy Paul Moody Chairman 4 4 Much of the Committees activity during FY17 has focused on Dennis Millard 4 4 reviewing our policy.
We have undertaken a thorough and detailed Amy Stirling 4 4 review of our existing policy to assess whether it remains appropriate Tessa Green 4 4 and relevant in the context of our strategic plan and business goals set against a changing macro-economic environment.
The Committee concluded that the policy remains appropriate What we did in 2017 in respect of salary, annual bonus and benefits provided to Re-tendered the contract for the provision of Executive Directors, and there are no changes proposed in executive remuneration consulting services respect of these elements.
The key area of focus has been on and appointed new advisors: redesigning our LTIP, which the Committee considers was not delivering the best value for shareholders in its current form.
Reviewed the Remuneration Policy for approval at We have also amended the pension provision, in line with the 2017 Annual General Meeting of the Company: proposed changes to be made to the pension entitlement Consulted extensively with shareholders throughout acrossthe Group.
the policy review: The Committee firmly believes that the remuneration Considered and recommended the remuneration arrangements for the senior team should be based on the same package for the new Chief Financial Officer: principles as those for the wider colleague population, which are simplicity, alignment and long-term share ownership.
In designing Reviewed the fees paid to the Non Executive Directors the new executive remuneration policy, we have taken a bottom and recommended to the Board the fees to be paid up approach to design long-term incentives for the broader forany new appointments: organisation that are then applied to our executives.
Discussed and reviewed attainment against the Proposed changes performance conditions for the Groups Long Term The Committee considered a range of approaches for the Incentive Plans due to vest during the period: Groups LTIPs and sought an early view from investors for a significant simplification of our share plans.
As a result, the Approved awards to colleagues in the Group under Committee is proposing to replace our Co-Investment Plan, the Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP : Performance Share Plan PSP and Company Share Option Plan Agreed the annual bonus targets for the Executive CSOP with a new Restricted Stock Plan RSP.
Management Team for FY17 and measured The RSP will be the sole long term incentive arrangement used: performance against them: and The maximum award level under the new plan will be reduced Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee.
by 50% from the current maximum PSP and CSOP awards: A total shareholder return TSR underpin applies and will be measured at the end of year 3: Awards will vest in tranches over years three to five, extended from the current three year timescale if the underpin What we will do in 2018 has been satisfied: Approve share awards under the new LTIP to all eligible Likewise all of the awards will lapse if the underpin is not satisfied colleagues: at the end of year 3: and Awards remain subject to leaver provisions, and malus Agree the annual bonus targets for the Executive Management and clawback will apply.
Team for FY18 and measure performance against them: Shareholder engagement Continue to engage with shareholders on the We have consulted extensively with and have received support new remuneration policy: from all of our major shareholders throughout the policy review.
Review the remuneration structure of the wider The majority of shareholders who participated in this process: colleague population: and Recognised the level of challenge in designing long term incentive Assess the requirements of the Gender Pay Regulations.
plans that are easily understood and valued by colleagues: Strongly supported the simplified remuneration structure: Welcomed the inclusion of the TSR underpin and the extended vesting period: Pets at Home Group Plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Recognised the level of challenge in providing competitive In FY18, we will also accelerate growth in our vet business, remuneration packages to attract and retain top class talent: invest in marketing and deliver operational cost efficiencies.
Appreciated that there would be a reduction in overall quantum Whilst there will be some short term margin impacts from these in return for more certain awards: initiatives, we are confident this is the right path for success Supported the bottom up approach and the colleague andwill give us a strong platform from which to grow.
alignment on share plans that runs through the organisation.
Annual bonus We consulted in particular with shareholders on the performance The Committee reviewed the performance of both the business underpin below which it would not be appropriate for awards to pay and each Executive Director against targets set at the beginning out.
Investors preference was that the underpin relates to TSR of the year for the annual bonus scheme.
For FY17 the annual rather than a dividend or financial metric.
The Committee therefore bonus continued to be based on EBITDA 75% and free cash determined to apply an absolute TSR underpin, as follows.
flow 25% measured over the 52 week period.
Detailed information on the targets can be found on page 106 of the Awards under the RSP will vest in full subject to absolute TSR Annual Report on Remuneration.
being positive over the first three years of the vesting period: If absolute TSR performance is negative at the end of the three EBITDA at 130.5m was above the minimum threshold levels year period the awards will lapse in full: and at which payments against this financial target were triggered For awards made in 2017 absolute TSR performance will be for the Executive Directors.
calculated by taking the average absolute TSR for the final As a result, the EBITDA portion of the annual bonus paid out three or six month period of the plan ending on 26 March 2020 at 27.2% of maximum equal to 20.4% of salary.
and comparing it with the average absolute TSR for the three or six month period ending on 30 March 2017.
This ensures that The stretching free cash flow targets were not met and so no the starting point for the underpin calculation occurs prior to portion of this bonus will be paid.
Free cash flow after interest, the recent reduction in share price.
tax and before acquisitions was 64.6m FY16: 77.8m, with a decline in the cash conversion rate to 49% FY16: 62% as a We believe the RSP is right for our business.
It provides a result of increased capital expenditure and cash working capital simplerapproach, which offers the ability to build up meaningful requirements compared with the prior year.
shareholding over the long term, strengthening alignment, increasing retention and delivering a greater incentive for our Further information can be found on page 106 of our Annual colleagues, including our Executive Directors, given the long Report on Remuneration.
maturity curve of our investment in space and services.
Share incentive plans Remuneration in respect of FY17 Executive Directors participated in the PSP and the CSOP Results for FY17 for the first time in FY17.
As set out in our Policy in 2014, FY17 saw the delivery of a solid performance with profits in line the main Long-Term Incentive Plan for Executive Directors was with expectations.
the PSP, although in line with the approach for all our colleague participants, we delivered an element of this under the CSOP Total income from Joint Venture vet practices up 24.6% to to take advantage of HMRC-approved tax savings.
The awards 47.1m:Positive response to the launch of pricing initiatives in were made subject to the following targets, to be measured Advanced Nutrition private labels and everyday pet essentials.
over three financial years FY17 to FY19 : Pricing initiatives now extending to branded foods: Progress in Q4 with Merchandise returning to growth.
10% of the total award will vest for earnings per share EPS Q4LFLs: Group 1.2%, Merchandise 0.5% & Services 7.1% growth of 5% per annum, rising to 75% for EPS growth of 12.5% whenadjusted for the impact of Easter: per annum: and New openings in line with targets: 15 superstores, 50 vet 6.25% of the total award will vest for median TSR performance practices and 50 grooming salons.
A further two veterinary against the FTSE 350 UK General Retail Index, rising to 25% specialist referral centres acquired: for upper quartile TSR performance against the Index.
Strong results from omnichannel investment with online revenue growth of 53%: launched colleague assisted Order Matching Awards held by the Executive Directors under the 2014 in-store and a subscription platform with potential for broader Co-Investment plan awards vested as to performance in May product application: and 2017.
The vested awards become exercisable in tranches, Total dividend payable of 7.5 pence per share.
subject to continued employment, between May 2017 and March 2019.
Only part of the EPS portion of the awards will We are not, however, immune to the wider macroeconomic vest.
Further details are set out on page 106 of the Annual environment and changes in consumer behaviour.
bythe positive customer reaction to our value initiatives, wearecontinuing to reposition our prices across additional Merchandise lines and branded foods.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Directors Remuneration Report Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration review The Committee gave consideration to the remuneration Remuneration principles arrangements for Ian Kellett following his appointment to the role of Group CEO.
There were no changes to his variable pay In summary, the objectives of our new framework or benefit entitlement, however, the Committee Directors remuneration policy are: took the opportunity to reflect the promotion and significantly increased scope of his responsibilities at this time by repositioning To align with our programme of Group Strategy wide simplification.
his salary to 475,000 with effect from 4April2016.
To have incentives that are appropriate for In October, the Committee recommended to the Board the our business for the next three years as we approval of an appropriate CFO remuneration package to the focus on delivering long-term, sustainable Board to achieve the appointment of his successor and the returns, to investors.
Board was delighted to secure Mike Iddon as the Group CFO.
Details of his package, which is within the approved policy To adopt a bottom-up approach Culture limits, can be found on page 104. toremuneration a policy that works forourcolleagues and can be applied FY18 salary review toourexecutives.
The Committee has reviewed the salary levels of the Executive To support our ongoing desire to embed Directors and has concluded that an increase of 2% will be share ownership across the organisation.
made to the Executive Directors in line with those made to other To assist with succession planning.
All salary increases take effect from 31 March2017.
Our colleagues To simplify and therefore enhance Retention We have always recognised the importance of widespread share perceived value of awards and thereby ownership and it remains an integral part of our culture.
This reflects reduce flight risk.
the principle that our colleagues are central to the achievement of our strategy and we believe that share ownership enhances loyalty To deliver better value to shareholders Shareholders and engagement.
In keeping with this ethos, the Committee for their reward spend by: approved a further grant of a discretionary share award under Improving perceived value: theCSOP to every eligible colleague in the Group in June 2016.
Creating stronger alignment with Following on from the successful launch of the Companys shareholders: and Sharesave plan in 2014, the Committee doubled the monthly Increasing focus on long term sum that colleagues are permitted to save from 250 to sustainable value creation 500 for the 2015 plan and this continued at this level for the 2016 plan.
The Committee intends to grant awards to every eligible colleague in the Group under the new RSP following its approval at the AGM.
Resolutions At our AGM on 11 July 2017 we will be asking shareholders to pass resolutions to approve: Our new Directors Remuneration Policy.
Our Directors Remuneration Report which sets out how we have applied our existing policy during FY17.
Our new LTIP in line with the new Directors Remuneration Policy.
I would like to thank the shareholders who took part in the consultations on our new Directors Remuneration Policy and we hope that all of our shareholders will support these resolutions.
Yours faithfully Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2017 Pets at Home Group Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance How we ensure pay for Summary of the performance linkage proposed changes are: Not changing No changes to policy in respect of: Salary Annual bonus Annual bonus Benefits Pension contributions for current incumbents in FY18 Pay-out linked to achievement Recruitment or leaver provisions ofrobust and challenging annual performance targets.
Proposed changes Replace performance shares with a time-vested restricted stock plan Full disclosure of bonus Reduce overall maximum package opportunity from 250% salary to 175% salary commitment to disclosing all target ranges on a retrospective basis at the Current Proposal end of the financial year in question.
Expected Awards Policy Expected Policy value made max value max Bonus 50% 100% 100% 50% 100% Underpin LTI RSP The absolute TSR underpin 75% 125% 150% 75% 75% as % of base salary guaranteesbaseline performances below which awards will not vest.
Overall incentive opportunity Serves as a security mechanism 125% 225% 250% 125% 175% to prevent pay-outs for poor % of base salary performance.
Timing of vesting Increase vesting horizon to five years Illustrative vesting schedule 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Share price Restricted stock 50% 25% 25% 75% Award Share price inherently links pay Vest Vest Vest to performance.
Baseline underpin An absolute TSR baseline performance underpin would apply during the first three Build up of shareholding and financial years below which no vesting of restricted stock awards would occur.
long term vesting horizon incentives Leavers senior colleagues to increase focus The default position remains that leavers would lose their unvested shares awards, on long term, sustainable subject to certain good leaver circumstances.
Change of control The default position remains that the Committee will determine whether and to what extent unvested awards shall vest, taking into account all relevant factors including Company performance, the period of time elapsed since the date of the grant and theinterests of our shareholders.
Pension Change pension policy to permit contributions up to 15% of base salary to take into account the roll out of pension increases across the organisation within the next three years.
Nevertheless, the pension contributions for the CEO and CFO remainunchanged at 9% pa. Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued Rationale for change 1.
Directors Remuneration Policy We believe that this new, simpler approach is right for a Policy Report PetsatHome, for the following reasons: The following section pages 94 to 104 sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy for all of the Executive Directors Our culture is built on a cohesive team approach and and the Non-Executive Directors as well as any individuals who widespread shareholding amongst colleagues.
We believe may become Directors whilst this Policy is in effect for approval in having a consistent approach to remuneration rather than by shareholders at the Companys AGM in July 2017.
A copy designing alternative plans for our Executive Directors.
As ofour current policy that was approved by shareholders at the an example of the consistency in our approach, the pension Companys AGM in September 2014 can be found on the provision for our executives is in line with that of the wider Groups website https: investors.
Subject to shareholder approval, the new Policy is intended The current performance share plans, which are based on the to remain in effect for three years from the 2017 AGM.
There achievement of EPS and relative TSR targets, are perceived are four substantive differences between the previous policy by colleagues as overly complex and with limited line of sight approved by shareholders in September 2014 and the between performance and reward.
proposed Policy: i our current long term incentive plans will A simpler approach, which offers the ability to build up bereplaced with a time-vested restricted stock plan RSP with meaningful shareholding over the long term would provide abaseline underpin, ii the maximum package opportunity for stronger alignment, with our focus on delivering long term variable pay will be reduced from 250% of salary to 175% of sustainable returns to investors and provide a greater retention salary per annum and iii there will be an increase in the and incentive effect for our senior employees given the long vesting horizon for our new long term incentive plan, so maturity curve of our investment in space and services.
that awards vest over three to five years and iv the pension policy maximum has been increased to permit contributions It also aligns with a much wider programme of simplification ofup to 15% of base salary in line with the planned roll out across the Group as a whole, from how we operate our supply ofpension increases across the organisation within the next chain and stores, right through to our Support Offices and has three years.
the benefit of being based on intrinsic as opposed to extraneous performance factors.
No new awards will be made under the Co-Investment Plan, PSP or CSOP.
For the outstanding PSP and CSOP awards that As an established FTSE 250 company, we focus on delivering still have performance years to run in 2017, 2018 and 2019, long term, sustainable returns to investors.
We do not feel that performance will be assessed against unchanged targets.
a remuneration package that features elevated rewards linked to very high stretch targets aligns with our long term approach.
The Policy explains the purpose and principles underlying the structure of remuneration packages and how the Policy links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long term value creation.
Overall remuneration is structured and set at levels to enable us to recruit and retain high calibre colleagues necessary for business success whilst ensuring that our reward structure and performance measures should be aligned to the strategy and be simple to communicate to participants and shareholders.
A significant portion of the package remains performance related via the annual bonus plan.
Remuneration has been set taking into account practice within the FTSE 250 and practice at other retail companies.
Pets at Home Group Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Pay element Fixed pay Base salary Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Changes link to strategy No change Base salaries are paid in cash Whilst there is no maximum salary level, and are pensionable.
any increases will normally be broadly in line The Company provides with the wider colleague population.
competitive salaries Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically suitable to attract and at the March Remuneration Committee meeting.
Higher increases may be made under certain retain individuals of the Any changes are usually with effect from the start circumstances, at the Committees discretion.
right calibre to develop of the next financial year.
The Committee takes into For example, this may include: and execute the consideration a number of factors when setting Increase in the scope and or responsibility business strategy.
salaries, including but not limited to : of the individuals role: and Size and scope of the individuals Development of the individual within the role.
responsibilities: Annual base salaries for the Executive Directors The individuals skills, experience areset out on page 104 of this report.
and performance: Typical salary levels for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators including practice for retail companies and the broader FTSE 250: and Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Benefits Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Changes link to strategy The Company provides a range of benefits, The cost to the Company of providing other benefits No change which may include: may vary depending on, for example, market The Company provides practice and the cost of insuring certain benefits.
colleagues with market a company car or cash equivalent competitive benefits The Committee keeps the level of benefit life assurance suitable to attract and provision under regular review.
permanent health insurance retain individuals of the Details of the current benefit provision for the right calibre to develop private medical insurance.
Executive Directors is set out on page 111 of and execute the thisreport.
These benefits are not pensionable.
Other benefits may be offered from time to time, if considered appropriate by the Committee and consistent with the Companys overriding purpose for offering such benefits.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, such as relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for other senior executives.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any tax-approved all colleague share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible colleagues such as the SAYE scheme set out below on page 97.
Pensions Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Changes link to strategy Pension contributions are made to either the Group The contribution level for an individual Executive The pension policy Pension Plan, to personal pension schemes or cash Director is capped at 15% of base salary per annum maximum has been To provide colleagues allowances in lieu of contributions are paid.
Details of current changed from 9% of with an allowance for pension provision for the Executive Directors are base salary to permit retirement planning.
set out on page 111 of this report.
contributions of up to 15% of base salary for employer contributions to take into account the roll out of pension increases across the organisation within the next three years.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued Pay element variable pay Annual bonus Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance measures Changes to strategy opportunity No change Delivery will normally be in cash Each year, the Committee and is not pensionable.
determines the measures and To incentivise The maximum bonus weightings within the following the delivery of Performance measures are set annually opportunity is 100% parameters: our business plan of base salary.
and pay-out levels are determined by the on an annual Committee after the year-end, based on At least 75% of the annual bonus basis.
performance against those targets during will be based on financial the relevant financial year.
performance measures: and To reward performance Awards are subject to malus and clawback No more than 25% of the annual against key provisions where there has been a material bonus will be based on performance misstatement of audited results: serious performance against non-financial indicators which financial irregularity: any circumstances measures, including for example, are critical to justifying summary dismissal of a participant individual and strategic objectives.
the delivery of from his office or employment with any Group our business The Committee ensures that targets Company including, but not limited to, strategy.
are appropriately stretching in the dishonesty, fraud, misrepresentation or breach context of the business plan and of trust: that there is an appropriate balance any material breach of a participants terms between incentivising Executive and conditions of employment: and or any Directors to meet financial targets material violation of Company policy, rules or for the year and to deliver specific regulations.
This balance allows the Committee to effectively reward performance against the key elements of our strategy.
The Company may, in the context of the underlying business strategy, amend the performance measures or targets.
The performance metrics for the annual bonus for the Executive Directors are set out on page 111 ofthis report.
1 Long Term Incentive Plan Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance measures Changes to strategy Awards will be made under the RSP annually.
opportunity There are no performance targets The Co-Investment attached to the awards.
Plan, PSP and CSOP To promote Share awards are normally made in the form The maximum value have been replaced continued of restricted shares of nil cost options but may be awarded in other A baseline performance underpin with a simplified plan that may be awarded alignment forms if appropriate such as conditional share applies, which requires absolute TSR for awards to be in respect of any between awards.
The plan rules specify that awards performance to be positive over the made in FY18 financial year is 75% Executive may also be satisfied in cash although this is first three years of the vesting period.
of salary Directors and unlikely to apply to Executive Directors.
If the underpin is not achieved, the shareholders, awards lapse in full.
A 50% discount has No award will vest under the RSP unless the TSR increasing focus been applied to the underpin referred to below has been achieved.
The plan rules stipulate that the on long term previous policy Committee may amend the Subject to the achievement of the TSR sustainable maximum of 150% performance measures or underpin underpin at year three and continued valuecreation of base salary per in exceptional circumstances where employment: annum allowing the To support it considers that they are no longer 50% of the award will vest after three years.
Committee to make our principle of appropriate.
If this discretion was an award of up to embedding share 25% of the award will vest in each of years used, we would consult with 75% of base salary ownership across four and five.
shareholders and the rationale per annum.
the organisation would be clearly explained in the Additional shares or cash may be awarded in remuneration report.
The level of awards To assist with lieu of dividends on any shares which vest, which made to Executive succession would have been paid during the vesting period.
Directors are set out planning Malus and clawback applies under the on page 111 of this circumstances set out on page 101 of report.
Change of control provisions apply as set out on page 101 of this report.
Leaver provisions apply as set out on page 101 of this report.
Pets at Home Group Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Pay element variable pay 1 SAYE Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance measures Changes to strategy opportunity There are no performance measures No change SAYE is a HMRC-approved scheme where eligible colleagues are granted savings-related attached to awards under the SAYE.
The market value An all-colleague share options to subscribe for ordinary shares plan, which of the shares under in the Company.
option at the date encourages long of maturity of the term shareholding Options are granted to be exercisable in Sharesave savings and to align the conjunction with either a three-year or five-year contract, less interests of UK savings contract with a monthly savings limit the grant price of colleagues with set according to HMRC limits currently 500 the option at the shareholders per month.
Executive Options are normally granted at a discount Directors are to market price at the time of invitation, eligible to as per HMRC regulations currently 20%.
participate Chairman and Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance measures Changes to strategy opportunity N A.
No change Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee in respect of their Board duties.
To attract and Current fee levels retain high calibre Further fees are paid to Non-Executive can be found on individuals by Directors in respect of Deputy Chairman page 107. offering market of the Board and or chairmanship of Board Fees are set at a competitive fee committees.
The Non-Executive Chairman receives considered appropriate to an all-inclusive fee for the role.
attract and retain The remuneration of the Non-Executive the calibre of Chairman is set by the Remuneration individual required Committee, whilst the Board as a whole is by the Company.
responsible for determining Non-Executive Director fees.
These fees are the sole element The Companys of Non-Executive remuneration and they are Articles of not eligible for incentive awards, pensions Association provide or other benefits.
that the total aggregate Fees are typically reviewed annually.
remuneration paid Expenses incurred in the performance of to the NonNon-Executive duties for the Company may be Executive Chairman reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, and the NEDs will as appropriate, including any tax due on be within the limits the benefits.
1 T he Committee may in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital demerger, delisting, or other event which may affect the value of awards, adjust or amend the terms of awards inaccordance with the rules of the relevant share plan.
In the case of the SAYE, any changes may be subject to HMRC approval if required.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued Legacy matters Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The Committee will honour remuneration related commitments The Policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with to former, current and future Executive and Non-Executive the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin Directors including the exercise of any discretions available remuneration for the wider Company.
The Company believes to the Committee in relation to such commitments where the in having a consistent approach to remuneration rather than terms were agreed prior to them becoming a Director provided designing alternative plans for our Executive Directors.
that, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming an Executive Director All our reward arrangements are built around the common or Non-Executive Director of the Company and or where the objectives and principles outlined below: terms were agreed and commitments made in accordance with the policy approved by the Companys shareholders in Aligned incentives A meaningful proportion of remuneration September 2014, and which become due and payable or is based on performance.
Individuals are incentivised towards otherwise vest during the period covered by this Policy.
consistent financial and non-financial business goals and objectives, in addition to appropriate individual goals.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying Colleagues as shareholders Our culture is built on a cohesive awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award team approach and widespread shareholding amongst over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time colleagues which we believe enhances our long term the award is granted.
This includes allowing the vesting of sustainable success by promoting stewardship and alignment outstanding awards under the Co-Investment Plan, CSOP amongst a wide colleague participation group and PSP, the terms of which are detailed in the previous policy that was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM Simplification our Policy aligns with a much wider programme inSeptember 2014, a copy of which can be found on the of simplification across the Group as a whole, from how we Groups website https: investors.
operate our supply chain and stores, right through to our Support Offices.
Pets at Home Group Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance b Recruitment policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component and which remain unchanged from the previous Policy.
Element Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a member business, in addition to considering the matters detailed of the Board from an external party is to take account of the above for external candidates, the normal policy of the Executive Directors remuneration package in their prior role, Company is that any legacy arrangements would be the market positioning of the remuneration package, and honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
tonot pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual.
Fixed We recognise that salary levels drive other elements The Company may meet certain mobility costs, including elements ofthepackage and would therefore seek to pay a salary relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living Base salary, which is competitive, but no more than necessary to and transportation expenses in line with the prevailing pension and secure the individual.
mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
other benefits The Executive Director would be eligible to participate in our benefit and pension plans, including coverage under all Executive Director and colleague pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions ofsuch plans, as may be amended by the Company from timeto time.
Short term The individual will be eligible to participate in the annual The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that incentives bonus plan, in accordance with the rules and terms of the set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 100% of base salary.
plan in operation at the time.
Long term The individual will be eligible to participate in the RSP, in incentives accordance with the rules and terms of the plan in operation at the time.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 75% of base salary.
Buy-out awards The Committee will consider what buy-out awards if any Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of existing long term incentive plans to the extent possible, anew Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes although awards may also be granted outside of these an assessment of the awards which would be forfeited plans if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards made The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out awards such that overall they are no more generous according to their original terms.
in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards If promotion is part way through the year, an additional due to be forfeited.
top-up award may be made to bring the Executive In determining the quantum and structure of these Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly in the circumstances.
equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of the awards forfeited.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued c Service contracts and loss of office arrangements The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
On principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of a loss of office is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for the loss of office, Company and individual performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
The key employment terms and conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below and remain unchanged from the previous policy: Area Policy and operation Notice period The service contract for Ian Kellett provides for a notice New Executive Directors will be appointed on service contracts period of 12 months from the Company and six months that have a notice period of not more than 12months for both from the individual the Company and the individual.
The service contract for Mike Iddon provides for a The Committee considers this policy provides an appropriate notice period from both the Company and the individual balance between the need to retain the services of key of six months.
individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
Contractual Executive Directors service contracts allow for termination with Payment in lieu of notice will be limited to base salary payments contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of andcontractual benefits for the relevant notice period.
payment in lieu of notice PILON, at the Companys discretion.
There is no contractual entitlement to a payment under Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances theannual bonus in respect of the notice period.
dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required Service contracts allow for mitigation if the individual finds for their full notice period.
Neither notice nor PILON will be given in the event ofgross misconduct.
Short-term The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive Where an Executive Director leaves office during a performance incentives for any portion of the notice period not served.
year, any bonus would be at the Committees absolute discretion and would take into account performance and Where an Executive Director leaves office after the end of the time served during the period a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual bonus for that No bonus will be paid in the event of gross misconduct.
performance year, subject to the normal assessment of performance achieved over the period.
Pets at Home Group Plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Area Policy and operation Long term The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards CSOP, PSP, RSP and SAYE incentives isgoverned by the rules of the relevant incentive plan.
Under the CSOP, PSP and RSP, the default position is for both vested to the extent not yet exercised and unvested awards CIP to lapse upon a loss of office event.
Treatment under the CIP is dependent on the period elapsed since the IPO.
Where an individual is determined to be a good leaver whichincludes for reasons of death, illness, injury, disability, a Within the first 24 months following admission retirement, sale or transfer out of the Group or any other reason Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily at the discretion of the Committee the Committee may allow resigns less than 18 months following the date of admission, vested awards to the extent not yet exercised to be retained they will forfeit their Invested Shares and their Matching and unvested awards to subsist until the relevant vesting date, Awards.
This period ended on 17 March 2016. subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions financial underpin and pro-rated for time served.
b Between 24 months and 36 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily Alternatively, the Committee may, at its discretion, allow resigns between 18 months and 30 months following the date unvested awards to vest at an earlier date, having regard to of admission and completes at least two years service by the achievement of performance conditions financial underpin working his notice period or being put on garden leave, or would to that date and the period of time that has passed since the have done so but is given PILON, they will retain their Invested date of grant.
The Committee may choose to apply no reduction Shares and may retain a portion of their Matching Award inthe amount vesting if it is considered appropriate given the subject to achievement of performance targets measured particular circumstances.
overthe first two years of the performance period.
This period Under the SAYE, the default position is for unvested awards ended on 17 March 2017. tolapse upon a loss of office event.
c On or after 36 months following admission Where an individual is determined to be a good leaver Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily in accordance with HMRC regulations which include for resigns on or after 30 months following the date of admission reasons of death unvested awards may vest pro-rata by and completes at least three years service by working his reference to the period of time that has elapsed since the notice period or being put on garden leave, or would have done dateof the grant and up to six months following the leaver so but is given PILON, they will retain their Invested Shares event 12 months in the case of death.
and, if a good leaver defined as under the PSP also their vested Matching Award, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Matching Awards vest after three, four and five years, subject to achievement of performance conditions at year three.
Any participant who is dismissed for reasons of fraud or negligence will forfeit their Invested Shares and Matching Awards in full.
Change in The Committees policy is that service contracts should not Under the SAYE, awards shall vest pro-rata by reference to control provide for additional compensation on severance as a result theperiod of time that has elapsed since the date of grant of a change in control.
andup to six months following the change of control.
Under the CSOP, the PSP, the Co-Investment Plan and the RSP, the Committee will determine whether and to what extent awards shall vest, taking into account all relevant factors including Company performance, the period of time elapsed since the date of grant and the interests of our shareholders.
Malus and Annual bonus payments and long term incentive awards but any material breach of a participants terms and conditions clawback notincluding SAYE awards are subject to malus and clawback ofemployment: and or any material violation of Company fora period beginning on the date of award and ending two years policy, rules of regulation.
following vesting in the event of: a material misstatement of audited results: Malus and clawback will continue to apply to any bonus payments or awards retained by Leavers and or on a Change serious financial irregularity: of Control.
any circumstances justifying summary dismissal of a participant from his office or employment with any Group Company including, but not limited to, dishonesty, fraud, misrepresentation or breach of trust: Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued External appointments Availability of documentation Executive Directors are permitted to hold an external appointment Service contracts and letters of appointment for all Directors with the prior consent of the Board.
Any fees may be retained are available for inspection by any person at our registered office bythe individual.
They will also be available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM to be held Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in Manchester on 11 July 2017.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, have letters of appointment which set out their duties d Illustration of the remuneration policy andresponsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
Our remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below of stretching short term and long term performance targets, and remain unchanged from the previous policy: aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
TheCommittee considers the level of remuneration that may be Provision Policy received under different performance outcomes to ensure that Period Initially appointed for a period of three years, this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered subject to annual review and notice.
and the value added for shareholders.
In line with the UK Code, all Directors will seek annual re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM.
The charts on page 103 provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three Appointment Three months notice by either the Company assumed performance scenarios under the proposed RSP terms or the Non-Executive Director.
together withacomparison with the previous PSP.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board are not entitled to compensation These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual on leaving the Board.
outcomes may differ from those shown.
Expiry of See page 76 for details of the expiry of the current term current term of Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment.
Pets at Home Group Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Scenario Assumptions under the new RSP Scenario Assumptions under the previous PSP Fixed pay Fixed pay All Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, All Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, performance benefits and pension performance benefits and pension scenarios Base salary salary effective as at scenarios Base salary salary effective as at 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 Benefits amount estimated to be received Benefits amount estimated to be received by each Executive Director in FY18 by each Executive Director in FY18 Pension salary supplement effective Pension salary supplement effective as at 31 March 2017. as at 31 March 2017.
Variable pay Variable pay Minimum No pay-out under the annual bonus Minimum No pay-out under the annual bonus performance performance No vesting under the RSP No vesting under the PSP On-target 50% of the maximum pay-out under On-target 50% of the maximum pay-out under the performance the annual bonus i. e. 50% of salary performance annual bonus i. e. 50% of salary 100% vesting under the RSP i. e. 75% of salary 75% vesting under the PSP i. e. 60% of salary Maximum 100% of the maximum pay-out under the Maximum 100% of the maximum pay-out under the performance annual bonus i. e. 100% of salary performance annual bonus i. e. 100% of salary 100% vesting under the RSP i. e. 75% of salary 100% vesting under the PSP i. e. 125% of salary Notes Notes 1 Under the RSP, the normal maximum limit of 75% of salary has been shown.
1 Under the PSP, the normal maximum limit of 125% of salary has been shown.
2 All-colleague share plans i. e. the SAYE have been excluded.
3 A ny legacy awards made in accordance with the policy for 2014 which Executive Directors 3 A ny awards made in accordance with the Policy for 2014 under the Co-Investment Plan which hold have been excluded although a comparison has been made against the PSP.
Executive Directors hold have been excluded.
Group Chief Executive officer Illustrative example under the new RSP Group Chief Executive officer Illustrative example under the previous PSP 1,800,000 1,600,000 1,630,000 1,387,000 1,600,000 1,400,000 1,400,000 1,145,000 26% 1,200,000 1,236,000 37% 1,200,000 1,000,000 32% 1,000,000 36% 800,000 35% 800,000 21% 30% 600,000 540,000 20% 600,000 540,000 400,000 400,000 47% 39% 100% 100% 44% 33% 200,000 200,000 0 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum expectation expectation Group Chief Financial officer Illustrative example under the new RSP Group Chief Financial officer Illustrative example under the previous PSP 1,400,000 1,200,000 996,000 1,200,000 1,170,000 1,000,000 823,000 1,000,000 26% 888,000 37% 800,000 800,000 32% 36% 600,000 35% 600,000 21% 30% 390,000 20% 400,000 390,000 400,000 200,000 200,000 100% 47% 39% 100% 44% 33% 0 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum expectation expectation Fixed pay Annual bonus RSP Fixed pay Annual bonus PSP Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Our new Directors Remuneration Policy continued f Consideration of shareholder views Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Committee has consulted extensively with the Base salary 484,500 346,800 Companys largest shareholders on the proposed Directors Benefits 11,500 11,500 Remuneration Policy.
Pension 43,605 31,212 We were pleased that all of our majority shareholders Total fixed pay 539,605 389,512 were very supportive of our remuneration principles and the proposed design.
e Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company We were grateful for the constructive feedback provided As per the Committees terms of reference, we also review the throughout the process which was taken on board in our final pay and conditions of colleagues at levels below the Executive proposals.
The Committee remains committed to ongoing Directors.
This includes approving the design of, and determining dialogue with the Companys shareholder base.
targets for any performance related pay schemes such as the bonus scheme operated by the Company and approving the total We will continue to monitor shareholder views when evaluating annual payments made under such schemes.
The Committee and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and we commit to isalso consulted concerning any major changes in colleague consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes benefit and pay structures throughout the Group.
The remuneration package for all colleagues including the g Minor amendments Executive Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and a The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set consistent approach is applied at all levels.
As part of the annual out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative salary and benefits review, the Company takes into account purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without industry standards, future legislative framework including obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
thenational minimum wage, the national living wage, the Apprenticeship levy and the Gender Pay Gap reporting requirements and the financial and economic environment oftheGroup both internally and externally.
The annual salary andbenefits review is presented to the Committee with recommendations on remuneration throughout the colleague base, including a proposed salary increase to be applied to all colleagues wages, including the Executive Directors.
As such, the Committee has regard to this Group-wide annual review process when setting its remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Whilst our colleagues are not directly consulted as part of the process of determining pay, the output from colleague surveys, including our internal Were All Ears and Paws4Thought surveys, is considered when carrying out the annual salary and benefits review.
A significant number of our colleagues are also shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
Pets at Home Group Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration a Directors remuneration report on implementation for the year ended 30 March 2017 This section of the report sets out how the Remuneration Policy Policy, approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 September 2014 has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
A copy of this current Policy can be found on the Groups website https: investors.
com The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 109 represents the audited section of this report.
b Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 30 March 2017 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 30 March 2017.
All payments are in line with the Policy.
Based on performance in the period March 2014 to March 2017 the performance conditions for these shares were measured and the Committee determined that 16.8% of the awards would vest.
The vested award become exercisable in equal tranches, subject to continued employment, between May 2017 and March 2019.
Only the value for a third of the tranche has been shown in the figure for FY17 since only a third can be exercised.
The value is based on the share price of 198.19p being the average share price over the last three months of the performance period being the period from 1 January to 30 March 2017.
2 Mike was appointed on 17 October 2016 and his remuneration has been pro-rated from 17 October 2016 to 30 March 2017 including his annual bonus payment.
3 Mike Iddon did not receive a Co-Investment Plan Award in 2014 as this was prior to his joining the Company.
4 N ick resigned as a Director on 4 April 2016, however, he remained with the Group in an advisory role until 1 July 2016.
The remuneration shown for FY17 includes payments up to 1 July 2016.
5 FY16 was a 53 week year and so the total single figure for FY16 contains the additional payment over and above the basic remuneration for the 53rd week.
6 N icks total remuneration in FY16 includes the 19.2% of the total Matching Award that he received under the Co-Investment Plan equal to 198,168 as detailed below.
Base salary corresponds to the amount received during the relevant financial year.
Benefits corresponds to the taxable value of benefits received during the relevant financial year and principally includes company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension corresponds to either the amount contributed to personal pension plans or the cash value of the salary supplement received during the relevant financial year.
Executive Directors receive a Company pension contribution worth 9% of their salary or a cash allowance where the annual allowance has been reached.
Annual bonus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the relevant financial year.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
Long term incentives corresponds to the amount earned by the Executive Directors in respect of the relevant financial year.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Annual Bonus Financial Minimum Maximum Achieved The maximum Annual Bonus opportunity for Executive Directors measures % base salary % base salary % of base salary in respect of FY17 was 100% of base salary.
EBITDA 130m 15% 134.5m 75% 130.5m 20.4% The targets for the Annual Bonus for the financial year ended Free cash 77.5m with a 81.5m with a 64.6m with a 1 flow minimum 60% cash 67% cash 50% cash 30March 2017, and the extent to which they were achieved, conversion 5% conversion 25% conversion Nil are as set out below.
For FY17, the annual bonus continued tobebased on EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25% and measured over a 52 week period.
1 F ree cash flow is defined as net cash from operating activities, less net cash used in investing activities, interest paid and finance lease commitments.
Free cash flow is stated before loans issued, exceptional costs and acquisitions of subsidiaries.
The achievement of the EBITDA target is calculated on a straight-line basis between Minimum and Maximum EBITDA.
The resultant percentages against each of the bonus measures achieved by each Executive Director are shown below: The Committee considered that the targets were stretching andrequired Executive Directors to deliver performance which Ian Kellett Mike Iddon significantly exceeded business expectations to achieve % of performance % of performance Measure target achieved target achieved fullpay-out.
EBITDA 27.2% 75% 27.2% 75% Free cash flow 0% 25% 0% 25% Total 20.4% 100% 20.4% 100% Long-term incentives The following sets out details of the Committees determination of the performance conditions attaching to the Matching Awards granted under the March 2014 Co-Investment Plan for which the final year of performance was FY17.
Awards become capable ofexercise in equal one third tranches, subject to continued employment, between May 2017 and March 2019.
Separate performance conditions applied to Early Leavers and these aredetailed on page 107.
Performance metric Targets for 20142017 Performance against targets EPS growth hurdle 10% of the total award will vest for earnings per share EPS growth of 10.8% of the three-year period EPS growth of 10% per annum, rising to 75% for EPS was over the hurdle of 10% growth of 17.5% per annum: and The EPS part of the award lapses if the EPS hurdle is not met.
Relative TSR 6.25% of the total award will vest for median Relative TSR performance over three years was 1 TSR performance against the Comparator Group, below median versus the Comparator Group rising to 25% for upper quartile TSR performance against the Index: and The TSR part of the award lapses if the TSR hurdle is not met.
Outcome The Committee determined that 16.8% of the total awards will vest 1 The Comparator Group is listed below: Booker Group Brown N Group Carpetright Debenhams Dignity Dixons Retail Dunelm Greggs Halfords Group Home Retail Group Inchcape Kingfisher Marks & Spencer Group Morrison WM Supermarkets Next Ocado Group Sainsbury J Sports Direct International Tesco UDG Healthcare Public WH Smith Pets at Home Group Plc 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Early Leavers Diluted EPS on underlying trading for FY16 was 15.0p based Nick Wood tendered his resignation on 4 April 2016 and ona profit after tax before exceptional items of 75,518,000 accordingly, in line with the early leaver provisions of the plan forthe 52 week period.
As a result, EPS growth over this period rules, up to 20% of his total Matching Award under the Cowas 16.9% p. a. and as a result 19.2% of Nick Woods Matching Investment Plan was eligible to vest on his leaving date of 1 July Award vested on 1 July 2016.
2016, subject to EPS performance measured up to the end of FY16.
Specifically, if EPS growth over the period from the FY14 This equated to 83,264 shares with a value of 198,168 based base year to the end of FY16 measured over the 52 week on the closing share price of 238p on the point of vesting being period was: 1 July 2016.
The figure has been included in FY16 since the Below 10% per annum, none of the total performance metrics were measured up to 31 March 2016.
Matching Award would vest: 10% p. a.
10% of the total Matching Award would vest: c Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Between 10% p. a. and 17.5% p. a. between for the year ended 30 March 2017 10% and 20% of the total Matching Award would vest The following table sets out the total remuneration for Nonon a straight-line basis : and Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board for the year Above 17.5% p. a.
20% of the total Matching Award would vest.
Nomination & Corporate Pets Before Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Profit CSR Additional Committee Committee Committee Committee Total single Total single Basic fees fees Chairman Chair Chairman Chair figure 2017 figure 2016 1 Director Tony DeNunzio 200,000 n a n a n a n a n a 200,000 203,846 2 3 Dennis Millard 50,000 20,000 n a n a n a n a 70,000 75,192 4 Brian Carroll 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 33,846 50,962 Paul Coby 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 50,000 50,962 Tessa Green 50,000 n a n a n a n a 10,000 60,000 61,154 Amy Stirling 50,000 n a n a 10,000 n a n a 60,000 61,154 5 Paul Moody 50,000 n a 10,000 n a n a n a 60,000 57,308 Nicolas Gheysens Nil n a n a n a n a n a Nil n a Notes 1 FY16 was a 53 week year and so the total single figure for FY16 contains the additional payment over and above the basic fees for the 53rd week.
2 The additional fee paid to Dennis Millard is in respect to his position as Deputy Chairman of the Board.
3 The total figure includes the fee paid to Dennis Millard as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the period from 27 March 2015 until his resignation on 9 September 2015.
4 Brian Carroll resigned on 2 December 2016.
5 T he total figure includes the fee paid to Paul Moody as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the period from his appointment on 9 September 2015 until the year ended 31 March 2016.
6 N icolas Gheysen was appointed to the Board on 2 December 2016 to replace Brian Carroll as KKRs nominated director on the Board.
As Nicolas is representing KKR, it has been agreed that hewill not receive any Directors fees in respect of his appointment.
d Scheme interests awarded during the financial year In 2016, Executive Directors received PSP and CSOP awards in line with the Policy as follows: Number of Number of Executive shares awarded Grant price shares awarded Grant price of % of salary for Performance Director Date of award under the PSP of PSP awards under the CSOP CSOP awards total awards period end date Ian Kellett 9 June 2016 217,077 Nil cost awards 11,551 259.7p 125% 28 March 2019 Mike Iddon 29 November 2016 185,620 Nil cost awards 14,097 212.8p 125% 28 March 2019 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 Annual Report on Remuneration continued All awards are made as performance shares based on a Leaving arrangements for Nick Wood percentage of salary and the value is divided by the closing share Nick Wood resigned from the Board with effect from 4 April price the day before the grants, being 259.7p for the award on 2016.
To ensure a smooth transition and provide support to 9June 2016 and 212.8p for the award on 29 November 2016. thenew CEO, he remained with the Group in an advisory role until 1July 2016.
Nick did not receive a termination payment.
The awards were made subject to the satisfaction of the following targets measured over a period of three financial During the period of his notice that he worked full-time, Nick years FY17-FY19 : received his salary and contractual benefits up to his date of termination, being 1 July 2016.
He did not receive any further 10% of the total award will vest for EPS growth of 5% per salary and contractual benefits for the period of his 12 month annum, rising to 75% for EPS growth of 12.5% per annum: and notice that remained after 1 July 2016 and he did not receive 6.25% of the total award will vest for median TSR performance any Annual Bonus for FY17.
against the FTSE 350 UK General Retail Index, rising to 25% forupper quartile TSR performance against the Index.
All payments made to him in respect of FY17 are reported inthesingle figure of remuneration.
The EPS part of the awards lapses if the EPS hurdle is not met.
The TSR part of the award lapses if the TSR hurdle is not met.
Nicks Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan was treated in line with the early leaver provisions of the plan rules.
Under In accordance with the Policy, the first 30,000 of the award these, time pro-rating was applied such that a maximum of 20% made is under the CSOP with the remainder up to 125% of Nicks Matching Award was eligible to vest, subject to the ofsalarybeing made under the PSP.
satisfaction of the EPS performance targets at the end of FY16.
As set out on page 107, performance against these targets as e Payments for loss of office atthe end of FY16 was such that 19.2% of the total award vested No payments for loss of office were made during on Nicks leaving the Companys service.
f Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors during the year.
g Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Committee believes that colleague share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of colleague interests with those of shareholders.
Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary, which should be built up over a period of five years.
A similar policy applies to the Executive Management Team.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually.
Pets at Home Group Plc 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below: Number of shares Interests in share Interests in share incentive schemes, incentive schemes, Shareholding awarded without awarded subject to requirement as a % of Shares owned performance performance Shares owned salary outright at conditions at conditions at outright at 1 Director target % achieved 30 March 2017 30 March 2017 30 March 2017 31 March 2016 2 Ian Kellett 1543% 4,047,056 10,341 283,483 4,047,056 Mike Iddon 24% 45,996 199,717 Nil Tony DeNunzio 3,158,026 3,158,026 Dennis Millard 30,000 16,327 Paul Coby 4,082 4,082 Tessa Green 40,816 40,816 Amy Stirling 16,327 16,327 Paul Moody 27,470 27,470 Nicolas Gheysens Nil Nil 1 F or the purposes of determining the target shareholding achieved, we have used the individuals salary, the closing share price as at 30 March 2017 181 pence and the shares owned outright at the same date.
2 The figure includes all of the 54,855 matching awards that vested at the end of the vesting period on 30 March 2017.
18,285 are exercisable in the first tranche.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
h TSR performance chart The Companys shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities on 17 March 2014.
The chart below shows performance from that date until the end of FY17.
This disclosure will be expanded in subsequent years in line with theregulations.
150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 Mar 2014 Mar 2015 Mar 2016 Mar 2017 Pets at Home FTSE 350 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Annual Report on Remuneration continued 1 CEO 2013 14 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2 CEO single figure of remuneration Ian Kellett 662,087 3 4 Nick Wood 19,460 790,461 962,224 129,696 Annual bonus pay-out Ian Kellett 20.4% as % of maximum opportunity Nick Wood 73% 75% 60% Long term incentive vesting Ian Kellett 16.8% as % of maximum opportunity 4 Nick Wood n a n a 96% 1 I n FY14, the single figure of remuneration relates to the period 17 March 2014 to 27 March 2014.
2 I an Kellett was appointed on 4 April 2016.
3 N ick Wood resigned as an Executive Director on 4 April 2016, however, he continued in the business until 1 July 2016.
His payment in FY17 relates to the period from 1 April 2016 to 1 July 2016.
4 U nder the early leaver provisions of the plan rules, Nick Wood received 19.2% of his total Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan, as shown in the single figure table.
Given that thisincluded time pro rating, with performance against the performance conditions being at 96% of maximum, the latter is shown here and the value of 198,168 of the Matching Awards ascalculated under paragraph b above is included in the single figure of remuneration.
i Percentage change in remuneration of the Group CEO The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of all colleagues: % change in base salary % change in bonus earned % change in benefits FY16 to FY17 FY16 to FY17 FY16 to FY17 Chief Executive 6.4% -63% No change 1 All colleagues 2.0% -36% No change 1 All colleague information is presented by comparing the average colleague information in FY16 to the average colleague information in FY17.
j Relative importance of the spend on pay k Dilution limits The following table shows the relationship between the Groups In accordance with the IA Guidelines, the Company can satisfy EBITDA, distributions to shareholders and the total remuneration awards under its colleague share plans with new issue shares paid to all colleagues.
up to maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period and within this 10% limit, the Company can only FY17 FY16 issue 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under m m discretionary plans i. e. the CSOP, PSP and new RSP.
1 EBITDA 130.5 127.4 l External appointments Returned to shareholders: Executive Directors are entitled to accept one external Dividend 39.9 27.9 appointment outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
Payments to colleagues: As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors Wages and salaries 161.1 143.6 held an external appointment for which they receive a fee.
1 T he Committee considers that EBITDA is an important KPI for the Company and provides shareholders with additional context as to how the business has performed financially in m Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment thelast two years.
The figures for FY16 are based on a 53 week period to 31 March 2016 A summary of the Non-Executive Directors letters of and the figures for FY17 are based on a 52 week period to 26 March 2015. appointment is contained on page 102 of the Policy.
Pets at Home Group Plc 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 3.
Statement of implementation for FY18 As for FY17, the annual bonus will be subject to malus and This section provides an overview of how the Committee clawback provisions.
This provides the Committee with the isproposing to implement our Policy in FY18.
abilityto take back amounts previously paid out for a period ofup to two years under certain circumstances, including Base salary misstatement and misconduct.
Base salaries were reviewed with effect from 31 March 2017 and the salaries of the Group CEO and Group CFO were Long term incentive awards increased by 2% which mirrors the increase generally awarded It is proposed that awards under the RSP will be made in FY18 tocolleagues in the Group.
at 75% of salary for Executive Directors in line with the new Remuneration Policy.
Executive Director Base salary Chief Executive Officer 484,500 Sharesave The Company intends to operate the Sharesave scheme again Chief Financial Officer 346,800 for FY18.
The maximum monthly savings will be retained at 500per month.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
Benefits The Committee sets benefits in line with the policy set out Non-Executive Director remuneration onpage 95 of the Appendix.
There are no changes proposed The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors have been reviewed tothe benefit framework in FY18.
and they will remain at the same level for FY18.
The table below shows the Non-Executive Director fee structure for FY18: Pensions FY18 Despite the change in pension policy to permit contributions up to 15% of base salary, there is no increase proposed to salary Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 200,000 supplement levels for the Executive Directors in FY18.
The table Basic Non-Executive Director fee 50,000 below shows salary supplements for FY18.
Board Committee Chairman fee 10,000 Executive Director % of salary Deputy Chairman 20,000 Ian Kellett 9% Mike Iddon 9% There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees.
Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors Shareholder context for the Committees activities in respect of FY18 will remain at 100% of base salary.
During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Willis Towers Watson WTW.
The annual bonus framework will be in line with that presented inthe policy table on page 96.
As highlighted in the Chairmans WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, letter, during the year the Committee reviewed the annual bonus as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation framework for FY17, with a view to ensuring that it remains to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee appropriate for the business.
has reviewed the advice provided byWTW during the year and iscomfortable that it has been objective and independent.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate at this time to Totalfees received by WTW in relation to the remuneration retain the framework that was put in place for FY17, so for FY18 advice provided to the Committee during FY17 amounted to the annual bonus will continue to be based on EBITDA 75% and 58,034 based on the required time commitment.
The achievement of the EBITDA target for the Executive Team will continue to be calculated on a straightDuring FY17 the Committee also received support from Travers line basis between minimum and maximum EBITDA.
Smith LLP on the terms of the discretionary and all colleague share plans.
Although the targets remain commercially sensitive at this time, we will provide shareholders with full disclosure of the EBITDA and free cash flow targets in next years report.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Committee membership and meetings Attendee Position The Directors listed below in the table served on the Committee Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Board during the year.
The Committee met five times during FY17 and Paul Coby Non-Executive Director the Committee members attendance is also shown in the table below.
Ian Kellett Group CEO Nicolas Gheysens Non-Executive Director Meetings Member Period From To attended Louise Stonier Chief People and Legal Officer and Group Paul Moody 1 April 2016 To date 4 Company Secretary Chairman Peter Pritchard CEO of Retail Dennis Millard 1 April 2016 To date 4 Tessa Green 1 April 2016 To date 4 None of the individuals attended part of any meeting in which Amy Stirling 1 April 2016 To date 4 their own compensation was discussed.
The individuals listed in the table to the right, none of whom Governance wereCommittee members, attended at least part of the meeting The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout FY17 by invitation during the year.
and up to the date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating toDirectors remuneration.
Shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 14 September 2016, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights was 500,000,000.
The resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: 1 2 3 4 Votes for % Votes against % Votes total % of isc Votes withheld Ordinary Resolutions 2 T o approve the Directors 407,247,776 99.81 761,607 0.19 408,009,383 81.60 1,006,716 Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 Notes 1 Votes for include discretionary votes.
2 Percentages above are rounded to two decimal places.
3 Issued share capital at meeting date: 500,000,000.
4 A v ote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
Annual General Meeting As set out in my statement on page 92, our Policy and our Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to a binding andanadvisory vote at our AGM to be held on 11 July 2017.
On behalf of the Board Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2017 Pets at Home Group Plc 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Financial statements Independent Auditors Report 114 Consolidated income statement 117 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 117 Consolidated balance sheet 118 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 30 March 2017 119 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 31 March 2016 120 Consolidated statement of cash flows 121 Company balance sheet 122 Company statement of changes in equity as at 30 March 2017 123 Company statement of changes in equity as at 31 March 2016 123 Company income statement 123 Company statement of cash flows 124 Notes forming part of the financial statements 125 Glossary Alternative Performance Measures 179 Advisors and contacts 184 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113
