Dear Shareholder, As I have highlighted previously, the I am pleased to introduce the Directors remuneration outcomes for the executives at Directors Remuneration Report for the year.
Landsec are largely driven by outperformance The political and economic uncertainty versus our peers and do not always reflect our Remuneration to which I alluded last year has certainly absolute performance.
For Total Property accelerated in some unexpected ways, Return, our performance is compared to beginning with the UKs decision to leave the IPD, a widely-used industry benchmark over Report European Union.
Although the UK economy both a one year and three year period, for has continued to perform well overall, the the calculation of bonus and LTIP outturns Chairmans property industry has been impacted by respectively.
Over one year, we estimate wavering consumer and business confidence.
that we will have slightly underperformed We believe our decision to complete speculative the benchmark which now encompasses all Annual development earlier than others remains the March-valued properties within IPD.
The priorities over the past year have three year period, where we are still measured Statement been to lengthen lease terms in London offices, against a sector weighted index of the IPD and to lease up our development programme, Quarterly Universe, I am pleased to say we have including Westgate Oxford, due to open in outperformed the benchmark.
Behind the scenes, we have also been this while putting the business on such a strong active in ensuring that the business is in the financial footing is a very good performance.
Committee members best possible position financially, culturally, In terms of Total Shareholder Return, we are reputationally and capability-wise to take measured over a three year period and were Simon Palley Chairman advantage of new opportunities to deliver disappointed not to outperform our peer group.
Dame Alison Carnwath Edward Bonham Carter Cressida Hogg CBE Independent Non-executive Director Highlights Reviewed and approved the remuneration outcomes for 2016 17 for Executive Directors and the Executive Committee Gathered insight on the sentiment of shareholders and other key stakeholders as context for planning the review of the remuneration policy in 2018 Oversaw the approach to the reporting ofgender pay.
Key responsibilities Reviews and recommends to the Board the executive remuneration policy Determines the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee Oversight of the Groups remuneration policy for all employees.
76 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Simon Palley Chairman, Remuneration Committee Governance Our relative share price has been impacted by a More detail on remuneration When this performance was combined with number of factors including sentiment towards outcomes for the year the strong performance against their individual our market sectors, particularly London, and The annual bonus for the year was slightly objectives, the total bonus pay-out was 88.1% no exposure to continental Europe at a time above target for Executive Directors, but below of salary for Robert Noel 58.7% of maximum of sterling devaluation.
The performance can be and 86.1% for Martin Greenslade 57.4% of Following positive feedback from summarised as follows: maximum, both lower than last year.
shareholders, we have chosen to lay out the Turning to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, As I mentioned above, our measure of Total report in a very similar way to last year.
which is for performance over the three years to Property Return now uses a broader and The full details of the Remuneration Policy, 31 March 2017, the outturn is as follows: unweighted IPD benchmark of all Marchapproved by shareholders in 2015, are contained valued properties.
The benchmark was not Our Total Property Return of 12.7% per in the back section of the Annual Report, available at the time of writing, but we annum over the three years outperformed on pages 175 to 179.
For ease of reference, a expect to slightly underperform, resulting in that of our benchmark, the sector-weighted summary of the proposed implementation of no payment from this element of the bonus.
IPD Quarterly Universe, which was 11.5% per the policy for 2017 18 is included within the annum.
As a result, this element vests in full.
The revenue profit performance was again Directors Remuneration Report on page 90. very strong, significantly above our threshold However, our Total Shareholder Return over We have included the key information, including set in 2015.
This reflects increased rents from the same period was 9.2%, versus 16.2% for an at a glance summary of the outturns for our successful development programme and the comparator group.
This element of the the year, immediately following my statement.
lower interest costs, more than outweighing LTIP, therefore, does not vest.
rent lost through disposals last year.
There Therefore, in total, 50% of the 2014 awards has also been strong ongoing discipline will vest.
around the management of costs.
This element of the plan paid out in full.
Looking forward Later this year we will be consulting Performance against the specific business with shareholder representatives on our objectives was more mixed.
Retail had a Remuneration Policy, in preparation for the strong performance, with high demand for binding vote at next years AGM.
Executive space at Westgate Oxford, and the successful pay is an area that is attracting a great pre-letting of the extension to White Rose, deal of focus from many quarters, including Leeds as particular highlights.
As ever, we are very keen to work where the impact of current political and within the spirit of stakeholder sentiment, while economic uncertainty on demand has been ensuring that any proposals continue to drive more keenly felt, the ambitious development the right behaviours from our executives, who letting targets have been challenging to remain completely focused on the delivery of meet.
Other corporate objectives have ourstated goal To outperform our peer group focused on evolving the culture through the in terms of total shareholder return through office move and pressing ahead with our theproperty cycles.
ambitious sustainability agenda, and these I look forward to discussions with some of have largely been met.
Simon Palley Chairman, Remuneration Committee Landsec Annual Report 2017 77
