88 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The following section sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy.
This policy is subject to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 5 July 2017 and, if approved, will be effective from this date.
Changes to the Remuneration Policy Although the policy is being renewed, the key features remain unchanged from the policy previously approved by shareholders in 2014.
As part of the review minor amendments have been made to reflect evolving market and best practice.
These include: The introduction of a two-year holding period on Future Builder awards granted from 2017 onwards, which means future awards will normally be released five years after the grant date: Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors, other than the CEO, are increased to 2.0 times salary, with the requirement for the CEO remaining at 2.5 times salary: Retirement benefits for any future appointment are reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent of salary: and Strengthened recovery provisions malus and clawback.
Policy Table for Executive Directors The table below summarises each element of the policy for Executive Directors, with further details set out after the table.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Core element of remuneration used to attract and retain executives who can deliver our strategic objectives.
Operation Typically reviewed annually in March.
Consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including business and individual performance, role, responsibilities, scope, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Opportunity Salary increases in percentage of salary terms for Executive Directors will normally be within the range of those for the wider workforce.
There is no maximum salary opportunity.
Where the Committee considers it necessary and appropriate, larger increases may be awarded in individual circumstances such as: A change in scope or responsibility: If a new Executive Director is appointed at a lower rate and the salary is realigned over time as the individual gains experience in the role: or Alignment to market level.
Salary levels effective for 2017 18: Mike Coupe 943,428 John Rogers 695,402 Kevin OByrne 625,000 Performance details None Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Competitive benefits to assist in attracting and retaining executives.
Operation A range of benefits may be provided including, but not limited to, the provision of company car benefits or cash equivalent, private medical cover, life assurance, long-term disability insurance, all-employee share plan participation and colleague discount.
The Committee keeps the benefits offered, the policies and the levels provided under regular review.
Opportunity The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the context of relevant market practice for comparable roles and taking into account any individual circumstances e. g. relocation.
There is no maximum monetary value.
Participation in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plan is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation.
Performance details None Retirement benefits Purpose and link to strategy Provides an income following retirement and assists colleagues in building funds for their future.
Operation JS Self Invested Pension Plan SIPP, a defined contribution plan and or a cash salary supplement.
Opportunity Maximum value of up to 30 per cent of salary per annum for existing Executive Directors, with a maximum value of up to 25 per cent of salary per annum for any new Executive Director appointments.
For new hires the nature and value of any pension provided will be, in the Committees view, reasonable in the context of market practice for comparable roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Company.
Performance details None Governance Report 89 Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Rewards performance on an annual basis against key financial and individual objectives.
Operation Performance measured over one year, bonus payable in cash after the year-end.
Bonus level determined by the Committee after the year-end based on performance against targets.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of salary per annum.
The level of threshold payment for performance varies depending on the performance measure, with payouts from zero per cent.
Full payout requires outperformance of stretch objectives.
Maximum opportunity for 2017 18: Mike Coupe 110 per cent of salary John Rogers 90 per cent of salary Kevin OByrne 90 per cent of salary Performance details Based on a combination of financial e. g. profit and individual metrics.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any bonus payments can be made.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee year-on-year based on the Companys strategic goals.
At least half of any award will be subject to financial measures.
Deferred Share Award DSA Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of short-term strategic and financial objectives which contribute towards long-term sustainable growth.
Balance with annual bonus to ensure management remain mindful of long-term consequences of short-term actions.
Awards delivered in shares to provide further alignment with shareholders.
Operation Performance measured over one year, after which awards are made as conditional shares or equivalent deferred for two financial years.
After the year-end, performance is assessed in the round based on the Committees judgement of performance achieved.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually in light of the strategic plan.
Dividends or equivalents may accrue on vested shares.
No DSA grants are made unless threshold performance levels are reached, with full vesting requiring outperformance of stretch objectives.
Maximum opportunity for 2017 18: Mike Coupe 110 per cent of salary John Rogers 90 per cent of salary Kevin OByrne 90 per cent of salary Performance details Basket of metrics covering four categories: financial performance, returns to shareholders, relative performance against peers and strategic goals.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any awards can be made.
At least half of any award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
90 90 90 G G Go o ov v ver er ern n na a an n nc c ce e e R R Rep ep epor or ort t t Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Future Builder Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of Company performance and shareholder value over the longer term.
Share-based to provide greater alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation Awards of conditional share awards or equivalent with vesting dependent on performance measured over a period of at least three financial years.
Vested awards will normally be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the performance period which means future awards will normally be released five years after the grant date.
The Committee reviews the metrics, targets and weightings prior to each grant to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Opportunity Maximum award of up to 250 per cent of salary per annum in respect of any financial year.
Awards structured as core award up to 62.5 per cent of salary per annum with a performance multiplier of up to 4 times.
For achievements at threshold levels of performance, up to 25 per cent of maximum under each element may vest.
Based on the current structure this is equivalent to a multiplier of 1 times the core award.
Award levels for 2017 18: Mike Coupe core award of 62.5 per cent of salary John Rogers core award of 50 per cent of salary Kevin OByrne core award of 50 per cent of salary Performance details Based on a combination of financial and strategic measures appropriate within the context of the Company strategy and external environment over the relevant performance period.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any awards vest.
Prior to granting awards, the Committee will review the performance conditions and may opt to vary the metrics and weightings to ensure measures and targets remain aligned with its objectives.
The Committee would seek to consult as appropriate with its major shareholders regarding any material changes.
Weightings for 2017 18 awards: ROCE 20 per cent EPS 20 per cent Cash flow 20 per cent Cost savings 20 per cent Synergies 20 per cent Shareholding guidelines Purpose and link to strategy Alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation Guidelines are Chief Executive 2.5 times salary, other Executive Directors 2.0 times salary.
Guideline expected to be met within five years of appointment.
Governance Report 91 Setting performance measures and targets Consideration of colleague pay and conditions The Committee believes it is important that the performance conditions When considering remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, the applying to incentive arrangements support the short and long-term Committee takes into account, as a matter of course, the pay and conditions corporate ambitions of the Company.
We operate in a dynamic market with of colleagues throughout the Company.
evolving challenges and the Committee reviews the performance measures In particular, the Committee receives regular updates of any major changes and targets each year to ensure that they remain relevant and stretching.
to the pay and benefits of colleagues generally and the Committee takes Further details of the performance measures are set out in the Annual Report into account wider pay issues when determining Executive Directors on Remuneration.
When setting Executive Director salary increases the The performance measures in the annual bonus and Deferred Share Award Committee considers the overall salary increase budget for management and are selected as they are the key drivers of business performance.
The targets the increase in rate of pay for hourly-paid colleagues, including the impact for the annual bonus and DSA are set with reference to the corporate strategy that implementing the National Living Wage has on colleague pay.
and internal budgets as well as the external context e. g. market forecasts.
The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues on the setting This approach seeks to ensure that the threshold and stretch targets are of the policy but as a result of the Companys all-employee share plans, appropriately challenging.
colleagues are able to become shareholders in the Company and can The Future Builder performance measures focus on longer term growth and comment on the policy in the same way as other shareholders.
Additionally, returns to shareholders, and a similar target-setting approach is used.
as mentioned in the Corporate Responsibility Report, we are looking at forums for our Non-Executive Directors and colleague representatives to The Committee may vary or rebalance the weighting of the performance discuss key business issues including remuneration.
metrics for future annual bonus, DSA and Future Builder awards, in order to ensure that they remain aligned with the Companys strategic objectives.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for all colleagues The Committee may also adjust the targets for awards or the calculation Many aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors are of performance measures and vesting outcomes for events not foreseen consistent with the reward strategy for other colleagues across the Company.
at the time the targets were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection of Below executive level, pay and benefits are scaled to reflect the nature of the performance over the relevant period.
role and based on the levels of pay in comparable roles in the market.
Recovery provisions malus and clawback preventing All colleagues, including colleagues at Sainsburys Bank and Sainsburys Argos, are entitled to base salary, benefits including pension and colleague rewards for failure discount.
Eligible colleagues participate in our annual bonus plans which are The Remuneration Committee may operate recovery provisions malus and aligned under a common set of principles with performance metrics tailored clawback on all incentive awards.
The Committee may reduce or cancel an to different populations.
unvested award, or impose further conditions on an unvested award in the event of material mis-statement of financial results, serious reputational Senior executives expected to have the greatest influence on Company damage, serious misconduct or fraud.
performance over time are eligible for participation in long-term incentive plans.
All colleagues have the opportunity to become shareholders in the In addition, in the circumstances outlined above, the Committee may Company through our all-employee share plans.
clawback incentives, by requiring an Executive Director to make a repayment in relation to bonus payments and share awards.
This provision would apply Participation in a pension plan is offered to all colleagues on a contributory for up to two years following the end of the relevant performance period.
basis, with the Company contribution varying by grade.
Following autoenrolment, we now have over 120,000 colleagues in our pension plans.
92 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Potential total remuneration opportunity Mike Coupe under our pay policy The Committee believes it is important that a significant portion of the 6,000 5,675 package for Executive Directors is performance-related and delivered 5,000 in shares to align their interests with shareholders.
The balance 42% between fixed pay base salary, pension and benefits and variable pay 4,000 3,459 annual bonus, Deferred Share Award and Future Builder changes with 3,000 34% 18% performance.
The variable proportion of total remuneration increases significantly for increased levels of performance.
At least 60 per cent of 2,000 15% 18% 1,243 15% the package is delivered through variable pay at mid-point performance 1,000 and this proportion increases to at least three-quarters of the package at 100% 36% 22% maximum levels of performance.
0 Minimum Mid-point Maximum The charts show the total remuneration potential of the Executive Directors, in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, under three Fixed pay Annual bonus DSA Future Builder performance scenarios.
In line with the regulations, the charts exclude the effect of share price movements.
John Rogers Kevin OByrne 4,000 3,500 3,173 3,611 3,500 3,000 3,000 39% 39% 2,500 2,500 2,290 2,000 1,986 2,000 18% 30% 17% 1,500 32% 1,500 14% 17% 18% 14% 970 1,000 798 14% 1,000 14% 500 500 100% 42% 27% 100% 25% 40% 0 0 Minimum Mid-point Maximum Minimum Mid-point Maximum Fixed pay Annual bonus DSA Future Builder Fixed pay Annual bonus DSA Future Builder Opportunity Minimum Mid-point Maximum Fixed pay Salary Mike Coupe 943,428: John Rogers 695,402: Kevin OByrne 625,000 Benefits value in line with 2016 17 Pension CEO 30% of salary: other Executive Directors 25% of salary CEO 110% of salary Annual bonus Nil 50% of maximum 100% of maximum Other Executive Directors 90% of salary Deferred Share CEO 110% of salary Nil 50% of maximum 100% of maximum Award Other Executive Directors 90% of salary CEO core award of 62.5% of salary Future Builder Nil Multiplier of 2.0x Multiplier of 4.0x Other Executive Directors core award 50% of salary Our approach to recruitment The Committee believes it is vital to be able to attract and recruit leaders of the calibre required to deliver our strategic objectives, while remaining mindful of the cost to the Company.
When determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments, the Committee intends to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The Committee will seek to align the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
Fixed pay Salary and benefits including retirement benefits would be determined in accordance with the Policy Table above.
An alternative package may also be necessary where an individual fulfils an executive role on an interim basis.
In certain cases, the initial salary for a new appointment may be set at a lower level, with the intention of increasing the salary over time as the executive gains experience in the role.
Benefits may need to be tailored based on the individual circumstances e. g. relocation, housing or travel allowances may be required.
Variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be offered to an executive will be no more than 500 per cent of salary excluding any buy-out pay arrangements.
This limit is consistent with the overall maximum set out in the Policy Table.
Within these limits and where appropriate the Committee may tailor the award e. g. timeframe, form, performance criteria based on the commercial circumstances.
Shareholders will be informed of the terms for any such arrangements.
Buy-outs The Committee may need to buy-out remuneration terms forfeited on joining the Company.
In such circumstances, the Committee will seek to ensure any buy-out is of comparable commercial value and capped as appropriate.
The quantum, form and structure of any buy-out arrangement will be determined by the Committee taking into account the terms of the previous arrangement being forfeited e. g. form and structure of award, timeframe, performance criteria, likelihood of vesting, etc..
The buy-out may be structured as an award of cash or shares.
However, the Committee will normally have a preference for replacement awards to be made in the form of shares and to be within the Companys existing incentive plans.
Where an executive is appointed from either within the Company or following corporate activity reorganisation e. g. acquisition of another company, the normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
000 000 000 Governance Report 93 On the appointment of a new Non-Executive Chairman or Non-Executive or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Director, the terms and fees will normally be consistent with the fee policy plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off outlined later in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
corporate events, such as a change in the Companys capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than Service contracts and policy for departing shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
Executive Directors On a change of control, Deferred Share Awards would be released or vest The Companys policy is for Executive Directors service contracts to be in full.
Future Builder awards may vest taking account of relevant factors terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
including progress against relevant performance conditions and may be prorated based on time.
Contracts contain non-compete and non-solicit clauses with key suppliers and colleagues.
The Companys normal practice is that Executive Directors In the event of a demerger or other significant distribution, Deferred Share may take up one non-executive role outside the Company, with approval Awards or Future Builder awards may be allowed to vest wholly or in part.
from the Board, subject to the role being in a business that does not compete A winding up, administration or a voluntary arrangement event would with the Company and with consideration of the time commitment.
Directors result in Deferred Share Awards being released or vesting in full and Future are normally entitled to retain the fees earned from such appointments.
Builder awards would normally vest subject to achievement of the relevant In the event of early termination without notice, any severance payment performance conditions on the same time pro-rated basis as above.
would be limited to one-years salary and benefits including pension, In similar corporate events, awards under HMRC approved all-employee plans normally payable on a phased basis and subject to mitigation.
Benefits would vest in accordance with the standard approved terms.
payable may include certain one-off benefits in connection with termination such as legal costs and the costs of meeting any settlement agreement.
The Committee may approve payments to satisfy commitments agreed prior There are no specific terms relating to a change of control.
to the implementation of this policy where such commitment was either: i made prior to the implementation of the 2014 Remuneration Policy: or ii The Executive Directors service contracts are available for shareholders to agreed during the term of, and was consistent with, the 2014 Remuneration view at the Companys registered office.
This includes previous incentive awards that are currently outstanding The Committee retains discretion to determine the exact termination and unvested e. g. prior year Deferred Share Awards.
The structure of terms of any Executive Director, having regard to all the relevant facts these legacy awards are generally consistent with the Policy Table but and circumstances available to them at the time.
The table below sets the performance conditions applying may be different.
Further details of out the general position and range of approaches in respect of incentive outstanding awards are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In accordance with the terms of the relevant incentive plan The Committee may also approve payments outside of this policy, in order rules, based on the circumstances of any departure the Committee has to satisfy any legacy arrangements made to a colleague prior to and not in discretion to determine how an Executive Director should be categorised for contemplation of promotion to the Board of Directors.
each element and determine vesting levels accordingly based on the range shown below.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approvals Detailed provisions e. g. for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to Deferred Share Awards and Future Builder awards are subject to the terms take account of a change in legislation provided that any such change is not of the relevant plan rules under which the award has been granted.
It is to the material advantage of colleagues.
expected that future awards would normally be granted under the LTIP rules approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee may adjust Bad leaver Good leaver e. g. termination for cause, etc.
e. g. cessation due to ill-health, injury, etc.
Annual bonus No entitlement following date notice served.
Bonus may be payable subject to performance.
Awards normally pro-rated based on the period worked during the financial year, with payments usually occurring following the year-end.
Deferred Share Award No entitlement to current years award following date Participants may be considered for an award, but normally notice served.
must be employed and not under notice to receive current years award.
Unvested awards will lapse on notice.
Outstanding unvested awards normally do not lapse.
Awards may be pro-rated for the proportion of the deferral period elapsed on cessation, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Awards may vest following cessation or at another date.
On death, unvested awards will be released and vest in full.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Unvested awards will lapse on notice.
Unvested awards normally vest at the normal time subject to i. e. Future Builder performance.
Awards will normally be pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed since cessation, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
On death, awards vest early on cessation with performance measured at this time.
Awards are pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed since cessation.
If the Director leaves in the first six months after the start of the performance period, the award normally lapses in full.
All-employee share plans In line with HMRC rules.
9 94 4 G Go ov ver ern na an nc ce e R Rep epor ort t Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors appointments may be terminated at any time Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Chairman by serving three months written notice by either party: six months in the and Non-Executive Directors case of the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Non-Executive Directors letters The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is determined by the of appointment are available for shareholders to view at the Companys Remuneration Committee and the remuneration of the Non-Executive registered office.
Directors by the Non-Executive Chairman and Executive Directors.
The NonExecutive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fees and are eligible for certain benefits.
Non-Executive roles are not entitled to any performancerelated pay or pension.
The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
The Companys policy is to appoint the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for an initial three-year period, which may be extended for a further term by mutual consent.
The initial appointments and any subsequent reappointments are subject to annual election or re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Approach to setting The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract individuals with the necessary remuneration experience and ability to oversee the business.
Fees may be paid in cash or shares.
Typically reviewed annually in September.
Judgement is used but consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including responsibilities, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Where appropriate benefits may be provided such as private medical cover, annual medical assessment and colleague discount.
Travel and other reasonable expenses including any associated taxes incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
Opportunity Fee opportunity reflects responsibility and time commitment.
Additional fees are paid for further responsibilities such as chairing committees.
The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and take account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided in comparable roles.
Fee levels as at 12 March 2017: Non-Executive Chairman 500,000 per annum Basic fee 65,000 per annum Senior Independent Director, Chair of Remuneration and Audit Committees additional fee 18,500 per annum Chairman of Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee additional fee 13,000 per annum Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee values the views of the Companys shareholders and guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
The Committee proactively consults extensively with our major shareholders to ensure that their views are represented in discussions on remuneration matters.
As part of the process for approaching the renewal of the policy, the Committee consulted with major shareholders on a range of topics including potential alternative incentive structures.
The renewed policy reflects guidance received from major investors during the course of the engagement process.
The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM on 5 July 2017.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Approved by the Board on 2 May 2017.
Mary Harris Chairman, Remuneration Committee
