Governance Governance Remuneration report I am delighted to have joined the Whitbread Board at the beginning of 2017, and to have succeeded Stephen Williams as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 March 2017.
2016 17 was a busy year for the Committee.
Introduction Our philosophy The remuneration policy, which was The updated remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, is reflects our philosophy that executives reaching the end of its three-year life.
should be paid fairly, that they should Coupled with Alison Brittain announcing be incentivised to achieve outstanding the three strategic priorities for the results, rewarded for doing so and that Group this time last year, the time was targets should be stretching enough so right for a detailed review of Whitbreads as to avoid large payouts for mediocre remuneration policy.
The Committee is very aware of the significant attention on I would like to thank Stephen for his executive remuneration and of our work chairing the Committee over the responsibilities to all Whitbreads last three years and for the support he stakeholders.
We are also aware of the has provided to me as I take on the role.
need for Whitbread to be competitive Stephen has kindly agreed to remain in the employment market, so that on the Board and the Remuneration the Company is able to attract and Committee until the AGM and both retain high-calibre executives with he and I will be available to answer appropriate experience.
shareholders questions on remuneration at the meeting.
This will provide us with I believe that we have the right balance Deanna Oppenheimer a six-month period during which we will and this is demonstrated by the fact Chair, Remuneration Committee both be members of the Committee.
that rewards under the Annual Incentive Scheme this year are slightly less than I fully support the outcome of the policy 50% of maximum, when Whitbread review and, while much of the work on has once again achieved a good the new policy took place before I joined performance, with underlying profit Whitbread, I attended the Committee before tax increasing by 6.2% to meetings since January at which the 565.2 million.
feedback from our shareholders was carefully considered and the updated Shareholder engagement policy agreed.
Having completed our The Committee has consulted with consultation with our major investors, Whitbreads major investors, along with we will be putting the updated policy Glass Lewis, ISS and the Investment to shareholders for approval at the AGM Association, twice this year.
The first in June 2017. consultation was in relation to the revised structure of the Companys The new policy is an evolution of the remuneration policy and the second existing policy and we have only made was in connection with changes to the changes where we believe they are LTIP performance conditions.
These essential in the context of the strategic consultations have been very helpful priorities of the business.
Our philosophy to us as we have formulated both policy is to align remuneration directly with the and targets for the future and I would Companys strategy and its business like to thank all those who responded plans.
Importantly, there will be no to the consultations for their time changes to maximum award levels or and input.
Following feedback, as holding periods, and both malus and mentioned above, we have decided to clawback clauses will continue to apply improve the disclosure in relation to the to both incentive schemes.
targets, particularly in relation to the Annual Incentive Plan.
We have also taken theopportunity to extend the circumstances in which clawback and Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 78 Governance malus conditions would apply to include See pages 8 to 13 for more information incentive be payable based on in-year a situation where material damage is on Whitbreads strategy.
profit, with the remaining 50% split done to the Companys reputation.
equally between: The Committee set out to propose Moredetails on these consultations a policy, which is designed to align financially orientated, objective canbe found in the sections below.
remuneration structures directly with and measurable individual strategic Greater transparency strategy, while retaining the key objectives, linked to Whitbreads As I mentioned above, during the measures which shareholders have measurable long-term goals: and recent consultations, a number of our indicated are most critical to them.
objectively determined WINcard shareholders stressed the importance With this in mind, the Committee measures, to include team retention ofgood disclosure and transparency.
agreed certain changes to the incentive and customer measures, which are all Asa result of the feedback we received, schemes in order to align them more critical leading indicators of the future we have decided that wherever possible, closely to the longer-term strategy, financial performance of the Group.
we will disclose the incentivised targets.
taking account of the business context We received a number of questions Last year, for the first time, we in which we are operating, and to during the consultation with shareholders retrospectively disclosed our profit simplify their operation.
about the kind of strategic measures target and committed to disclose the In particular, we identified that the which we will adopt for the executive 2015 16 target in this report.
This Annual Incentive Scheme was weighted directors.
Shareholders were keen to disclosure can be found on page 88. too heavily towards in-year profit and make sure that the targets were clear As a result of the shareholder feedback, that the LTIP performance measures and tangible and closely linked to the we have given some thought to how were overly complex.
During the latter delivery of profit in the business.
The we can improve the transparency of part of 2016, Stephen Williams wrote Remuneration Committee agrees that our targets still further and have now to our 20 largest shareholders as well the targets must be tangible, stretching decided to disclose our 2016 17 profit as a number of proxy advisers in order and objectively measurable and aligned target in addition to 2015 16 target.
to get their views on the proposed with the three-point strategy for the This can also be found on page 88. changes to the remuneration policy.
A table We have also included a new table Respondents were generally pleased showing these changes is set out in the section of the report on key with the simplification of the LTIP below, using Alison Brittains strategic performance indicators on pages 16 to andaccepted the rationale for the objectives as an example.
Information 19, which brings greater clarity to the re-alignment of the Annual Incentive on the strategic objectives for all of targets set for incentivised measures.
Scheme to include greater focus the executive directors is provided on on the longer-term strategy.
Updated policy During the past year, the Committees The changes that we propose We do not propose to make any activities have been dominated by to the existing scheme structures changes to the quantum of awards a detailed review of Whitbreads are as follows: andclawback and malus clauses will remuneration policy.
The review started continue to apply.
We propose that Annual Incentive Scheme at the beginning of 2016 and, shortly 50%of all short-term incentives will be The Annual Incentive Scheme will afterwards, Alison Brittain set out her deferred in shares, which are released be rebalanced, such that executives three strategic priorities for the Group: after a three-year period the deferral are focused as much on driving the amount currently varies depending on to grow and innovate in the UK: longer-term strategic aims as they are the measure, and in recent years has on in-year profit.
This is particularly to focus on Whitbreads strengths been around the 50% mark.
important for Whitbread as the to grow internationally: and Company invests significant capital into Long Term Incentive Plan to build the capability and platform maintaining the strength of its brands.
We plan to simplify the scheme by to support future growth.
It is proposed that 50% of the annual removing the matrix relationship between the two LTIP measures and moving to two equally weighted and 1 Annual Incentive Scheme performance targets independently measured components of EPS and ROCE.
Again, we do not Proportion of Objective Target maximum opportunity propose that there be any increase in the maximum level of award.
Annual profit growth Underlying profit before tax 50% The awards will still be subject to a Individual strategic two-year post-vesting holding period objectives: and clawback and malus clauses will UK growth Growth in Premier Inn rooms, Costa stores, 25% continue to apply.
Costa Express machines and Group like for like sales Whitbread is investing substantial International growth Growth in German hotel pipeline and Costa China sums of capital in its business to provide Cost efficiency Achieve the in-year efficiency plan strong future growth.
ROCE remains a critical measure of performance for WINcard measures Team retention 25% shareholders, and no changes to the Customer heartbeat ROCE ranges, which will remain at 13% to 18%, are proposed.
1 The individual strategic objectives shown in the table are those of Alison Brittain.
The objectives set for the other executive directors can be found on page 97.
The annual profit growth target and the WINcard measures are consistent for all three executive directors.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 79 Governance Governance Remuneration report continued In relation to the EPS measure, the on the background to this proposal, This report current range in the policy is RPI 4% please see the Chairmans statement on The policy report, which follows atthreshold to RPI 10% at maximum page 5, the strategy section on pages 8 this statement, sets out details of payout.
As articulated earlier in the to 13 and the Group Finance Directors the remuneration structure, which Annual Report, Whitbread has review on page 55. shareholders will be asked to approve benefitted from a period of sustained at the 2017 AGM.
The annual report on Set out below is a table which summarises growth in the last five years.
While the remuneration explains what directors the proposed new structure of the LTIP Group plans to continue growing for were paid in 2016 17, including the performance conditions: the long term, as outlined in detail to awards under the incentive schemes, shareholders at the Capital Market Day and also gives some detail on how in November 2016, current investment our policy will be implemented in Entitlement is required to deliver long-term growth 2017 18 in the event that it is approved LTIP Measure Target Range % of max and the Committee has reflected those by shareholders.
EPS growth 4% to 10% CAGR 50% financial plans in setting the LTIP targets.
I look forward to working with my Return on 13% to 18% 50% Capital In addition, as we move into a period colleagues on the Board and the Employed of more economic uncertainty, the Remuneration Committee and to Committee believes that having RPI as meeting shareholders at the AGM part of the calculation will introduce in June.
undue volatility into the measure and We have also removed the ability to could result in extreme upside or provide an additional joining award of downside impact on payouts, which up to 200% of salary on recruitment bear no correlation to the underlying and limited any awards to those needed performance of the business.
For these to compensate a joiner for the loss of reasons, we believe now is the right time awards from the previous employer.
to move away from using RPI as part Deanna Oppenheimer Other remuneration of the EPS measure.
Having carefully Chair, Remuneration Committee No changes have been made to the considered the business plans of the 24 April 2017 policy approved in 2014 in relation Group and current consensus estimates, to the base salary, pension or benefits we propose to leave the range at 4% to of executive directors.
For more information The statements below, the remuneration policy report and the annual report on remuneration form the directors remuneration report, which was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Deanna Oppenheimer on 24 April 2017.
Linkage between strategy and incentives Winning Customer Profitable Everyday Teams Heartbeat Growth Efficiency Measure Measure Measure Measure Premier Inn brand health Underlying basic EPS Delivery of in-year Team retention efficiency plan Restaurants net Return on capital Health and safety gateway recommend Underlying profit before tax Costa net recommend Brand expansion Health and safety gateway Like for like sales Scheme Scheme Scheme Scheme LTIP Annual Incentive Scheme Annual Incentive Scheme Annual Incentive Scheme Annual Incentive Scheme Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 80 Governance Remuneration policy report Introduction This report outlines the Companys remuneration policy, which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2017 AGM.
Subject to shareholder approval, the policy will be effective from the date of the 2017 AGM and is intended to apply for three years.
For executives, our approach continues provide an appropriate balance The policy table below provides to be designed so as to: between remuneration elements more detail on each key element of that attract, retain and motivate the remuneration, including the maximum align with the business strategy and highest calibre of executive talent: and potential value of each element, a brief the achievement of planned business summary of how it works and details encourage a highperformance goals: of any performance metrics.
culture by ensuring performance support the creation of sustainable related remuneration constitutes a longterm shareholder value: substantial proportion of the remuneration package and by linking maximum payout opportunity to outstanding results.
Future policy table Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Base Base salaries are set to Salaries are reviewed annually Annual salary increases would None salary be sufficient to attract taking account of: normally be in line with the average and retain the calibre increases for employees in other the salary review across the of executive talent appropriate parts of the Group.
Group: needed to support the On occasion, increases may be trading circumstances: longterm interests of larger where the Committee the business.
personal performance, considers this to be necessary.
including against agreed Circumstances where this may objectives: and apply include growth into a role, market data for an to reflect a change in scope of role appropriate comparator and responsibilities, where market group of companies.
conditions indicate a level of  and the Committee judges that there is a risk in relation to attracting or retaining executives.
Where the Committee exercises its discretion to award increases above the average for other employees, it will do so in accordance with policies applying across the Group and the resulting salary will not exceed the competitive market range.
Benefits Benefits are intended Executive directors are In 2016 17 the benefits received by None to be competitive in entitled to benefits relating the executive directors amounted the market so as to to car, healthcare personal to between 2.8% and 5.4% of assist the recruitment insurances.
We do not anticipate that and retention of the maximum payable would In exceptional executives.
However, the circumstances, such as the Committee may provide benefits relocation of a director, or above this level in certain situations for a new hire, additional where it deems it necessary.
This benefits may be provided may include, for example, the in the form of a relocation appointment of a director based allowance and benefits overseas or a significant increase including tax equalisation, in the cost of the benefits.
re-imbursement of expenses for temporary accommodation, travel and legal financial assistance.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 81 Governance Governance Remuneration policy report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Annual To provide a direct link Targets for measures set at 167% of base salary up to 50% Awards are payable based on three Incentive between annual the beginning of the of maximum paid in cash and weighted areas covering underlying Scheme performance and financial year.
up to 50% of maximum paid in profit performance, individual reward.
strategic objectives and performance Cash awards paid following against selected team and customer To incentivise the the end of the financial year.
related measures from the WINcard achievement of Deferred shares awarded the Groups balanced scorecard.
outstanding results following the end of the Performance measures under each across appropriate key financial year and, under area are determined annually and the stakeholder measures.
normal circumstances, Committee retains the discretion to To align with the released three years after adjust the weighting of the areas longterm interests of the date of award.
annually based on prevailing business shareholders and help Malus provisions apply to needs.
However, the underlying profit participants build a unvested deferred shares performance will represent no less significant stake in the and clawback provisions than 50% of total award at any time.
business over time, by apply to cash awards Other measures will be objective awarding a material in the event of a material and, when possible, externally part of the annual misstatement of results.
benchmarked leading indicators incentive in deferred of future financial performance.
Normally around 25% of the maximum incentive is paid for threshold performance, with around 50% paid for on target performance and the full incentive payment being paid for delivering stretch performance.
These vesting levels may vary from year to year.
For 2017 18, the weighting of theannual incentive award will be based on 50% underlying profit performance, 25% on individual strategic objectives and 25% Customer Heartbeat Winning Teams measures from the WINcard.
Long Term To align the interests Awards made annually Annual awards to a maximum Vesting is based on equally weighted Incentive of senior executives in shares.
and independently measured 3-year Plan closely with sustainable EPS and ROCE performance.
For Awards vest after three longterm shareholder threshold performance, 20% of the years subject to value creation.
award will vest: for maximum performance conditions.
performance, 100% of the award will To focus rewards on Twoyear holding period vest.
The Committee retains the both the sustained post-vesting.
discretion to introduce additional delivery of absolute Dividend equivalents may measures or adjust the weighting of longterm earnings be provided on vested performance measures in the future growth and the shares during a holding based on prevailing business needs.
efficient use of capital period.
Any material changes will be discussed over the long term.
Subject to clawback and with shareholders in advance.
To retain and motivate malus provisions.
executives over the performance period of the awards and beyond.
Sharesave To encourage Annual invitation to all Consistent with prevailing HMRC None Scheme long-term employees, including the limits, currently savings limited to shareholding in executive directors 500 per month.
the Company Option price calculated by reference to the market price discounted by 20% on the invitation date.
Options granted over a three and or five-year period.
Pension Pension benefits Executive directors are 27.5% of base salary up to 25% for None are provided in order entitled to participate in new joiners.
to offer a market the Companys pension competitive scheme or other pension remuneration package arrangements relevant to that is sufficient to their location if based attract and retain overseas.
Can elect for cash in lieu of pension contributions.
If cash is taken, the amount is reduced by the value of the employers national insurance liability.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 82 Governance Illustration of application of remuneration policy The graphs below show how the remuneration policy will be applied in 2017 18, with details of expected remuneration levels foreach director for below threshold performance, for ontarget performance and for maximum performance.
Executive directors potential value of 2017 18 package Alison Brittain Nicholas Cadbury Below Below threshold threshold On target On target Maximum Maximum 7% m m Louise Smalley Fixed elements Salary Below Pension threshold Variable elements LTIP Deferred shares On target Cash incentive payment Ontarget performance assumes ontarget profit, a good Maximum performance on individual strategic objectives, green WINcard scores and threshold vesting under the LTIP.
Maximum performance assumes maximum profit, stretch performance on individual strategic objectives, excel WINcard scores and maximum LTIP vesting.
In both cases, for simplicity, no share price growth is assumed.
Taxable benets are not included.
m Performance measures performance in the first year There are three types of measure used With the exception of base salary, is measured against the three to determine the level of awards under benefits, pension and participation performance areas to determine the scheme.
There is a profit measure, in the Sharesave scheme, all other the level of awards: a number of WINcard measures or elements of the remuneration packages other stakeholder measures as may be measures are set by the Remuneration of the executive directors are linked deemed appropriate by the Committee Committee so that ontarget to performance.
and some personal strategic objectives.
performance is challenging: The strategic individual objectives will Annual Incentive Scheme at the end of the first year, cash be quantitative measures linked to The Annual Incentive Scheme has been payments are made and any deferred individual responsibilities in the context designed to incentivise outstanding shares are awarded as appropriate: of our strategic objectives, and will be performance across a number of key reviewed in advance by the Committee.
there is a threeyear deferral period stakeholder measures and it rewards Targets are set taking into account the for the deferred shares before they approximately 90 executives with business plan, and the link between vest to the executive: and both a cash payment and an award of targets and the Groups strategy can deferred shares.
The scheme operates malus provisions apply to the deferred be seen on page 80. over a fouryear period as follows: share awards in the event of a material misstatement of results, with clawback provisions applying to cash awards.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 83 Governance Governance Remuneration policy report continued Long Term Incentive Plan The dates of the executive directors prorated cash award would be made For the LTIP, the performance conditions service contracts, which can be for the incentive year.
No new deferred will be structured as follows: found on the Companys website shares would be awarded and the www.
co. uk global director would receive a prorated 50% of maximum awards are download-centre corporatecash payment in lieu of the deferred dependent on EPS growth over the governance.
html, are as follows: shares.
Notwithstanding the above, the threeyear performance period: Committee has the discretion to make a Alison Brittain 21 May 2015 50% of maximum awards are deferred shares award for the incentive Nicholas Cadbury 3 September 2012 dependent on ROCE performance year, with such award due to vest at the Louise Smalley 25 October 2012 achieved in the final year of the same time as the awards made to performance period: continuing employees for that year.
The executive directors are entitled to retain fees from external directorships.
awards will be subject to clawback If a director leaves the Company for any and malus provisions, applying in other reason, 25% of an outstanding Policy on payment for loss of office circumstances such as a material award of deferred shares would vest if Base salary and contractual benefits misstatement of results: and the leaving date was between one and All of the executive directors have a two years from the date of grant and a twoyear post-vesting holding rolling service contract with a 12month 50% of an outstanding award would period will apply.
notice period from the Company.
The vest if the leaving date was between two Company may make a payment in lieu These performance conditions were and three years from the date of grant.
of notice to include up to 12 monthly selected because the Committee Any other unvested deferred shares payments of base salary and the cash believes that they closely align the LTIP would lapse on the date of leaving.
The equivalent of pension contributions.
with the strategic aims of the Group: to director would receive no cash incentive The Company may either allow for grow its leading brands whilst delivering payment for the financial year in which contractual benefits to continue during returns in excess of the cost of capital in they leave and no deferred shares would this time or, at its sole discretion, pay order to create significant shareholder be awarded.
the value of those benefits on a monthly value.
The performance targets for In the event that a director was to basis.
Neither notice nor payment in lieu awards to be made in future years will leave the Company by reason of gross of notice would be given if a director left be determined by the Remuneration misconduct, or in circumstances in by reason of gross misconduct.
Committee at the time each award is which the reputation of the Company made taking account of available A director is under a contractual duty is materially damaged, the malus information at that time, including to mitigate his or her position by actively provisions may be applied, in which internal budget forecasts, external seeking an alternative remunerated case, no deferred shares would vest.
expectations and market practice, position and the Company will make and the need to ensure that targets Long Term Incentive Plan a corresponding reduction in any remain motivational.
If a director leaves the Company for payment made for loss of office.
a permitted reason under the rules of Where a payment in lieu of notice is not Changes to the remuneration policy the plan or if the Committee decides applicable, the payment of salary and in 2016 17 to apply good leaver status in contractual benefits would cease on the With the exception of the changes to accordance with the discretion outlined individuals leaving date.
the Annual Incentive Scheme and the on page 86 of this report, the default LTIP, which are outlined on pages 79 and The Committee reserves the right to position would be that any unvested 80 and will form part of the policy to be make any other payments in connection LTIP awards would be prorated for time put to shareholders for approval at the with a directors cessation of office or served.
Performance would be tested AGM in June, no significant changes employment where the payments are at the end of the standard threeyear to the remuneration policy have been made in good faith in discharge of performance period and the prorated made during the year.
Other minor an existing legal obligation or by awards would vest at the same time as changes have been made in order to way of damages for breach of such an for continuing employees.
No LTIP provide greater clarity and to improve obligation or by way of settlement of award would be made in the final year the operation of the policy.
any claim arising in connection with of employment if the Company was the cessation of a directors office or Service contracts and external aware that the director would be leaving employment.
Any such payments may appointments at the point that awards are made.
include but are not limited to paying any The key terms of the executive directors If a director leaves the Company for any fees for outplacement assistance and or service contracts are as follows: other reason, any unvested LTIP awards the directors legal and or professional notice period six months by the would lapse at the date of leaving.
advice fees in connection with his director and 12 months by the Vested, but unexercised, LTIP awards cessation of office or employment.
Company: including those subject to a holding Annual Incentive Scheme period would be exercisable for the termination payment see policy on If a director leaves the Company for a latter of six months from the date of payment for loss of office below: permitted reason under the rules of the leaving or six months from the end sickness full salary for a maximum of scheme or if the Committee decides to of the holding period.
12 months in any threeyear period or apply good leaver status in accordance In the event that a director was to for a maximum of nine consecutive with the discretion outlined on page 86 leave the Company by reason of gross months: and of this report, the default position misconduct or in circumstances in would be that deferred shares would noncompete for six months after which the reputation of the Company is vest on the date of leaving and a leaving.
materially damaged, the clawback and or malus provisions may be applied.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 84 Governance Approach to remuneration Service contracts will be entered Approximately 2,600 employees are on recruitment into on terms similar to those for the entitled to participate in the Groups Our approach to recruitment is that existing executive directors, summarised private healthcare scheme, with 1,100 of remuneration should be set in line with in our service contract policy section.
these, including the executive directors, the policy table on pages 81 and 82.
However, if necessary the Committee entitled to family cover.
In addition, Whilst we would not seek to vary this would authorise the payment of a a small number of senior executives, approach there may be circumstances relocation allowance and repatriation, including the executive directors, are in which it is necessary to do so.
as well as other associated international entitled to annual health screening.
mobility terms or agree terms On the appointment of a new executive All employees receive discounts on appropriate to the local market for director, base salary levels will be set Company products, but the directors a director based overseas.
taking into account a range of factors have waived their right to this benefit.
including experience and expertise, With respect to the appointment Employees, including the executive internal salaries, market levels and cost.
of a new Chairman or nonexecutive directors, have access to subsidised If an individual is appointed on a base director, the approach will be consistent restaurants within the Companys salary below the market positioning with that currently adopted.
Variable offices in Dunstable and Luton and contingent on individual performance, pay will not be considered and as such to free Costa coffee within the the Committee retains the discretion to no maximum applies.
With respect to Companys offices.
realign base salary over the onetothree nonexecutive directors, fees will be Whitbreads Sharesave scheme is years following appointment which may consistent with policy at the time of a standard HMRC approved SAYE result in a higher than normal rate of appointment.
If necessary, to secure scheme.
It is offered to all UK annualised increase, with any such the appointment of a new Chairman employees, including the executive increase aligned to internal policies.
If not based in the UK, payments relating directors, on equal terms.
The Company the Committee intends to rely on this to relocation and or housing could has shareholder approval to extend discretion, it will be noted in the first be considered.
its share schemes overseas and the directors remuneration report following A timely announcement with respect Remuneration Committee retains an individuals appointment.
to any director appointment will be the discretion to establish a Sharesave made to the regulatory news services scheme outside of the UK in the future.
Other elements of annual remuneration and posted on Whitbreads website.
will be set in line with the policy set out Annual Incentive Scheme in the policy table.
As such, variable Comparison of executive remuneration Approximately 6,250 employees are remuneration will be capped at 167% policy with wider employee population eligible to receive an annual incentive of salary under the Annual Incentive This section of the report describes payment linked to the achievement of Scheme and an award of up to 200% each element of the executive profit and WINcard targets.
The majority of salary under the Long Term Incentive remuneration package and explains of participants are entitled to earn Plan.
The following exceptions will apply: the extent to which those elements a maximum annual incentive payment in the event that an internal are made available to the wider of 10% of salary paid in cash.
As appointment is made, the Committee employee population.
The Committee employees progress into more senior retains the discretion to continue with consulted with employees in relevant roles, the maximum payment that can existing remuneration provisions roles when developing the directors be achieved rises to 40%.
Approximately relating to pension and benefits: remuneration policy.
90 executives, including the executive directors, are entitled to participate as deemed necessary and appropriate Base salary in the Annual Incentive Scheme, with to secure an appointment, the All employees, including the executive maximum payouts split between Committee retains the discretion directors, receive an annual review cash and deferred shares, ranging to make additional payments linked of base salary.
to relocation: and circumstances the annual increase Approximately 200 employees, in salary for an executive director will the Committee may also make an including the executive directors, are be in the same range as the increase additional award of cash or shares on given individual strategic objectives for employees across the Group.
appointment of a new director in in addition to the profit and WINcard order to compensate for the forfeiture Benefits targets mentioned above.
of an award from a previous employer.
Approximately 1,000 employees across Such awards would be on a the Group are entitled to a company car Long Term Incentive Plan comparable basis, taking account of or cash in lieu of a company car.
The Approximately 50 executives, including performance, the proportion of the scheme is structured so that the level the executive directors, participate in performance period remaining and of the allowance is on a sliding scale with the LTIP.
This scheme is not available the type of award.
The Committee employees on higher grades receiving a to the wider employee population, will normally set appropriate larger allowance.
The executive directors although the Sharesave scheme performance conditions and vesting are no longer entitled to a company car provides employees with a form would generally be over a similar under this scheme, but are entitled to of long-term incentive.
The receive cash in lieu of a car.
Committee would take into account the strategy at Whitbread and may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Whitbread to a preagreed level prior to vesting.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 85 Governance Governance Remuneration policy report continued Pension For these purposes payments includes The Committee sets the performance Like all employees, the executive the Committee satisfying awards of targets for the LTIP and the Annual directors are entitled to participate variable remuneration and, in relation to Incentive Scheme on an annual in the Companys pension scheme.
an award over shares, the terms of the basis.
The Committee may change a The scheme is a defined contribution payment are agreed at the time the performance target from time to time scheme.
The levels of contribution from award is granted.
in the event that it considers it fair and the Company vary depending on the job reasonable to do so.
Any change to an Remuneration Committee discretion grade of the individual, with employees existing performance target must not The Remuneration Committee retains at the entry level able to choose a 5% have the effect, in the opinion of the the discretion to apply good leaver contribution level, of which 2% is paid by Committee, of making the target terms to leavers in respect of both the the employee and 3% by the Company.
materially easier or materially more Annual Incentive Scheme and the Contribution level choices rise with difficult to achieve than it was when LTIP.
In exercising its discretion, the seniority.
Approximately 45 executives the award was initially granted.
Committee must consider the individual receive between 15% and 20% of basic circumstances in the particular case and The Chairman and nonexecutive salary from the Company, which can be must not exercise its discretion in a directors fees allocated to pension or taken as cash.
way which would be discriminatory on Although the fees paid to the Employees who do not choose to grounds of sex, race, age or any other nonexecutive directors are not a matter participate may be automatically protected characteristic within the for the Remuneration Committee, details enrolled with contributions in line with meaning of Section 4 of the Equality are provided in this report in order to the automatic enrolment regulations.
The Chairman The policy on pension contributions for receives an annual fee and the The Committee must also, so far as it executive directors is that there is an nonexecutive directors receive a base is able to do so, exercise its discretion upper limit for Company contributions fee, with additional fees for acting as in a way which is consistent as between of 27.5% of salary.
In 2013, the upper limit theSenior Independent Director or individuals who are in the same position.
for new joiners was reduced to 25%.
This forchairing, or being a member of, the contribution can be allocated to pension, Audit or Remuneration Committees.
Under the rules of the Annual Incentive or taken as cash.
Scheme, if good leaver terms apply, any The fees are reviewed every two years deferred share awards vest in full on the by the executive directors taking into Consideration of shareholder views date of leaving and may be exercised account a range of factors including We contacted our twenty largest within six months.
Under the rules of the the time commitment required of the investors, as well as Glass Lewis, ISS and LTIP, the award would vest subject to the directors, the responsibilities of the the Investment Association, in October satisfaction of performance conditions, role and the fees paid by other 2016 to consult on proposed changes at the end of the performance period.
A further The number of shares vesting would be consultation was carried out in February on a prorata basis taking account of the The Chairman and nonexecutive 2017 in relation to the proposed LTIP proportion of the performance period directors are entitled to claim all targets for the 2017 awards.
that the individual had been employed reasonable expenses, and the Company The responses received to both within the Group.
The vested award may settle any tax incurred, but do not consultations were broadly positive and would be exercisable for a period of receive any other fees or remuneration in supportive and, as a result, no changes six months from the date on which connection with their roles at Whitbread.
were made to the original proposals the award is declared to be vested.
Neither the Chairman nor any of the although, as a result of shareholders On occasions where the Committee nonexecutive directors has a service feedback, we have improved our exercises this discretion the participant contract.
Non-executive directors have disclosure of targets.
would be expected to continue to meet letters of appointment setting out their the shareholding requirement until the duties and the time commitment Legacy matters award vests and failure to do so would expected of them.
Appointments are The Committee reserves the right to result in the lapsing of the award.
No for an initial term of three years after make any remuneration payments and LTIP grants will be made within the which they are reviewed and their or payments for loss of office including last 12 months of employment to any appointment can be terminated by exercising any discretions available to employee who has requested, and either party on three-months written it in connection with such payments been granted, good leaver status.
Non-executive directors have notwithstanding that they are not in line no entitlement to compensation on with the policy set out above where the In addition, the Remuneration termination.
All directors submit terms of the payment were agreed i Committee has a number of discretions themselves for re-election annually.
before 17 June 2014 the date the relating to the appointment of new The letters of appointment are available Companys first shareholder-approved directors as outlined on page 85. for shareholders to view at the directors remuneration policy came In exceptional circumstances, the Companys registered office.
into effect : ii before the policy set Remuneration Committee has the out above came into effect, provided discretion to amend the profit range that the terms of the payment were normally between 95% and 110% of consistent with the shareholdertarget as well as the split between approved directors remuneration policy the awards based on profit measures, in force at the time they were agreed: individual strategic objectives and other or iii at a time when the relevant stakeholder measures, and the split individual was not a director of the between awards paid in cash and Company and, in the opinion of the deferred shares, for a new incentive year Committee, the payment was not under the Annual Incentive Scheme.
in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 86 Governance Annual report on remuneration Remuneration Committee membership Meetings attended and Name of director eligible to attend 1 Deanna Oppenheimer Chair 2 2 Richard Baker 7 7 2 Wendy Becker 5 5 Sir Ian Cheshire 7 7 Stephen Williams 7 7 1 Deanna Oppenheimer joined the Committee on 1 January 2017.
2 Wendy Becker stepped down from the Committee on 31 December 2016.
Key duties Full terms of reference are available on the Companys website and a summary of the key duties is set out below.
Remuneration Committee key duties Set the broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors.
Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total individual remuneration package including incentive payments, share awards and other benefits of the Chairman and each executive director.
Monitor the structure and level of remuneration of Executive Committee members.
Approve the design of, and determine the targets for, incentive schemes.
Approve awards to be made to executive directors and other senior executives under incentive schemes.
Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
Remuneration Committee advisers Internal advisers Chris Vaughan General Counsel Ruth Hutchison Group Reward Director External advisers Willis Towers Watson, one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, was appointed remuneration consultant by the Committee following a rigorous tender process and adheres to this code in its dealings with the Committee.
Separate parts of Willis Towers Watson provide investment advice and actuarial services in relation to the pension fund and insurance broking services to the Group.
Fees paid to Willis Towers Watson in respect of advice received by the Committee amounted to 149,000.
These fees were charged on a time and material basis.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received is independent and objective.
Remuneration Committee agenda 2016 17 Approval of Annual Incentive Scheme and targets for Approval of the 2016 remuneration report.
Approval of updated terms of reference.
Approval of awards of cash and deferred shares to executive Review of remuneration policy.
directors under the Annual Incentive Scheme.
Shareholder consultations on revised policy and Executive directors salary review.
Confirmation of the performance conditions for the 2016 LTIP awards.
Confirmation of the vesting percentages for the LTIP award made in 2013 and vesting in 2016.
These prices are disclosed on page 92.
2 Fees for part of the year Details of each of the elements included in the table above are as follows: Base salary Annual salary increases across the Group are effective from 1 May each year.
The base salary numbers shown in the table therefore include two months pay based on the directors salary from 1 May 2015 and ten months pay based on the directors salary from 1 May 2016.
Christopher Rogers basic salary is shown up to his leaving date.
Alison Brittains basic salary for 2015 16 was from the date of her appointment in September 2015.
Benefits The benefits received by each executive director include family private healthcare and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
Annual Incentive Scheme The Annual Incentive Scheme payments shown above include both a cash payment to be made in May 2017 and deferred shares to be issued in April 2017.
The awards were calculated as described below.
Awards based on profit measure The profit target for 2016 17 was 562.5 million and the result was 565.2 million, which was 100.5% of target.
The profit range was between 95% of target at threshold and 110% of target at maximum.
% of salary % of salary in Total % Director incash deferred shares ofsalary Alison Brittain 21.5 40.0 61.5 2015 16 17.1 32.5 49.7 Nicholas Cadbury 21.5 40.0 61.5 2015 16 17.1 32.5 49.7 1 Christopher Rogers 16.3 31.0 47.3 2015 16 19.0 35.8 54.8 Louise Smalley 21.5 40.0 61.5 2015 16 17.1 32.5 49.7 1 Christopher Rogers had a 2016 17 profit target made up of a mixture of Group and Costa profit 20% Group, 80% Costa, which resulted in a lower payout than that for the other executive directors.
The Costa target was 161.7 million.
The profit target for the 2015 16 financial year was 563.2 million and the result was 557.1 million, which was 98.9% of target.
The profit target for 2015 16 excluded the cost of Premier Inn Germany, which was in its first year of start up.
The result was also adjusted for a change in the asset life of freehold property, which was not considered when the target was initially set.
The profit target for Christopher Rogers was a mixture of Group and Costa profit 40% Group, 60% Costa.
The Costa target was 154.3 million.
Awards based on WINcard and leadership succession measures The WINcard targets in 2016 17 were appropriate to the directors role and consisted of Group targets, some of which were a combination of the Costa and Premier Inn & Restaurants measures.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 88 Governance The WINcard incentive results are as shown in the table below: 3 WINcard measure % of salary Winning Teams Team turnover 4.00 1 Health and safety n a Customer Heartbeat Guest recommend 4.50 Profitable Growth Premier Inn total occupancy 1.50 2 Brand expansion 0.00 Like for like sales growth 0.00 Costa total system sales growth 0.75 Force for Good Electricity consumption 3.00 Total Total 2016 17 13.75 1 T he health and safety measure acted as a hurdle.
If the health and safety score had been red, payouts for the other WINcard measures would have been reduced by 20%.
If the score had been amber, a 10% reduction would have applied.
2 The executive directors had a more stretching target of 4,250 rooms for Premier Inn rooms growth, which was not adjusted when the decision to smooth the phasing of room openings was taken and communicated at the Capital Market Day.
As a result the brand expansion measure was red for the purpose of incentive payments to the executive directors, but is amber in the key performance indicators on page 18.
3 These results are those for the current executive directors.
Christopher Rogers had targets relating to Costa.
He received five green scores, which were worth a total of 17.5% of salary, two amber scores, which were worth a total of 3% of salary, and one red score.
More information on the actual targets and outcomes for these measures can be found on pages 16 to 19.
Each executive was also entitled to earn a maximum of 5% of salary based on the achievement of personal leadership succession targets.
The results achieved were such that Alison Brittain will receive 5% of salary and each of the other executive directors will receive 3% of salary based on these measures.
As a result, the awards to be made based on WINcard and leadership succession measures are as follows: % of salary % of salary in Total % Director incash deferred shares ofsalary Alison Brittain 15.0 3.8 18.8 2015 16 12.0 3.0 15.0 Nicholas Cadbury 13.4 3.4 16.8 2015 16 12.0 3.0 15.0 Christopher Rogers 18.8 4.7 23.5 2015 16 12.8 3.2 16.0 Louise Smalley 13.4 3.4 16.8 2015 16 12.0 3.0 15.0 Total awards The split between cash and deferred shares is as follows: Cash value ofdeferred Cash award shares award Total Director 000 000 000 Alison Brittain 290 348 638 2015 16 96 117 214 Nicholas Cadbury 188 234 422 2015 16 144 176 320 Christopher Rogers 62 64 126 2015 16 172 211 384 Louise Smalley 124 155 279 2015 16 101 123 224 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 89 Governance Governance Annual report on remuneration continued The deferred shares will, under normal circumstances, vest on 1 March 2020, subject to continued employment within the Group.
No further performance conditions apply to these awards.
Malus provisions apply to the deferred share awards in the event, for example, of a material misstatement of results with clawback provisions applying to the cash awards.
The share price used to calculate the awards was the average closing price of a Whitbread share for the five business days preceding 1 March 2017 i. e. 3,822.2 pence.
The number of deferred shares awarded to each director will be as follows: Number of deferred Number of deferred shares awarded shares awarded Director 2017 2016 Alison Brittain 9,104 3,074 Nicholas Cadbury 6,128 4,600 Christopher Rogers 1,659 5,533 Louise Smalley 4,051 3,227 Long Term Incentive Plan The amounts shown in the table on page 88 refer to the value of the LTIP awards made in 2014 and vesting in 2017.
The value given for the LTIP awards is based on the average market value over the last quarter of the financial year 3,844.4pence, as the awards will not vest until after the date of this report.
As a result, 76.5% of the shares awarded under the 2014 LTIP will vest.
The awards vesting to the executive directors, each of which are subject to a one-year holding period except for the award vesting to Alison Brittain, which is subject to a two-year holding period are as follows: Number of Number of Director sharesvested 2017 sharesvested 2016 Alison Brittain 22,334 Nicholas Cadbury 10,255 22,106 Louise Smalley 6,688 14,416 Single total figure of remuneration audited information Chairman and nonexecutive directors Senior Independent Fee as Chairman Fee as a member Base fee Director fee of a Board Committee of a Board Committee Total 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Richard Baker 350 350 350 350 1 David Atkins 9 1 10 1 Wendy Becker 48 55 8 10 56 65 Sir Ian Cheshire 57 55 15 10 5 5 77 70 1 Chris Kennedy 57 8 65 1 Simon Melliss 33 55 12 15 45 70 1 Deanna Oppenheimer 9 1 10 Susan Taylor Martin 57 55 5 5 62 60 Stephen Williams 57 55 20 15 77 70 1 Fees for part year.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 90 EPS growth above RPI per annum Governance Pension The percentage of salary or pension allowance received by the executive directors in pension contributions is shown in the table below.
Director % of salary Alison Brittain 25.0 Nicholas Cadbury 25.0 Christopher Rogers 27.5 Louise Smalley 25.0 Executives are able to elect to receive a monthly amount in cash less an amount equal to the employers national insurance contribution in lieu of the pension contribution.
Christopher Rogers and Alison Brittain elected to receive a cash payment, while Nicholas Cadbury and Louise Smalley each receive a pension contribution and a cash supplement representing the balance over and above the annual allowance set by HMRC for pension contributions.
The percentage of salary or pension allowance received by Nicholas Cadbury and Louise Smalley will rise to 27.5% on 1 December 2017 and 1 November 2017 respectively.
This is as a result of grandfathered terms.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information The Committee believes that the shareholding requirements for executives play an important role in the alignment of the interests of executives and shareholders and help to incentivise executives to deliver sustainable longterm performance.
The Chief Executive is required to build and hold a shareholding at least equal to 200% of salary, whilst the other executive directors are expected to reach a holding to the value of 125% of salary and other senior executives 75% of salary.
Until they reach this level, executives are expected to retain 100% of vested awards after the deduction of income tax, national insurance contributions and dealing fees.
In addition, a newly appointed executive director is expected to build a shareholding in the Company in advance of any share awards vesting.
The failure to adhere to these requirements may lead to the executive being excluded from participation in future share scheme awards.
It should be noted that any vested LTIP awards subject to a holding period will not be counted for the purpose of calculating whether an executive has met his or her requirement.
When determining whether a director has met the requirement, both the current market price and the price at the point the shares were acquired will be taken into consideration.
All of the executive directors except for Alison Brittain, who was appointed in September 2015, have already met the requirement.
Alison has invested in excess of 1 million in the Companys shares from her own resources.
Her first share scheme award is partially vested in April 2017, but is subject to a two-year holding period.
During 2014 15, shareholding requirements were introduced for the Chairman and the nonexecutive directors.
They are each required to build a holding to the value of 100% of their annual fee over a threeyear period.
The table below shows the holdings of directors as at 2 March 2017: Counting towards requirement Performance versus requirement Additional awards % of salary Awards not Number of Value based on Value based on Shareholding based on % of salary Awards subject subject to ordinary purchase price market price requirement purchase based on to performance performance 1 2 shares 000 000 % of salary price market price conditions conditions Chairman Richard Baker 15,802 381 607 100 109 174 Executive directors Alison Brittain 20,900 1,029 803 200 129 101 98,950 3,074 Nicholas Cadbury 24,410 1,006 938 125 186 174 40,876 20,792 Christopher Rogers 51,028 2,383 1,962 125 442 364 52,689 32,295 Louise Smalley 41,236 1,531 1,585 125 429 444 28,016 8,802 Nonexecutive directors David Atkins 1,425 56 55 100 99 96 Wendy Becker 6,100 65 235 100 114 411 Sir Ian Cheshire 2,245 107 86 100 188 151 Chris Kennedy 1,500 61 58 100 108 101 Simon Melliss 3,000 41 115 100 73 202 3 Deanna Oppenheimer 1,600 66 62 100 115 108 Susan Taylor Martin 1,490 50 57 100 87 100 Stephen Williams 11,340 182 436 100 319 765 As at date of leaving 1 Includes outstanding LTIP awards for which performance has not yet been tested.
2 Includes unvested unexercised deferred shares under the Annual Incentive Scheme and unexercised LTIP awards for which the performance targets have already been met.
3 Deanna Oppenheimer actually holds 3,200 ADRs in Whitbread PLC, each of which represent 0.5 of a Whitbread ordinary share.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 91 Governance Governance Annual report on remuneration continued There has been no change to the interests in the tables shown on page 91 between the end of the financial year and the date of this report.
The column showing awards not subject to performance conditions does not include the deferred shares issued under the incentive scheme in 2017.
Please see tables below and on the following pages for details of LTIP awards, deferred shares and Sharesave options.
2 Alison Brittain received two LTIP awards on joining the Company, each to the value of 175% of salary.
The performance conditions for the first of these awards are aligned to the awards made to other executives in 2014 and the second of the awards have performance conditions aligned to the awards made to other executives in 2015.
Although the awards were actually made on 11 December 2015, under the rules of the LTIP, the technical date of both awards is 1 March 2015 and the market price at award shown in the table above is therefore the price on 1 March 2015.
The price used to calculate the awards was the average Whitbread share price for the five business days immediately preceding Alisons first day of employment, which was 4645.2 pence.
3 Christopher Rogers stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2016 and left the Company on 1 July 2016.
He exercised his 2013 LTIP award over 24,254 shares on 3 May 2016 at a price of 3865.0 pence per share.
His 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards lapsed when he left the Company.
He now has no LTIP awards outstanding.
LTIP performance conditions past awards Performance metrics 2013 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a onethird multiplier based on ROCE in 2015 16 of 12% to 17.0%.
ROCE also acts as a hurdle and is calculated using an average of the previous 13 months net assets.
2014 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a onethird multiplier based on ROCE in 2016 17 of 13% to 18.0%.
2015 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a onethird multiplier based on ROCE in 2017 18 of 13% to 18.0%.
2016 award Based on underlying basic EPS growth above RPI per annum of 4% to 10% on a sliding scale with a onethird multiplier based on ROCE in 2018 19 of 13% to 18.0%.
LTIP performance conditions future awards Details of the performance conditions for the awards to be made in 2017 can be found on page 98.
2 Under the rules of the Scheme awards cannot vest during a close or prohibited period.
The normal release dates for the 2013 awards would have been 1 March 2016.
However, as this date was during a prohibited period, the 2013 awards actually released on 3 March 2016.
The awards are not subject to performance conditions and will vest in full on the release date subject to the director remaining an employee of Whitbread at that date.
If the director ceases to be an employee of Whitbread prior to the release date by reason of redundancy, retirement, death, injury, ill health, disability or some other reason considered to be appropriate by the Remuneration Committee the awards will be released in full.
If the director ceases to be an employee of Whitbread for any other reason the proportion of award which vests depends upon the year in which the award was made and the date the director ceases to be an employee.
If the director leaves within the first year after an award is made none of the award vests, between the first and second anniversary 25% vests and between the second and third anniversary 50% vests.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 93 Governance Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Share options audited information Executive directors may participate in the Companys Savingsrelated Share Option Scheme the Scheme, which is open to all employees on the same terms.
The exercise periods shown below are the normal exercise periods at the date of grant.
Actual exercise periods are subject to change in accordance with the rules of the Scheme if a director ceases to be employed by the Company.
At 3 March 2016 the directors held the following share options under the Scheme, with the latest exercise date being July 2021.
Savingsrelated share options have a sixmonth exercise period.
Market Monetary price on value of Number Exercise price exercise gain Director of shares pence Exercise date pence 000 1 Louise Smalley 470 1913.6 08 08 2016 3962.0 10 1 Although the exercise is shown as being 8 August 2016, Louise gave instructions to exercise to the administrator prior to the deadline of 31 July 2016, but the process is such that the actual exercises are carried out once every two weeks.
Total shareholder return February March March March February February February March March Whitbread plc FTSE Index The corresponding chart looks at the value over eight years of 100 invested in Whitbread plc on 26 February 2009 compared, on a consistent basis, with that of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 index based on 30 trading day average values.
The FTSE 100 has been selected by the Committee as an appropriate comparator group due to Whitbreads position within the FTSE 100.
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 94 Governance Remuneration Committee discretion During the year, it was announced that Christopher Rogers would step down from the Board on 19 April 2016 and leave the Company on 1 July 2016.
The Committee exercised its discretion, in accordance with the approved policy, to apply partial good leaver terms to Christopher.
A disclosure under Section 403 2B of the Companies Act 2006 was made on the Companys website and the details are as follows: All payments are in line with the Companys stated remuneration policy for a good leaver published in the Annual Report for 2013 14 and approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Salary and benefits Christopher will continue to receive normal salary and benefits, as provided under his service agreement, up to and including 1 July 2016.
Share awards for past and future performance Directors Incentive Scheme: Christopher s deferred shares will vest on their ordinary vesting date, being three years from the date of grant.
He was granted 9,028 deferred shares in 2014 and 8,304 in 2015.
These deferred shares were awarded as a result of performance under incentive schemes in prior years.
He also will be entitled to a cash and deferred share award, subject to performance, for the 2015 16 financial year, to be agreed by the Remuneration Committee in April 2016, and for the part of the 2016 17 financial year for which he is employed, which will be agreed by the Remuneration Committee in 2017.
Any new deferred shares awarded in 2016 or 2017 will not vest until 2019 or 2020 respectively.
LTIP: Unvested awards granted in 2014 and 2015 will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee will determine in April 2016 the level at which the LTIP grant made to Christopher in 2013 24,953 shares will vest.
No further grants will be made to Christopher under the LTIP.
Payments to past directors audited information With the exception of regular pension payments and dividends on Whitbread shares and the exercise of share awards as permitted under the rules of the Annual Incentive Scheme, the LTIP and the Savings-related Share Option Scheme, no other payments were made during the year to past directors.
Chief Executives remuneration The Chief Executives remuneration including base salary, benefits and annual incentive payment decreased by 6.1% in the year, compared with an increase of 5.3% for the Groups employees as a whole.
The following table shows the Chief Executives pay over the last eight years, with details of the percentage of maximum paid out under the Annual Incentive Scheme and the LTIP vesting percentage for each year.
Single total % of figure of maximum remuneration incentive % of LTIP Year Chief Executive 000 achieved award vesting 2016 17 Alison Brittain 2,509 49.8 76.5 2015 16 Alison Brittain 634 38.8 n a Andy Harrison 2,423 38.8 97.2 Combined 3,057 38.8 97.2 2014 15 Andy Harrison 4,554 86.8 100.0 1 2013 14 Andy Harrison 6,374 82.6 100.0 2012 13 Andy Harrison 3,432 74.9 89.8 2011 12 Andy Harrison 1,444 45.6 n a 2010 11 Andy Harrison 534 94.4 n a Alan Parker 2,509 94.4 82.4 Combined 3,043 94.4 82.4 2009 10 Alan Parker 2,634 100.0 75.9 Fees from external directorships The executive directors are entitled to retain fees from external directorships.
Christopher Rogers is a nonexecutive director of Travis Perkins Plc and retained a fee of 8,541 up to the date he stepped down from the Whitbread Board in respect of that directorship.
Louise Smalley is a nonexecutive director of DS Smith Plc and retained a fee of 55,233.
Alison Brittain is a nonexecutive director of Marks and Spencer Plc and retained a fee of 70,000.
Nicholas Cadbury was appointed as a non-executive director of Land Securities Group PLC on 1 January 2017 and retained a fee of 11,667.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 95 Governance Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below compares the change in total expenditure on employee pay during the year to the changes in profit after tax and dividend payments.
4% % profit Dividends Employee after tax costs Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 17 Base salary 800 The executive directors will each receive a salary increase of 2%, which is in the same range as the general increase being given 700 to employees across the Group.
600 The base salaries of the executive directors with effect from 1 May 2017 will be as follows: 500 Base salary at Base salary at 400 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 Director 000 000 300 Alison Brittain 811 795 200 Nicholas Cadbury 551 540 100 Louise Smalley 362 357 0 Benefits The benefits received by each executive director will continue to include family private healthcare and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
Annual Incentive Scheme As explained earlier in the report, some changes have been made to the way in which the Annual Incentive Scheme will operate in 2017 18.
The overall quantum of awards available to the executive directors has not changed and remains at 167% of salary at the maximum.
To be eligible to receive incentive payments there are gateway requirements relating to both performance and leadership behaviour.
Any incentive payments will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee in the event that either profit performance is below 90% of target or the health and safety score is red on the WINcard.
The expectation is that our leaders actions reflect Whitbreads values and code of conduct, including our approach to health and safety.
Keeping our team and customers safe is not an incentive lever but a core responsibility that earns the right to earn further incentivised rewards.
In 2017 18, half of the total incentive available will be based on performance against a Group underlying profit before tax target.
As explained on page 18, this profit target is commercially sensitive and, for that reason, is not disclosed in advance.
The Committee intends to disclose the target retrospectively in the 2017 18 report.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 96 Governance Profit performance % of salary Cash Threshold Total Deferred shares On-target Total Stretch Total maximum Each executive director will be able to earn up to an additional 25% of the maximum based on WINcard measures.
One measure will be operational team retention and the other will be a combination of Customer Heartbeat measures, made up of Premier Inn brand health, Costa net recommend and Restaurants net recommend.
Only half of the maximum available in respect of these measures will be available for a green WINcard score, with 75% of maximum payout available for achieving a stretch target beyond green and maximum payout requiring a new excel level, to be achieved.
Each executive director also has three personal strategic objectives.
They will be eligible to receive up to 25% of the maximum incentive opportunity based on the delivery of these objectives.
Each objective will carry an equal weighting within that and achievement of the approved objective outcomes have been aligned to a payment level that would be recognised as stretch performance.
The objectives are quantifiable and linked to the business plan and future financial performance.
The table below 0 20 40 60 80 100 shows a summary of the personal strategic objectives for each of the executive directors, together with details on which of the three strategic priorities see pages 8 to 13 each objective is linked to: Strategic Priority Alison Brittain 1 Objective 1: Growth in Premier Inn rooms, Costa stores and Costa Express machines and like for like sales growth.
2 Objective 2: Growth in German hotel pipeline and progress in Costa China.
3 Objective 3: Achieve the in-year efficiency plan.
Nicholas Cadbury 3 Objective 1: Successful launch of new financial controls framework system.
Objective 2: Delivery of improvements to Whitbreads IT infrastructure.
3 3 Objective 3: Achieve the in-year efficiency plan.
Louise Smalley Objective 1: Effective workforce planning for greater macro uncertainty.
1 3 Objective 2: Delivery of HR technology transformation.
Cash awards will be made in May 2018, with deferred equity issued in April 2018 and due to vest on 1 March 2021, with no further performance conditions applying.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 97 Governance Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Long Term Incentive Plan The awards to be made in 2017 will be based on 200% of base salary for Alison Brittain and 125% of base salary for the other executive directors, calculated by reference to the average of the closing price of a Whitbread share for the five business days preceding 1 March 2017 i. e. 3,822.2 pence.
They will vest in April 2020, subject to the directors continued employment within the Group and satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The awards will be subject to a twoyear holding period post vesting.
The 2017 awards to the executive directors will be made following the AGM in June 2017.
In the event that the updated policy is approved, the awards will be subject to two independently operating performance conditions.
50% of each award will be dependent on the Group ROCE in 2019 20, with the threshold being 13% and maximum payout at 18%, with a sliding scale operating in between.
A further 50% of each award will be linked to an EPS growth target operating on a sliding scale between 4% per annum at threshold to 10% per annum at maximum.
The number of shares awarded under the LTIP to each director will be as follows: Value of Number of award Director sharesawarded 000 Alison Brittain 41,599 1,590 Nicholas Cadbury 17,659 675 Louise Smalley 11,675 446 Nonexecutive directors fees The base annual fee for nonexecutive directors is 57,000.
The fees for the chairmanship of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee are 20,000.
The fee for the Senior Independent Director is 15,000 and the fees for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are 5,000.
Statement of shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting in 2016 the advisory resolution to approve the annual report on remuneration was passed.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 98
