Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chair annual statement The Companys core principles of Our remit remuneration are to support: Remuneration Reviewing the broad remuneration Sustainable long-term value creation.
policy for the senior executives.
Profitable growth and strong cash Committee Recommending and monitoring the generation.
level and structure of remuneration Attraction, retention and motivation of for senior management.
a talented leadership cadre to deliver Governing all share schemes.
Reviewing any major changes inemployee benefit structures All Committee members are independent throughout the Company or Group.
Time spent on matters Attendance 1 Remuneration Policy 40% We held five meetings during the year.
2 Senior Management remuneration 40% 3 Share schemes 15% Member Attendance 4 Employee benefit structures 5% Gareth Williams Chair 5 Philip Green 4 4 Ray King 5 3 Bridget McIntyre 5 Dear Shareholder, Orna NiChionna 4 1 This year, the business has made significant progress with our key The Committee receives assistance from strategic initiatives whilst delivering the Group HR Director and Company 2 another robust financial performance.
Secretary, who attend meetings by The strength of our core businesses invitation, except when issues relating and our operating model has again totheir own remuneration are being led to strong cash generation, enabling discussed.
The Group Chief Executive us to reduce further our debt ratio and Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer Our terms of reference giving us the confidence to increase andthe Chairman attend by invitation.
Our terms of reference were reviewed our dividends offered to 8.5p.
bythe Committee and subsequently Structure of the report Our strategy remains focused on approved by the Board on 20 September Annual Statement pages 67-69. becoming an even more customer 2016.
They are available on our website, Directors Remuneration Report driven business, growing our core http: corporate.
co. uk corporateataglance pages 70-71. insurance and travel businesses, information corporate-governance and Annual Report on Remuneration investing in future growth, maintaining from the Company Secretary at Sagas pages 72-89. our operating model to generate registered office.
strong cash flows and robust earnings and investing in our people.
The Remuneration Committee continues to review the Policy on an ongoing basis and is comfortable that it remains appropriate and effective heading into the 2017 18 financial year.
This report lays out the core principles of our Directors Remuneration Policy and our practice over the past year.
I trust we have done this with the transparency and clarity that aid your understanding of both our intent and our activity.
Gareth Williams Chair, Remuneration Committee ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 67 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chair annual statement continued Company highlights for the 2016 17 Changes to our Remuneration management to pursue a more Policy during the year ambitious outcome which recognises financial year The implementation of our strategy No changes to the Policy approved at the strategic shift the business is our 2015 AGM are being proposed making in how it is growing profit.
asoutlined on pages 12-13 has been substantiated through the key attheGroups next AGM.
Consequently, we have: introduced a second Organic EPS performance highlights of the year: What we have done during the year measure linked to organic profit We reviewed the key components of growth.
The performance range Continued strong performance remuneration.
forthe LTIP award will be 12-21%.
inthe core business areas of retained the existing Basic EPS insurance and travel, which has Decisions made actions taken measure with the existing range ledto strong results across all Made grants in May 2016 under the of5-12%.
Saga Long Term Incentive Plan 'LTIP' retained the existing TSR measure Group profit before tax for the Executive Committee and and target architecture.
fromcontinuing operations senior management of the Company.
rebalanced the proportions of the increasedby9.7% to 193.3m Grant levels were consistent with our total award to 30% Basic EPS, 2016: 176.2m, on revenue of normal award policy.
Approved the award of free shares to Further details of these changes Underlying profit before tax profit all eligible employees in July 2016. canbe found on pages 78-79. before tax excluding derivatives and Approved base salary increases of Reviewed and approved the 2016 17 the Odgen impact, the measure of 2%, in line with the average rises to all bonus outcomes, both financial profit performance in the annual employees, for the Group Chief metrics and personal objectives, bonus for management, grew by Executive Officer and the Group Chief forthe Executive Directors.
Financial Officer, bringing their salaries One of the most significant Strong profit delivery and continued to 689,785 and 424,483 respectively considerations was the impact of the high levels of cash conversion to apply for the 2017 18 financial year.
Ogden rate adjustment announced on meant the Group continued its Approved the fees for the Chairman, 27 February 2017.
The Remuneration deleveraging with net debt to which will increase by 2% from 1 June Committee gave significant time to Trading EBITDA ratio now 1.9x 2017 to an annual fee of 286,110. considering the impact of the post 2016: 2.3x.
Reviewed the performance targets for year end adjustment on the Groups Dividend payments to our the 2017 LTIP award.
The strategy 2016 17 financial results, which shareholders of 5.0p per share calls for an acceleration in organic included a 4m adjustment to ensure inrespect of 2016 and an interim profit growth profit excluding historic that the full impact of the new rate dividend of 2.7p in respect of 2017, insurance claims performance over isreflected in our 2016 17 claims reflecting our confidence in meeting the next five years.
That growth since liability provisions.
market expectations for the full IPO has been in high single digits.
yearand continuing to deliver Weconsidered it appropriate to modify We decided that the impact of this sustainable profit growth.
the target architecture to incentivise adjustment should not affect the Introduction of the new fundsbonus outcomes for Executive withheld quota share arrangement in motor insurance.
Continued investment in our cruiseships, demonstrating ourcommitment to continued excellence and service to ourcustomers.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 68 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors and the broader incentivised Effectiveness of the Remuneration I hope that you find the information population for the following reasons: Committee contained in this report helpful, The announced Ogden rate An external evaluation of the thoughtful and clear.
I welcome adjustment was well beyond Committees effectiveness took place anyfeedback from the Companys expected parameters.
during the year, as part of the Board shareholders and you can contact me Management had been very prudent effectiveness review for details see atgareth.
co. uk if you in its reserving for a potential page51.
This was completed by haveany questions or comments on adjustment as is evidenced by Independent Audit Limited and thisreport.
I look forward to hearing your therelatively small additional concluded that the Committee is views and will be available to answer any provision that had to be made workingwell, in part reflecting the questions at the Companys AGM, where retrospectively to the 2016 17 effective support it is receiving we will ask our shareholders to approve results.
There has been significant Looking ahead we will keep our work appreciation in the Saga share price under review including assessing the post the Companys announcement scope of our involvement in remuneration of the relatively small profit impact deliberations and how we work with ofthe Ogden rate adjustment.
We will: There is no negative impact on the Gareth Williams Companys ability to pursue its Chair, Remuneration Committee focus on our core principles of stated dividend policy and the final remuneration in the context of our payment for this year represents an evolving and developing business, to 18.1% increase for our shareholders.
This report has been prepared in ensure they remain fit for purpose and Further details on the impact of our accordance with Schedule 8 to The are deployed in all our considerations decision can be found on page 83.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and decisions on remuneration Approved the bonus awards for and Groups Accounts and Reports practice: and personal objectives for Executive Regulations 2008 as amended in review our Remuneration Policy as our Directors and senior management 2013, the provisions of the current current Policy comes to the end ofits following a detailed calibration of Code and the Listing Rules.
We will outcomes against stated targets.
beconducting a full remuneration Fulldetails of these can be found review and will be putting forward onpage 84. therevised policy to a binding Approved final annual bonus payments voteatthe 2018 AGM.
for the Executive Directors, which was 67.5% of their maximum opportunity, equating to 101.2% of salary for the Group Chief Executive Officer and 84.3% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The payouts reflect the strong performance of the Group over the year and reflect 100.1% achievement against the Group PBT target measured as profit before tax excluding derivatives and the Odgen impact and 137.3% achievement against the Group cash flow target.
Full details of the payouts are provided on page 83.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 69
