Strategic Report Governance Financials Directors Remuneration Report INTRODUCTION This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, set out on pages 53 to 54: the Directors Remuneration Policy, set out on pages 56 to 64, and the Annual Report on Remuneration, set out on pages 65 to 71.
The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the policy which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27May 2015, and remains unchanged, other than minor text changes to improve its clarity.
No payment may be paid to a Director or past Director unless it is consistent with the approved policy unless shareholder approval is sought.
The exception to this is if the payment is made pursuant to a contractual obligation that was in force at 27 June 2012 when the new regulations came into force.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the policy has been applied during the financial year being reported on and how it will be applied in the coming year.
This report will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM on 25 May 2017, although the vote is advisory.
This report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section provides Card Factorys Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which was approved and came into effect at the 2015 AGM on 27 May 2015, and remains unchanged, other than minor text changes to improve itsclarity.
Card Factorys policy for Executive Directors remuneration is to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay.
Fixed pay is set by reference to relevant companies to attract, motivate and retain the senior management team and to ensure a fair reward for each role.
Variable pay is set to provide a competitive level of reward that aligns performance with the Groups long-term goals and shareholder interests.
POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, Whilst no maximum level Business and individual To attract and retain with reference to scope of role, of salary has been set by performance are talent by ensuring individual performance, experience, the Remuneration considerations in setting base salaries are market competitiveness of total Committee, Executive base salary competitive in the remuneration with reference to Directors salary increases relevant talent market, companies of a similar size and will normally be in line and to reflect an other retail companies, inflation and with those for the wider executives skills and salary increases across the Group employee population at experience Card Factory Increases will normally be effective 1 May In certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job size or complexity, promotion, recruitment or development of the individual in the role, or a significant misalignment with market the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive Pension Executive Directors are entitled to The maximum permitted None To provide postreceive the same auto enrolment by pensions auto retirement benefits defined contribution pension enrolment legislation arrangements as other employees New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based on market competitive contribution rates.
Karen Hubbard receives a contribution to her personal pension of15,000 pa 56 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Benefits Benefits currently include private Benefits' values vary by To provide Executive medical insurance, life insurance, roleand are reviewed Directors with a income protection, and the periodically relative reasonable level of provision of a car or car allowance tomarket benefits and to ensure overall remuneration is Where appropriate, other benefits It is not practical to provide market competitive may be offered, for example a maximum opportunity for including, but not limited to, benefits, as there may be relocation allowances factors outside of the Companys control which change the cost to the Company eg increases in insurance premiums The cost of providing benefits for the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Variable pay Annual bonus Performance measures and targets Up to 125% of salary Performance is determined To focus executives are set at the start of the financial by the Committee on an ondelivery of year by the Remuneration annual basis by reference year-on-year Committee to financial measures eg financial performance EBITDA and personal At the end of the financial year, the performance The ability to deliver a Remuneration Committee portion of bonuses in determines the extent to which the The annual bonus for shares helps towards targets have been achieved 2017 18 will be based on achieving an EBITDA performance with appropriate balance Awards are normally delivered in a personal performance between year-on-year cash, but the Committee can underpin, as in 2016 17 financial performance decide that some or all of it will see further details in the and longer-term value instead be paid in shares and Annual Report on creation deferred for up to three years.
If Remuneration participants have not met the shareholding requirement, up to For achievement of one third of any bonus will be threshold performance, up mandatorily deferred in shares for to 15% of maximum bonus three years is earned An additional benefit is provided in In determining the bonus cash or shares equal to dividends outcome the Committee that would have been paid over the also takes into account vesting period on awards that vest personal, business unit or Company performance The Committee has discretion to and can reduce bonus reduce the amount of any deferred awards accordingly bonus entitlement, or defer vesting of awards or make them subject to The Committee retains additional conditions, in the event discretion to introduce of, for example, material operational or strategic misstatement, misconduct or measures at the start of reputational damage.
In extreme each year, to ensure cases, the Committee may further alignment with the determine to claw back previous business priorities for the annual bonus payments for up to year.
The weighting on two years post-vesting financial measures will remain at least 80% Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long Term Incentive The Committee has the ability to Up to 175% of salary face Subject to continued Plan 'LTIP' grant annual awards of value at grant employment, awards will To align the interests performance shares or nil-cost vest on achievement of of executives with options financial performance shareholders in measures eg EPS growth, growing the value of Performance is measured over a return measures, the business over the three year period.
Shares are then measured over a threelong term subject to an additional two year year performance period holding period apart from any sold to pay tax, before being released Up to 25% of awards will to participants vest for achievement of threshold performance, An additional benefit is provided in then increase on a straightcash or shares equal to dividends line basis to full vesting for that would have been paid over the achieving stretch vesting period on awards that vest performance The Committee have discretion to Measures used for LTIP reduce unvested long-term awards in 2017 18 will be incentive awards, defer vesting of based on three year EPS awards or make them subject to growth with a returns additional conditions including underpin, as in 2016 17 those awards in a holding period in see further details in the the event of, for example, material Annual Report on misstatement, misconduct or Remuneration reputational damage.
In extreme cases, the Committee may further determine to claw back vested LTIPawards for up to two years post-vesting SAYE A UK tax-qualified scheme under Savings are capped at the None To encourage share which eligible employees prevailing HMRC limit at ownership across the including Executive Directors the time eligible workforce may save up to the maximum employees are invited to monthly savings limit as participate, or such lower determined by prevailing limit as determined by the legislation over a period of three Remuneration Committee or five years They are granted an option to acquire shares at up to a 20% discount to the price on grant.
The number of shares under option is that which can be acquired at that price using the proceeds of the savings Shareholding Requirement to build up and Details of the current None guidelines maintain a beneficial holding of guidelines and Executive To encourage share shares in the Company defined as Director shareholdings are ownership and ensure a % of salary included in the Annual alignment of executive Report on Remuneration interests with those of shareholders 58 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE This Policy is unchanged in substance since approval at the 2015 AGM.
Minor text changes have been made to ensure this Policy report remains clear for the reader along with other minor changes to provide additional clarity.
These include: updates to the Policy table above to reflect 2017 18 incentive performance measures and pension arrangements for Karen Hubbard from her appointment as a Director: updated service contract details on pages 61 and 62 to reflect changes in Board membership and notice periods: and updated scenario charts on page 60 to reflect latest salaries and benefit values.
Equity plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as amended from time to time in accordance with those rules, and within the limits of the Policy.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used in the annual bonus are selected annually to reflect the Companys main strategic objectives for the year.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
The Committee considers carefully the appropriate financial conditions to attach to the annual bonus and the financial targets to attach to long-term incentive awards to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to our strategic objectives: ii mindful of risk management: and iii fair by being suitably stretching whilst realistic.
The Remuneration Committees rationale for the use of specific performance measures is included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee reviews formulaic incentive outcomes and may adjust these within the limits of the relevant plan to ensure alignment of pay with the underlying performance of the business.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to make adjustments to the calculation of shortand long-term performance measures in specific circumstances and within the limits of applicable plan rules.
Such circumstances include: changes in accounting standards, major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, corporate restructurings, mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Differences in remuneration policy operated for other employees The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of the senior management team below the Board is consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
The senior management team generally participate in the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with similar performance measures applied.
The Policy for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other employees reflect the seniority of each role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the Policy for executives as set out above, but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair.
All employees, including the current Executive Directors other than the CEO, who receives an additional contribution to her personal pension of 15,000 pa, are eligible to participate in the same pension scheme as the relevant legislation provides with the same maximum contribution, and permanent employees will be eligible to participate subject to certain eligibility criteria in the UK tax-qualified SAYE scheme on identical terms.
Other In addition to the above elements of remuneration, any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the approval at the 2015 AGM and implementation of the Policy detailed in this report will be honoured, including arrangements put in place prior to an individual becoming a Director.
The Committee also retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders for example, for regulatory, tax, legislative or administrative purposes.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Mid and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities illustrated below are in line with the existing Policy, applied to the base salaries that will be in force on 1 May 2017.
The projected value of LTIP amounts assumes LTIP grants at the maximum level and excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
CFO CEO 29% 28% 43% 26% 31% 43% Maximum 1,249k Maximum 1,857k 54% 26% 20% 51% 29% 20% Mid Mid 977k 675k 100% 100% Minimum 365k Minimum 495k 000s 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 000s 0 400 800 1,200 1,600 2,000 Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions are made: Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Minimum Salary as at 1 May 2017 No annual bonus payable Threshold not achieved 0% Mid On-target annual bonus payable Performance warrants threshold The CEO receives a 50% of maximum vesting 25% of maximum contribution of 15,000 pa Maximum Maximum annual bonus payable Performance warrants full vesting to her personal pension.
The CFO has opted out of the pension scheme Benefits for the most recent financial year 60 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials APPROACH TO REMUNERATION FOR NEW DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Card Factory and its shareholders, and will be mindful not to overpay on recruitment.
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, and remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those outlined in the future Policy table above, as follows: Component Approach Maximum opportunity Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined based n a on the experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities, relevant market data and their current basic salary Pension New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based n a on market competitive contribution rates Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line n a with the Policy which may include but are not limited to the provision of a company car or car allowance, relocation allowances Annual bonus The structure described in the Policy table will apply to new 125% of salary appointees with the relevant maximum being prorated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on 175% of salary similar terms as other executives, as described in the Policytable SAYE New appointees will be invited to participate in the allSavings are capped at the employee SAYE scheme on identical terms as other prevailing HMRC limit at the time eligible employees employees are invited to participate The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The total fair value of any such buy out incentive arrangements will not exceed that of awards forfeited on leaving the previous employer, and time to vesting will be matched.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the approach will be consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above save for buy outs.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Measures used for below Board employees may be different from those used for Executive Directors to tailor incentives to a particular division, role or individual.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the Policy as set out in the table on page 64.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Directors The Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors of no more than 12 months.
The Executive Directors may be put on garden leave during their notice period for up to six months, and the Company can elect to terminate their employment by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benefits including pension contributions.
Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office and at the forthcoming AGM.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Darren Bryant 30 April 2014 9 months Karen Hubbard 5 January 2016 9 months Richard Hayes 30 April 2014 12 months Richard Hayes retired from the Board at the end of June 2016.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee may: settle any claims by or on behalf of the Executive Director in return for making an appropriate payment: and contribute to the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, outplacement services, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
The Companys policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the executives contractual terms, the circumstances of termination and any duty to mitigate.
The table below summarises how incentives are typically treated in different circumstances: Plan Scenario Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Default treatment No bonus is paid n a Death, injury, ill-health or Normal payment date, The Committee will determine disability, retirement, or although the Committee has the bonus outcome based on any other reason the discretion to accelerate circumstances and the date of Committee may determine leaving.
Performance against targets is typically assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be prorated for time served during the year Change of control Ordinarily accrued bonuses Where the Committee will rollover into the new entity, determines that a bonus is however, the Committee has payable, performance against discretion to allow a bonus to targets will be assessed at the be paid immediately on a point of change of control and change of control any resulting bonus will be prorated for time served up to the point of change of control.
If bonus targets are not met, no bonus will be payable Shares deferred as Default treatment Awards lapse n a part of annual bonus Death, injury, ill-health or Normal vesting date, Awards are not prorated disability, retirement, or although the Committee has any other reason the discretion to accelerate Committee may determine Change control Immediately Awards are not prorated LTIP Default treatment Awards lapse n a Death, injury or disability, Normal vesting date, Any outstanding awards will redundancy, retirement, although the Committee has normally be prorated for time the sale of the employing discretion to accelerate and performance conditions company or business out will be measured over the of the Group or any other normal performance period reason as the Committee unless awards are may determine accelerated Change of control Immediately Any outstanding awards will be prorated for time and performance up to the point of the change of control SAYE Treated in line with HMRC rules 62 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were appointed on the dates set out in the table below.
Their letters of appointment set out the terms of their appointment and are available for inspection at the Groups registered office and at the AGM.
Appointments are initially for three years subject to annual re-election at the AGM and unless agreed by the Board, they may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is shorter.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors may resign from their positions but must serve the Board six and one months written notice respectively.
Non-Executive Director Letter of appointment date Geoff Cooper 30 April 2014 Octavia Morley 30 April 2014 David Stead 30 April 2014 Paul McCrudden 1 December 2014 Other than the one-off option grant awarded to the Chairman pre-IPO in May 2014 in connection with his appointment as detailed on page 71 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus or any equity schemes, do not receive any additional pension or benefits on top of the fees disclosed on page 68, and are not entitled to a termination payment.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS IN GROUP The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the executive remuneration Policy, but will keep this policy under review.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidelines of shareholder bodies and shareholders views.
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to undergoing consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee continues to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Committee acknowledges that Executive Directors may be invited to become Independent Non-Executive Directors of other quoted companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these duties can broaden their experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept such appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these would be retained by the Executive Director.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Directors Remuneration Report continued POLICY TABLE FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Non-Executive Annual fee for Chairman and Any increases to NED fees will Performance of the Directors fees Non-Executive Directors be considered as a result of the Board as a whole will To attract Directors with outcome of a review process be reviewed regularly the appropriate skills and Additional fees paid for and taking into account wider as part of a Board experience, and to reflect additional roles or time market factors, eg inflation evaluation process the time commitment in commitment, eg chairing preparing for and Board Committees The maximum aggregate annual attending meetings, fee for all directors provided in theduties and Non-Executive Directors the Companys Articles of responsibilities of the role donot participate in any Association is 1,000,000 pa and the contribution incentive schemes or expected from the receive any other benefits Further details of current fees Non-Executive Directors other than nominal are included in the Annual travel expenses Report on Remuneration 64 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This is the Annual Report on Remuneration for the financial year ended 31 January 2017.
This report sets out how the Policy has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ADVISERS The Remuneration Committee consists of three Independent Non-Executive Directors: Octavia Morley Chairman, David Stead and Paul McCrudden, and the Non-Executive Chairman, Geoff Cooper.
A more detailed explanation of the Remuneration Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 and 43 and a copy of its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, are available on Card Factorys investor relations website www.
The Committee fulfils its duties with a combination of both formal meetings and informal consultation with relevant parties internally and externally.
Its principal external advisers are Kepler, a brand of Mercer, who were appointed by the Committee, and who also provide remuneration advice to the Company.
Kepler, and its parent company Mercer, do not provide any other services to the Company.
Kepler is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be found on the Remuneration Consultants Groups website at www.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received from Kepler is objective and independent.
Fees paid to Kepler for the financial year were 8,285 which were charged on the basis of time and materials.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES During 2016 17, the Committee met to consider the following remuneration matters: to determine 2016 grants of LTIP awards and associated targets: to review current shareholdings of Executive Directors: to authorise payment of annual bonuses in respect of 2015 16 to Executive Directors and members of the senior management team: to agree salary reviews, annual bonus opportunity and annual bonus targets in respect of 2016 17 for the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team: to ratify the terms of the 2017 grant under the all employee save as you earn scheme: to review developing trends in remuneration governance: and to formally approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report.
Richard Hayes retired from the Board at the end of June 2016.
Taxable benefits include: car or car allowance Karen Hubbard: 21,614, Darren Bryant: 8,000 allowance, Richard Hayes 2016 17: 15,395, 2015 16: 25,652 : fuel allowance Richard Hayes, 2016 17: 4,876, 2015 16: 7,977 : and family private medical insurance.
Karen Hubbard and Darren Bryant and formerly Richard Hayes are members of the Group Life Assurance Scheme.
The amounts stated relate to insurance premiums paid by the Group.
Annual bonus paid for performance over the relevant financial year.
Darren Bryants annual bonus will be paid in cash.
In accordance with the Policy, one third of Karen Hubbards bonus payment will be deferred in shares for three years as she has not met the relevant shareholding requirement.
The shares have no vesting conditions and Karen will be entitled to receive them in three years.
Further details on performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards for the financial year ended 31 January 2017 can be found on page 66.
2014 LTIP awards are expected to vest as to 46.6% on or around 20 May 2017, based on 3-year performance to 31 January 2017.
The award for Richard Hayes will be pro-rated to reflect his retirement date.
The value for 2016 17 in the table above has been calculated using the 3-month average share price to 31 January 2017 of 251p: no awards were due to vest during 2015 16.
Embedded value of SAYE options at grant.
There are no performance conditions.
As previously disclosed, as part of her recruitment package, and in order that Karen Hubbard was able to take up her position at a time to allow a suitable handover with the outgoing CEO, the Committee approved a like-for-like buyout of her forfeited bonus, which was assessed to have a fair value of 130,000, with the time of payment matched to that of the forfeited award.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued SALARY During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salary of the CEO who was awarded an increase of 2% in line with increases for the wider workforce.
Given that Darren Bryant has informed the Board that he wishes to retire following the appointment of a successor and an appropriate handover period, his salary has not been reviewed.
The salaries of the Executive Directors are, with effect from 1 May 2017, as follows: Executive Director 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 Karen Hubbard 453,900 445,000 Darren Bryant 353,736 353,736 1 Richard Hayes n a 459,000 1.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION ARRANGEMENTS Darren Bryant opted-out of the auto enrolment pension arrangements and no pension contributions were made for him for the year under review.
From appointment as a Director the CEO has received a contribution to her personal pension of 15,000 pa. For 2017 18, the Executive Directors pension arrangements will be unchanged.
ANNUAL BONUS The Group operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme for a number of the senior management team including Executive Directors.
Bonus opportunities for 2016 17 were 125% of salary pro-rated for time in role for Karen Hubbard and 100% of salary for Darren Bryant.
Richard Hayes did not participate in the 2016 17 annual bonus.
Annual bonus awards granted to Executive Directors in respect of 2016 17 were as follows: 1 Executive Director Bonus Karen Hubbard 104,849 Darren Bryant 70,747 Richard Hayes n a 1.
The awards in respect of 2016 17 were based on EBITDA and subject to a personal performance underpin.
Personal performance is assessed based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy see pages 8 and 9 of the Strategic Report, to ensure the foundations for future growth are laid, as well as delivering in the current year.
The EBITDA performance targets for the year were: Percentage of 2016 17 EBITDA maximum Performance level target bonus awarded Threshold 98.3m 15% Maximum 101.9m 100% For levels of performance between the points set out in the tables, vesting would be determined on a straight-line, pro rata basis.
No bonus is awarded for performance below the threshold.
The range between threshold and maximum has been drawn relatively tightly in line with the relative consistency of business performance.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2017, Card Factory achieved underlying EBITDA of 98.5m.
The Committee assessed the personal performance underpin to have been achieved based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy, and as such, annual bonuses were awarded at 20% of maximum.
ANNUAL BONUS FOR 2017 18 For the financial year ending 31 January 2018, the Committee will operate the annual bonus using the same measures as were used in 2016 17.
The EBITDA targets have been set by the Committee and will require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance.
Given the close link between these targets and Card Factorys competitive strategy, EBITDA targets are considered commercially sensitive but will be published in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The use of an EBITDA performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on strong annual financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its short and long-term strategic goals.
The overall assessment of personal performance, assessed based on balanced achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy, helps ensure that the Executives behaviours support longer-term value creation.
66 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP AUDITED Grants of awards under the LTIP in 2016 Awards under the LTIP were granted to the Executive Directors on 30 September 2016.
Awards were made over shares worth 175% of basic salary for Karen Hubbard and 150% of salary for Darren Bryant.
Awards that vest after any sales required to pay tax and social security contributions will be subject to a 2-year holding period.
Number of LTIP shares Face maximum value of % of award vesting at 1 Executive awarded awards at grant date threshold and Maximum Performance period Karen Hubbard 235,485 778,750 25% 100% 1.2.
Based on the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the six months prior to the date of award, 30 September 2016, of 330.7p.
2016 LTIP vesting schedule 100% 25% 5% pa 10% pa 3-year EPS growth The primary performance targets attached to those awards, based on annual EPS growth over three financial years starting with that in which the award is granted, are illustrated in the chart above.
For the purposes of the LTIP, EPS is adjusted to add back the additional financing expense resulting from the payment of special dividends.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Remuneration Committee needs to be satisfied that the Companys return on capital has been broadly consistent with historic levels.
The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
The Committee believes that a returns underpin appropriately reinforces the need to focus on returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
As disclosed to the market in October 2016, having consulted with shareholders and considered in detail the strategic objectives of the business and the opportunities for growth over the three year performance period, the Remuneration Committee set the EPS performance measures with threshold vesting 25% of maximum award at 5% compound annual EPS growth rate EPS CAGR' 2015: 9% and maximum vesting 100% of award at 10% EPS CAGR 2015: 15%.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Companys return on capital must be consistent with historic levels, reinforcing the focus on returns for shareholders.
The Committee feels these future targets are stretching and balance the need to appropriately incentivise management whilst providing assurance to shareholders that the targets support the long-term profitable growth of the business.
LTIP awards in 2017 For 2017, the Committee intends to grant LTIP awards to Executive Directors in line with the Policy using the same performance measures as were used in 2016.
In accordance with the Policy, the Remuneration Committee will review the corresponding targets ahead of the 2017 grant to ensure they are appropriately stretching over the performance period and deliver strong earnings growth and capital returns, whilst being mindful of the potential cost pressures facing the sector over the three year period.
Awards will be made over shares worth 175% of basic salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO and details of the awards will be set out in next years report and at the time of their grant.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 % of LTIP awards vesting Directors Remuneration Report continued 2014 LTIP awards vesting Awards granted in 2014 under the LTIP were subject to the 3-year EPS compound annual growth targets of 9% pa to 15% pa with 25% vesting at threshold, and were subject to a return on capital underpin.
EPS performance over the 3-year period 1 February 2014 to 31 January 2017 was 10.73% pa implying 46.6% vesting.
The Committee has reviewed return on capital over the same period and is satisfied that vesting of the awards is justified.
As a result, awards will vest on, or as soon as possible after, the third anniversary of the date of grant, 20 May 2017.
Vested awards will be subject to a 2-year holding period although, as previously disclosed and noted below, the Committee disapplied this holding period for Richard Hayes on his retirement in June 2016.
SAYE No SAYE awards were granted to Executive Directors during the year under review.
REMUNERATION FOR RETIRING DIRECTORS Richard Hayes stepped down as CEO in mid-April and retired from the Board at the end of June.
As outlined above, he therefore did not receive an LTIP grant in 2016 nor was he eligible to receive any bonus for performance for the financial year 2016 17.
As a good leaver he will, to the extent that they vest based on performance, receive his outstanding prorated LTIP awards at the normal vesting date.
The Committee has exercised an available discretion for good leavers to disapply any holding period on vested LTIP awards, on the basis that his significant shareholding see table on page 71 will continue to align his interests with that of other shareholders after he leaves the Board.
The Committee did not, however, exercise its available discretion to accelerate the vesting of his awards.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors take into account general economic and market conditions, time commitment and responsibility, and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors in similar positions in comparable UK-listed companies.
Changes are generally effective from 1 May.
No increases were made in the year under review and none are proposed for the current year.
2017 18 2016 17 Base fees Chairman 125,000 125,000 Senior Independent Director 49,000 49,000 Non-Executive Director 45,000 45,000 Additional fees Chair of the Remuneration Committee 8,000 8,000 Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 8,000 8,000 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 January 2017 and the prior year.
PAYMENTS TO PREVIOUS DIRECTORS No payments were made to past Directors in the year other than those disclosed on page 65 in relation to Richard Hayes retirement.
68 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND CEO SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The graph below illustrates the total shareholder return performance of Card Factory against the FTSE 250 over the period since the Group listed on 20 May 2014.
The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Group is a member.
For 2016 17 this represents the aggregate single figure for Karen Hubbard from date of appointment as CEO and Richard Hayes to date of stepping down as CEO.
CHANGE IN CEO CASH REMUNERATION, 2015 16 TO 2016 17 Change in CEO Average change pay over the across all 1 2 year employees Salary 1.9 % 6.56% Taxable benefits 13.6 % Annual variable 76.9 % 26.0 % 1.
Permanent store employees representing c 90% of all permanent employees.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Value of 100 invested at IPO Directors Remuneration Report continued DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT The charts below illustrate the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees and total shareholder distributions.
Total remuneration Total shareholder for all employees distributions 8.5% 2.6% including special dividend 7.1% excluding special dividend m m 100 90 94.6 82.2 80.0 87.2 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 31.1 30 28.9 20 20 10 10 0 0 2015 16 2016 17 Special dividend STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table shows the results of the shareholder votes on the 2015 Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2015 Annual General Meeting and on the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2016 Annual General Meeting: Remuneration Policy 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 2016 Total number of Total number of votes % of votes cast votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 284,523,755 98.32% 282,022,199 99.97% Against 4,872,781 1.68% 82,813 0.03% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 289,396,536 100% 282,105,012 100% 1 Total votes withheld 102,680 9,403 Total votes cast including withheld votes 289,499,216 282,114,415 1.
A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND INTEREST IN SHARES AUDITED The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least 150% of the Executive Directors annual base salary 200% for the CEO.
The Chief Financial Officer currently significantly exceeds this requirement.
The Chief Executive Officer joined the Company on 22 February 2016, and therefore has not yet met the shareholding guideline.
She has purchased shares during the year as set out in the table on page 71, but no awards received by her under the share incentive schemes operated by the Company have vested as at the date of this report.
The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to i retain at least half of vested LTIP shares, after the sale of sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance contributions triggered by the exercise and associated dealing costs : and ii defer one third of any earned net annual bonus into shares for three years, until the guideline level is achieved.
70 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials Shares held Options held Unvested Unvested and Current Shareholding and not Unvested and subject to shareholding requirement subject to subject to Vested but continued % of salary % of salary Guideline 1 2 performance performance not exercised employment fee fee met?
Including shares owned by connected persons.
Calculated using the closing share price of the Company on 31 January 2017 of 250p.
As disclosed elsewhere in this report, the awards for Richard Hayes will be pro-rated to reflect his retirement date.
There have been no changes in the numbers of shares owned by the Directors and their connected persons between the end of the year and the date of this report.
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INCENTIVE PLANS Share Date of price Exercise Number of Face value grant at grant price shares awarded at grant Performance period Exercise period Karen Hubbard 2 LTIP 30.9.
Based on the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the three months prior to the date of award, 1 April 2015, of277.7p.
2014 LTIP awards are expected to vest on 20 May 2017 as to 46.6% of maximum.
As disclosed elsewhere in this report, the 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards for Richard Hayes will be pro-rated to reflect his retirement date.
In connection with his appointment, Geoff Cooper was given the option to invest 330,000 in the Company by means of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or alongside, the offer of shares conducted in conjunction with the IPO at the offer price of 225p per share.
Geoff took up this offer at the time of the IPO and agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary shares and this has entitled him, on each of the second and third anniversaries of the date of the completion of the IPO, to make further investments of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the offer price.
Geoffs entitlement to make such purchases is conditional upon and subject to his remaining as Chairman of the Company on the relevant dates.
It is not intended to offer the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors participation in similar arrangements in the future.
Geoff Cooper exercised 146,666 pre-IPO options on 24 May 2016.
Approved by the Board of Card Factory plc on 27 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2017 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71
