Governance Directors Remuneration Report This Directors' Remuneration Report Report is based Annual Report on the activities of the Committee for the period to 28 January 2017.
It sets out the remuneration The 2016 2017 year delivered outstanding sales and policy and remuneration details for the Executive and earnings growth across the Group.
The LFL performance Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
There are of JD UK has been especially strong reflecting the first three sections: class performance of the Executive Team.
The This Annual Statement: significant earnings improvement and increased shareholder value creation are a credit to the energy The Policy Report setting out the Directors' and successful efforts of the Executive Directors.
The remuneration policy: and continuing expansion and successful performance of The Annual Report on Remuneration providing JD internationally, particularly in Mainland Europe, is details on the remuneration earned in the year to 28 praiseworthy and bodes well for the future.
January 2017 and how the Directors' remuneration policy will be operated for 2017 2018.
This Annual The Executive Team of Senior Managers directly below Report on Remuneration together with the Annual the Board lead outstanding departments and functions Statement and Remuneration Policy will be subject which deliver consistent, professional and exceptional to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
The growth and development of this team is an important element in our confidence in the This report has been prepared in accordance with future.
We have a strong and growing team of highly Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies performing executives.
and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013 Regulations.
The This year has seen JD Sports Fashion Plc move forward Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to dramatically compared with its competitors and the the shareholders on certain parts of the Report and retail market overall.
In a year not without challenges, to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the serious and sustainable progress has been made.
report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the Annual Report on Once again the Annual bonus awards for the Executive Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated Directors reflect this exceptional company performance.
The Senior Managers have also been rewarded appropriately for their outstanding performance and The Committee keeps under review the remuneration their successful results.
The Remuneration Committee policy and specific remuneration packages for the Committee has focused on ensuring that our policies Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
and actions are appropriate for our business in the The Committee is mindful that our Group operates in a current competitive situation and that they balance the highly competitive retail environment and we seek to rewards to our Executive Directors for delivering first ensure that our remuneration policy is appropriate to class financial performance with our medium long attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and term strategic goals to create long term value for our Senior Managers of the right calibre to ensure the shareholders.
success of the Company into the future.
The Committee has determined that it would be appropriate for a new We believe in rewarding our Executives based on their LTIP scheme to be proposed to shareholders at the individual and team performance and on the value 2017 AGM.
In line with prior LTIP schemes, it will grant created for the shareholders.
Our annual bonus scheme cash awards rather than shares, given the current combines financial targets with medium long term shareholder structure, the lack of a large free float and strategic objectives.
A Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP as the Company does not operate a share scheme.
was approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM The Committee believes it is in the best interests of on 26 June 2014, which is based on the achievement the Company to adopt the new LTIP in order to be of earnings based on financial targets over a three able to retain and motivate the Executive Directors, to year period.
A new LTIP is proposed for approval at provide competitive rewards and to incentivise them the 2017 AGM.
to sustain and build long term value in alignment with shareholder interests.
A similar scheme is in place for the Senior Managers.
85 85 85 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of Activity Agreeing bonus awards for the Executive Directors and annual bonus and long term incentive plan for Senior Managers in relation to the period 2016 2017.
Reviewing the basic salary of the Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer to ensure these are appropriate for the market in which we operate.
With effect from 1 April 2017, the Committee has agreed that the basic salary reviews detailed on page 94 will be implemented.
The salary increases equate to a 1.5% increase for the Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer which is in line with the general increase for our Head Office employees.
Reviewing the annual bonus awards for the year to 28 January 2017, which are set out on page 92, and setting appropriate targets for the 2017 18 financial year.
These are based on a combination of financial and non-financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs linked to key strategic objectives which are intended to reward our Executive Directors for performance and provide alignment with shareholder interests.
Consideration of appropriate LTIP arrangements.
The Company is proposing a new cash LTIP for the Executive Directors at the 2017 AGM.
Andrew Leslie Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 April 2017 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Unaudited This Directors' remuneration policy for the financial year ended 28 January 2017 was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 26 June 2014 and has remained in force for a period of three years.
The remuneration policy table was disclosed in full in the 2016 Annual Report which is available to download at www.
The new Directors remuneration policy will take effect, subject to it being approved by shareholders, from the date of the 2017 AGM.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made to Directors if they are consistent with the approved Directors' remuneration policy.
However, commitments made before the Directors' remuneration policy came into effect and commitments made before an individual became a Director will be honoured even if they are inconsistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Future Policy Overview The Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment and the Committee seeks to ensure that the level and form of remuneration is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the right calibre to ensure the success of the Company into the future.
Remuneration should be aligned with the key corporate metrics that drive earnings growth and increased shareholder value with significant emphasis on performance related pay measured over the longer term.
Incentive arrangements for Executive Directors should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related elements and be capable of providing exceptional levels of total payment if outstanding performance is achieved.
Future Remuneration Policy Table Executive Directors Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary To provide competitive fixed level Base salaries for the Executive Directors The policy of the Committee is that Not applicable remuneration to attract and retain are reviewed annually by the Committee.
the salaries of the Executive Directors Executive Directors of the necessary should be reviewed annually, although The following factors are taken into calibre to execute the Groups strategy it reserves the right to review salaries account when determining base and deliver shareholder value.
on a discretionary basis if it believes salary levels: an adjustment is required to reflect Remuneration levels at market rates or performance.
comparable quoted UK There is no prescribed maximum retail companies.
The Committee is The need for salaries to be guided by the general increase for the competitive.
broader employee population but on The performance of the occasion may need to recognise, for individual Executive Director.
example, an increase in the scale, Experience and responsibilities.
scope or responsibility of the role as well as market rates.
Pay for other employees in the Group.
The total remuneration available to the Executive Directors and the components thereof and the cost to the Company.
Benefits To ensure the overall package is Current benefits provision is The Committee determines the Not applicable competitive for Executive Directors.
detailed on page 92. appropriate level taking into account market practice and individual Other benefits may be provided circumstances.
where appropriate including health insurance, life insurance death in service, travel expenses and relocation.
87 87 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Pension To provide post-retirement Payments are made into a defined The rates are set at a Not applicable benefits for Executive Directors.
contribution scheme with company level which the Committee contributions set as a percentage of considers is appropriate.
Current company contribution The Committee has the discretion to rates for Executive Directors pay a cash amount in lieu of a pension are shown on page 92. contribution any such payment would not count for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
Annual Bonus Executive Directors have the The bonus is paid annually in cash 100% of salary, however, the The targets are set by the Committee opportunity to earn performance and is non-pensionable.
Committee has the discretion each year and are based on a related bonuses based on the to award bonuses of up combination of financial and strategic Clawback and Malus provisions apply achievement of financial targets to 200% of salary for KPIs, with target and maximum levels.
The Committee and key performance indicators exceptional performance.
Two thirds of the annual bonus will can use its discretion to reduce, cancel which incentivise the achievement be linked to financial targets.
The or impose further conditions on the of the business strategy.
Committee retains the discretion to awards where it considers such action is adjust the targets in the event of appropriate.
This includes where there significant corporate activity during has been a material misstatement of the the year.
The Committee will review Company's audited financial results, a the Groups overall performance serious failure of risk management before determining final bonus levels.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances amend the bonus payout should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect the overall business performance or individual contribution.
Targets will be disclosed in the following years Annual Report.
Long Term Incentive Plans To provide the Executive Directors We are proposing a new LTIP for 150% to 200% of base salary.
The LTIP will measure financial with the opportunity to earn shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
The level of any awards performance over a 3 year period.
under the LTIP remains Key features of the LTIP are: 25% of any award will vest at under the consideration To align the Executive Directors threshold performance increasing Cash a wards not shares.
interests more closely with those on a straightline basis to 100% for Thr ee year performance period.
The perf ormance condition can be To focus the Executive Directors Targets will be disclosed in the annual amended or substituted if events on sustaining and improving the accounts for the year following a occur which cause the Committee long-term financial performance performance period.
to consider that an amended or of the Company and reward them substituted performance target appropriately for doing so.
Any amended or substituted target would not be materially more or less difficult to satisfy.
Malus pr ovisions apply to unvested awards.
The Committee can use its discretion to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on the awards where it considers such action is appropriate.
This includes where there has been a material misstatement of the Company's audited financial results, a serious failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Element of Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Non-Executive Set at a level which the Cash fee paid.
Additional fees based The policy of the Committee is None Director Fees Committee considers reflects on additional responsibilities, such as that the fees paid to Non-Executive the time commitment and acting as Senior Independent Director Directors should be reviewed contributions that are expected or serving as Chairman of Board annually, although it reserves the from the Non-Executive Directors.
right to review fees on a discretionary basis if it believes an adjustment is Fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
required to reflect market rates, scope The Non-Executive Directors do of responsibilities or performance.
not participate in the Companys There is no prescribed maximum incentive arrangements and no annual increase.
pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Reasonable travel and subsistence expenses may be paid or reimbursed by the Company.
Share Ownership Guidelines If it were necessary to attract the right candidate, The Company does not have a minimum share due consideration would be given to making awards ownership requirement for the Executive Directors.
Given necessary to compensate for forfeited awards in a our narrow shareholder base and taking into account that previous employment.
In making any such award, the the Company does not operate a share scheme, the Committee will take into account any performance Committee considers it impractical to set realistic conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the form shareholding targets.
in which they were granted and the timeframe of the forfeited awards.
The value of any such award will be Consideration of Shareholder Views capped to be no higher on recruitment than the The Committee engages directly with major shareholders forfeited awards and will not be pensionable nor count on key aspects of the remuneration policy and will take for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
into consideration feedback received in relation to the The Committee retains the right to exercise the AGM or otherwise when next reviewing the policy.
discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 where necessary to put in place an arrangement established Consideration of Employee Conditions Elsewhere specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the in the Group recruitment of a new Executive Director.
Where Remuneration arrangements are determined appropriate the Company will offer to pay reasonable throughout the Group based on the same principle relocation expenses for new Executive Directors.
that reward should be achieved for delivery of our business strategy and should be sufficient to attract In respect of an internal promotion to the Board, and retain high calibre talent, without paying more any commitments made before the promotion will than is necessary.
continue to be honoured even if they would otherwise be inconsistent with the Directors' remuneration policy Senior Managers below Board level with a significant prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
ability to influence company results may participate in an annual bonus plan and deferred bonus plan Service Contracts and Payments for Loss of Office which reward both performance and loyalty and are Details of the contracts currently in place for Executive designed to retain and motivate.
Directors are as follows: Approach to Recruitment Remuneration Date of Contract Notice Period Months Unexpired Term In the event that a new Executive Director was P Cowgill 16 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months to be appointed, a remuneration package would be determined consistent with the Directors' B Small 10 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months remuneration policy.
In particular, new Executive Directors will participate in variable remuneration It is the Companys policy that notice periods for arrangements on the same basis as existing Executive Director service contracts are no more than Executive Directors.
In the event that a new 12 months.
Non-Executive Director was to be appointed, the fees payable would be determined in a manner which is consistent with the Directors' remuneration policy.
89 89 89 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued In the event of early termination, the Company may Where cessation of employment is due to death, the make a termination payment not exceeding one years LTIP award will, unless the Committee determine salary and benefits.
Incidental expenses may also be otherwise, vest as soon as reasonably practicable payable where appropriate.
It is in the discretion of the following death.
Where the Executive Director is Committee as to whether departing Directors would be dismissed lawfully without notice, the LTIP award will paid a bonus.
In exercising its discretion on determining lapse on the date of cessation.
the amount payable to an Executive Director on termination of employment, the Board would consider In all other circumstances the LTIP award will lapse on each instance on an individual basis and take into the date of cessation of employment unless the account contractual terms, circumstances of the Committee determines otherwise, in which case it will termination and the commercial interests of the determine the extent to which the unvested LTIP award Company.
When determining whether a bonus or any vest taking into account the extent to which the other payment should be made to a departing Director, performance target is satisfied at the end of the the Committee will ensure that no reward for failure is performance period or, as appropriate, on the date on made.
The Committee may make a payment to a which employment ceases.
The period of time that has departing Director for agreeing to enter into enhanced elapsed since the start of the performance period to restrictive covenants following termination where it the date of cessation of employment will also be taken considers that it is in the best interests of the Company into account unless the Committee determines to do so.
In the event of gross misconduct, the Company may In the event of a change of control, LTIP awards will terminate the service contract of an Executive Director vest at the date of change of control other than in immediately and with no liability to make further respect of an internal reorganisation unless the payments other than in respect of amounts accrued at Committee determines otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors The current Executive Director service contracts permit The Non-Executive Directors have entered into letters the Company to put an Executive Director on garden of appointment with the Company which are terminable leave for a maximum period of three months.
The by the Non-Executive Director or the Company on not Company may adjust such period as deemed less than three months notice.
appropriate for any new Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directorships The Executive Director service contracts contain a The Board recognises that Executive Directors may be change of control provision whereby if 50% or more of invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other the shares in the Company come under the direct or businesses and that the knowledge and experience indirect control of a person or persons acting in concert, which they gain in those appointments could be of an Executive Director may serve notice on the benefit to the Company.
Prior approval of the Board is Company, at any time within the 12 month period required before acceptance of any new appointments.
following a change of control, terminating his employment.
Upon termination in these circumstances, During the year to 28 January 2017, only Peter Cowgill an Executive Director will be entitled to a sum equal to held other Non-Executive Directorships.
Peter Cowgill 112% of his basic salary less deductions required by is the Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets law and such Executive Director waives any claim for Group Plc and was appointed as a Non-Executive wrongful or unfair dismissal.
The Company does not Director of Better Bathrooms UK Limited in January envisage such a provision being contained in any 2017.
His aggregate retained earnings were 46,042 service contracts for any new Executive Directors.
2016: 42,500 in respect of these Non-Executive Directorships.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office address.
LTIP Where cessation of employment is due to ill-health, injury, disability or the sale of the employing entity out of the group, the unvested LTIP award will continue.
It will continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting date unless the Committee determines that it should vest as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of cessation.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustrations of Application of Remuneration Policy The chart below illustrates the level of remuneration that would be received by the Executive Directors in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy in the year to 3 February 2018.
Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of remuneration payable at target performance and remuneration payable at maximum performance to each Director under the policy.
Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total under each scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration and variable remuneration.
Fixed elements of remuneration Variable element of remuneration LTIP LTIP scheme approved by the shareholders at the 2017 AGM 2,500 2,250 2,053k 2,000 25% 1,750 1,500 1,220k 1,250 37% 5% 1,000 32% 771k 723k 750 19% 477k 500 5% 37% 321k 28% 100% 63% 38% 250 100% 67% 44% 0 Minimum On targetMaximum Minimum On targetMaximum P. Cowgill Executive Chairman B.
Small Chief Financial O cer The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Minimum On target performance Maximum performance Fixed Elements of The base salary is the salary as at 1 April 2017 Remuneration The benefits are taken as those in the single figure table on page 92 The pension contribution for Brian Small 0% 50% 100% Annual Bonus 1 Long Term Incentive Plan 2 0% 25% 150% to 200% 1.
The maximum annual bonus has been based on the usual maximum award of 100% of salary.
The above graphs assume that the new LTIP is adopted at the 2017 AGM.
On target performance is 25% of salary.
Maximum performance is 150% of salary in the case of Brian Small and 200% of salary in the case of Peter Cowgill.
One third of the award would be earned in the year to 3 February 2018 subject to the performance conditions being met and the rules of the scheme.
Salary reviews effective 1 April annually 2.
In accordance with the remuneration policy 32,000 2016: 26,000 of the pension contribution shown above for Brian Small has been paid as a cash amount 3.
Heather Jackson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 6 May 2015 4.
Andy Rubin was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 12 February 2016 but does not receive a salary from JD Sports Fashion Plc for this role The taxable benefit received by Peter Cowgill is healthcare insurance and the taxable benefits received by Brian Small are car benefits and healthcare insurance.
Pension contributions are: Peter Cowgill 0% of salary Brian Small - 12% of salary 2014 2017 LTIP Audited An LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM 2014 LTIP and consisted of one award made in 2014 that would pay out in cash after three years, subject to continued employment and meeting three annual performance targets which would drive the creation of shareholder value.
The delivery mechanism was cash rather than shares, given the current shareholder structure, the lack of a large free float and taking into account that the Company does not operate a share scheme.
All payments would be non-pensionable.
The following table outlines the total structure of the three year 2014 LTIP: Performance to 28 January 2017 000 P Cowgill 1,464 B Small 383 1,847 The 2014 LTIP will be paid out in full in 2017 following satisfaction of the performance conditions under that plan.
No further awards can be made under the 2014 LTIP.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The target for the period 2016 2017 was 86.2m TSR is calculated for each financial year end relative to threshold earnings with a maximum payment being the base date of 31 January 2009 by taking the achieved where earnings of 94.8m are achieved with percentage change of the market price over the straight line vesting in-between.
Threshold earnings relevant period, re-investing any dividends at the exare the consolidated earnings on a normalised basis dividend rate.
pre-exceptional and goodwill as represented in the audited accounts for the period.
In the interests of Executive Chairmans Remuneration Over Past commercial confidence the targets for subsequent 5 years Audited years based on threshold earnings will be disclosed The total remuneration figures for the Executive one year in arrears.
Chairman during each of the last 5 financial years are shown in the table below.
The total remuneration Statement of Directors Shareholding Audited figure includes the annual bonus based on that years The interests of the Directors who held office at 28 performance and LTIP awards based on three year January 2017 and their connected persons in the performance periods ending in the relevant financial Companys ordinary shares are shown below: year.
The annual bonus payout and LTIP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for each of these years.
Ordinary shares of 0.25p each 28 January 2017 30 January 2016 Year ended January 2013 January 2014 January 2015 January 2016 January 2017 P Cowgill 8,380,260 8,305,260 Total remuneration 2,045 3,137 1,951 2,728 2,762 B Small 504,000 479,000 000 Annual bonus % 37 100 100 200 200 8,884,260 8,784,260 LTIP vesting % 100 n a n a n a 100 There has been no change in the interests of the Directors or their connected persons between 28 The LTIP performance criteria has been achieved January 2017 and the date of this report.
The holdings over the full three year period to 28 January 2017 stated above are held directly by the Directors and and the award will vest on 30 October 2017. their connected persons and are not subject to any performance targets.
The Directors have no other Percentage Change in Executive Chairmans interests in Company shares.
As stated in the Directors' Remuneration Unaudited remuneration policy, the Company does The table below shows the percentage change in not have a minimum share ownership requirement the Executive Chairmans salary, benefits and annual for Directors.
Given our narrow shareholder base, bonus between financial years 30 January 2016 the Committee considers it impractical to set and 28 January 2017 compared to UK Head Office realistic shareholding targets.
employees in the JD and Size?
businesses, being deemed by the Board as the most appropriate Total Shareholder Return Unaudited comparator group.
The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Group in comparison to the FTSE % change All Share General Retailers Index over the Salary past eight years.
The Committee consider the FTSE All Executive Chairman 1.5 Share General Retailers Index a relevant index UK Head Office Employee average 3.3 for total shareholder return comparison disclosure required under the Regulations as the index represents Benefits Executive Chairman - the broad range of UK quoted retailers.
UK Head Office Employee average - JD Sports Fashion Plc Annual Bonus FTSE All Share General Retailers Index Executive Chairman 200.0 UK Head Office Employee average 3.0 4500% 4000% Comparator group as defined above.
There are circa 1,204 employees within this group.
3500% 3000% 2500% 2000% 1500% 1000% 500% 0% 31 01 09 31 01 10 31 01 11 31 01 12 31 01 13 31 01 14 31 01 15 31 01 16 31 01 17 93 93 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors Remuneration Report continued Relative Importance of Spend on Pay Unaudited Non-Financial 2016 17 The following table shows the Groups actual spend These targets focused on the following key on pay for all employees relative to dividends, tax and strategic areas: retained profits: Strategic development and growth of JD in the UK 2016 2017 % Change International development of the JD brand Staff costs 000 335,773 267,994 25.3 The strategic future plan and profitability Dividends 000 14,501 13,820 4.9 for the Outdoor businesses Tax 000 53,788 31,001 73.5 People development, recruitment and Retained profits 000 184,580 100,630 83.4 succession planning across the JD Group Implementation of Directors' Remuneration Policy Consideration by Directors of Matters Relating in 2016 17 Unaudited to Directors Remuneration Unaudited The Committee comprises three independent Salaries Non-Executive Directors, being Andrew Leslie, Martin Davies and Heather Jackson.
Andrew Leslie Following this years review, the Committee has was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee determined that salaries for the current year will be on 1 October 2013. revised as follows with effect from 1 April 2017: The Committee assists the Board in determining the Previous New Position Against Groups policy on Executive Directors remuneration Salary Salary Percentage Comparator and determines the specific remuneration packages 000 000 Increase Group for Senior Executives, including the Executive Directors, P Cowgill 758 769 1.5% Upper Quartile on behalf of the Board.
Peter Cowgill, the Executive Chairman and Brian Small, the Chief Financial Officer, B Small 264 268 1.5% Lower Quartile have assisted the Committee when requested with regards to matters concerning key Executives below Board level.
The Comparator Group for these purposes is the FTSE 350 companies.
The Committee can obtain independent advice at the Companys expense where they consider it appropriate The salary increases for P Cowgill and B Small are and in order to perform their duties.
No such advice in line with the general salary increase for Head was obtained during 2016 17.
The Committee is formally constituted with Annual Bonus Performance Targets written Terms of Reference, which are available on the Companys corporate website www.
Financial Targets 2016 17 The Committee engages with the major shareholders or other representative groups where appropriate Two thirds of the annual bonus is linked to financial concerning remuneration matters.
The targets in respect of the annual bonus for the financial year to 28 January 2017 were 166 million The Committee is mindful of the Companys social, threshold earnings with a maximum payment being ethical and environmental responsibilities and is satisfied achieved where earnings are 183 million.
The Board that the current remuneration arrangements and policies considers that the targets for the financial year to 3 do not encourage irresponsible behaviour.
February 2018 are commercially sensitive and so will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report.
The Committee has met twice during the year under review with each member attending all the meetings.
Details of attendance at the Committee meetings are set out on page 81.
Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of Voting at General Meeting Unaudited At the 2014 AGM, the approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy received the following votes from shareholders: 2014 AGM % Votes cast for 37,657,370 95.48 Votes cast against 1,780,858 4.52 Total votes cast 39,438,228 Votes withheld - At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: 2016 AGM % Votes cast for 136,999,926 83.06 Votes cast against 27,940,303 16.94 Total votes cast 164,940,229 Votes withheld 5,858,818 This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board.
Andrew Leslie Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 April 2017 95 95 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017
