Remuneration Report Contents Part 1: Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman page 58 Part 2: Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy page 63 Part 3: Annual Remuneration Report page 72 Remuneration compliance This report is compiled in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Company has complied with the provisions regarding remuneration matters contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Part 1: Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the report on directors remuneration for 2016 17.
Outcome for 2016 17 remuneration Total remuneration As outlined in our Strategic Report it has been a challenging year for NEXT and the remuneration outcomes for the directors have reflected this.
Total annual remuneration earned by our executive directors for the financial year 2016 17 was significantly less than that earned for the financial year 2015 16.
In the view of the Remuneration Committee, this is appropriate and aligns the remuneration received by management with the experience of shareholders.
The Committee considers that the current remuneration arrangements promote the long term success of the Company within an appropriate risk framework and are suitably aligned to enhancing shareholder value and the Companys objective of delivery of long term sustainable growth in total shareholder returns TSR.
Moreover, we believe our rigorous approach to target setting and linking pay to performance means that the actual remuneration earned by the executive directors continues to be a good reflection of their and NEXTs overall performance.
Thus the challenging trading conditions encountered by the Company during the year and the reduction in the profit before tax in 2016 17 as compared with the previous year, are reflected in no executive directors annual bonus having been earned in 2016 17 and in decreased LTIP vesting rates as compared with the previous year.
Total remuneration for 2016 17 for Lord Wolfson was over 55% lower than his total remuneration in 2015 16, and between 30% and 45% lower for the other executives.
Despite the challenging trading conditions the business continues to face, NEXT remains focused on executing our business strategy and improving the business over the long term.
Annual bonus As has been the case for many years at NEXT, annual bonus is calculated with reference to pre-tax EPS, including the impact of share buybacks.
In the 2014 Remuneration Report we first set out the basis on which we would ensure that executive directors are not incentivised to recommend share buybacks to the Board in preference to special dividends, or vice versa.
This is achieved by making a notional adjustment to EPS growth for special dividends, on the basis that the cash distributed had instead been used to purchase shares at the prevailing share price on the day of the special dividend payment.
The growth in pre-tax EPS in the year, as adjusted for special dividends, was below the target threshold and no bonus was earned for 2016 17, compared to 45% for the executive directors and 67% for Lord Wolfson in 2015 16.
Details of the targets set for 2016 17 are on page 73.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP LTIP awards are granted twice a year each at 100% of base salary for executive directors and during the year the Committee approved two grants and two awards vested.
The LTIP for the three year performance period to July 2016 vested61% July 2015 LTIP: vested 76% as NEXTs TSR rankedseventh out of 21 companies in the comparator group.
The LTIP for the three year performance period to January 2017 vested 20% January 2016 LTIP: vested 77% as NEXTs TSR rankedeleventh.
Details of the comparator group are set out on page 80.
From 2014 onwards, awards granted to executive directors which vest must be taken in shares and the net shares after payment of tax and NIC must be held for a minimum period of two further years.
Matters addressed during the year The Committee has addressed the following matters this year: Remuneration policy NEXTs current Remuneration Policy reaches the end of its three year life at the AGM on 18 May 2017.
The Remuneration Committee has therefore reviewed the current Remuneration Policy and proposes a number of minor changes.
We shall be seeking shareholder approval for the revised Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Thus, there will be both a resolution to approve the remuneration report including the implementation of the current policy in respect of the 2016 17 financial year and a resolution to approve the revised new Remuneration Policy for the forthcoming three year period to the 2020 AGM.
Background and summary proposals Whilst the Committee was mindful of the proposals set out by the Executive Remuneration Working Group ERWG, which encouraged companies to consider whether alternative models of remuneration were appropriate, we do not feel it is the right time in the Companys development to make any radical changes.
NEXTs business model and strategy has not changed and we believe that the structure of the existing Remuneration Policy continues to be the right one for the Company and its shareholders as it is aligned with the Companys annual and long term performance, with shareholder experience and with the Companys strategy, objectives and business model.
We are therefore proposing a Remuneration Policy which makes only modest changes to the current Remuneration Policy.
The proposed amendments to the policy address developments in best practice and assist with its efficient operation.
That said, the Committee will continue to monitor developments in best practice.
If, at a later date, the Committee concludes that alternative remuneration arrangements would be appropriate, it would consult with NEXTs major shareholders before proposing a revised policy to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the existing Remuneration Policy against the current backdrop in trading conditions and the wider economic background generally and determined that, with a few changes, the current Remuneration Policy remains fit for purpose and supports the long term success of the business.
Proposed changes A summary of the changes to the policy is set out below: Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Share Matching Plan SMP As executive directors have not been granted SMP awards in recent years, we propose that the facility to make future grants under this plan to the executive directors is formally removed from the new Remuneration Policy.
Legacy SMP awards granted to individuals before they were promoted to the Board as executive directors will continue to run their course.
Participants in the LTIP have not previously been entitled to receive ordinary and special dividend accruals on any awards vesting under the LTIP.
It is proposed that this will be amended so participants in the future will be entitled to receive ordinary and special dividend accruals on any awards granted under the LTIP to the extent which they vest.
The Committee recognises that the inclusion of dividend accruals on any vested awards increases the expected value of the award.
However, the Committee noted that maximum normal annual award levels of 200% of salary which will remain unchanged are already below the market median for FTSE 100 Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers 260% and 225% respectively and current practice in most other FTSE 100 companies is to provide for dividend accrual on vested awards.
Therefore, the Committee is comfortable that the proposed amendment is appropriate as it provides a relatively modest benefit to participants and its effect is to align further the position of LTIP award holders with that of shareholders.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 59 slugline Remuneration Report The Company will be seeking shareholder approval at the forthcoming 2017 AGM for changes to the Companys LTIP rules to permit the dividend accruals described above.
Annual bonus The annual bonus plan will remain unchanged in terms of the application of stretching financial measures and the maximum amounts payable.
Participants will be entitled to receive ordinary and special dividend accruals on any awards vesting under the Deferred Share Bonus award.
Service contracts For any new executive director, it is proposed that the service contract will limit any payment in lieu of notice to 12 months base salary only with the provision for payments on a phased basis.
There will also be no liquidated damages provisions on change of control for any new executive director.
Annual base salary review for 2017 18 The Committee undertook a review of executive director salaries in the context of overall remuneration, and considered whether, in the case of those executive directors promoted internally to the Board in recent years, some adjustments to reflect their experience and development in the role of executive director was appropriate.
NEXT has a good track record of internal promotions to the Board and has not made an external appointment of an executive director for over 28 years.
When Michael Law Group Operations Director and Jane Shields Group Sales and Marketing Director were each promoted to executive directors in July 2013 and when Amanda James Group Finance Director was similarly promoted in April 2015, none of them received a salary increase at the time of their promotion.
The Committee firmly believes that salary increases should be timed to reflect performance and contribution at Board level rather than automatically applied immediately on promotion.
Salary progression is therefore phased over a period of approximately 1 to 3 years after promotion to the Board, subject to proven performance and development during that period.
We understand that this approach to salary progression for internal promotions to the Board may be relatively uncommon and other companies would typically award significant salary increases on promotion and with effect from the day of joining the Board.
Consequently, these increases are often not externally reported.
The Committee is very mindful that the NEXT approach to salary progression does mean that there are significant pay rises awarded to executives in the first few years following their promotion.
However, ours is actually a prudent policy and delaying increases is in the interests of shareholders as it saves money on salary as well as bonus and LTIP grants which are correspondingly less for the newly promoted executive directors in those first few years following promotion.
Furthermore, if the transition to the executive director role proves to be unsuccessful, any exit terms would be based on a correspondingly lower salary and therefore also in the interests of shareholders.
Therefore, consistent with this approach to salary progression, had the Companys performance in the 2016 17 financial year been in line with our expectations at the outset of the year, the Committee would have proposed an increase of around 15%, effective from February 2017, in the base salary of Michael Law and Jane Shields taking their salaries to 475,000.
This would have represented the final stage in setting their pay levels at an appropriate level, reflecting the progression in their respective roles since their promotion to the Board in July 2013.
Similarly, in the case of the base salary of Amanda James promoted to the Board in April 2015 the Committee would have recommended an increase of 18%, effective from February 2017, taking her base salary to 425,000.
The increase for Amanda James would have been considered a further interim increase reflecting her strong performance in the Group Finance Director role since her promotion to the Board.
However, in light of the lower than expected 2016 17 profit and EPS outcome, the Committee decided that it was more appropriate to revise these proposed salary increases downwards.
Therefore, although many of the challenges facing NEXT are consistent with the UK fashion retailing sector more generally and the executive directors are all performing and developing well, the Committee decided to increase the base salaries of Jane Shields and Michael Law by 1% taking their salaries to 416,200, in line with the wider Company pay award with effect from February 2017.
In the case of Amanda James, the Committee agreed a base salary increase of 16% taking her base salary also to 416,200.
The Committee will consider further salary progression increases for these three executives in due course, although such increases would be subject to ongoing development in their roles, continued strong performance of the individual and the Companys performance against the wider economic background.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The base salary for Lord Wolfson was increased in February 2017 by 1%, in line with the wider Company award.
Lord Wolfsons annual base salary increases have been in line with the wider Company awards since 2009.
For information, even after the salary increase noted above, the executive directors and CEOs salary will continue to be positioned below the median of comparable roles in other FTSE 100 companies in general and other FTSE 100 retailers more specifically.
We believe this demonstrates our overall conservative approach to pay.
Other matters addressed during the year The Committee has addressed the following matters this year: Share ownership guidelines Share ownership guidelines were increased to 2 times salary for all executive directors previously 1.5 times salary for the Chief Executive and 1 times salary for other executive directors.
As at the 2016 17 financial year end, the value of shareholdings of Lord Wolfson, Michael Law and Jane Shields met or exceeded the increased share ownership guidelines of 2 times salary.
Amanda James held shares to the value of 1.8 times her salary at the 2016 17 year end.
In line with the share ownership guidelines, Amanda has until April 2020 i. e. 5 years from the date of her appointment to the Board to acquire the minimum shareholding.
EPS and performance measurement The Committee reviews each year the basis and performance measures used for the annual bonus and LTIP.
The performance measure for the annual bonus continues to be based on pre-tax EPS.
The principal reasons for using EPS are: it is consistent and transparent to participants and shareholders: NEXT is predominantly a single business selling products through a number of channels under the NEXT and third-party brands.
No significant earnings are derived from unrelated businesses and, therefore, a group metric such as EPS is logical and consistent with strategy: EPS continues to be the core financial measure by which the Board assesses overall performance: and the use of EPS is complemented by the application of TSR and consideration of the general economic underpin condition for the LTIP.
As set out in previous years, we consider it right that the impact of share buybacks on EPS or adjustments for special dividends should be included in performance measurement as share buybacks, and more recently special dividends, have been one of NEXTsprimary strategies in returning value to shareholders.
Share buybacks or special dividends are regularly considered by the Board.
Share buybacks are subject to prior approval as to timing, price and volume.
Shares are only bought when the Board is satisfied that the ability to invest in the business and to grow the ordinary dividend will not be impaired.
Remuneration principles The Remuneration Committee members are keenly aware of the importance and sensitivity of remuneration issues among investors, employees and the wider public and the responsibilities which that places on us.
The Committees objective is to ensure that the remuneration paid to senior executives is appropriate in both amount and structure, is directly linked to the Companys annual and long term performance and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
We believe that stable and transparent remuneration structures are key elements in a fair system for rewarding personal and collective contribution across the business.
There are bonus structures throughout the Company, including Head Office, stores, call centres and warehouses.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 61 slugline Remuneration Report The focus is on ensuring that a competitive and appropriate base salary is paid to directors and senior managers, together with incentive arrangements that are: appropriate in both amount and structure: directly linked to the Companys annual and long term performance: in alignment with the interests of shareholders and our long term strategy: and stable and transparent.
We also focus on maintaining an appropriate balance between annual and long term incentive elements and also between cash and share-based elements, with the aim of ensuring that remuneration drives the right behaviours and rewards the right outcomes.
We believe that weighting rewards towards the long term ensures proper shareholder alignment.
Executive directors receive a mix of annual and long term incentives which reward strong business and financial performance in line with the Companys strategy and which are measured against robust benchmarks.
We place special importance on rewarding consistently strong performance over longer periods and, therefore, the balance of incentives is tilted towards the LTIP, with its 3 year performance period and 2 year holding period following vesting.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group are considered to ensure that differences for directors are justified.
Remuneration Policy does not conflict with the Companys approach to environmental, social and corporate governance matters and we believe the current arrangements do not encourage directors to take undue business risks.
Wider employee considerations The Remuneration Committee is very mindful about remuneration arrangements across the Group, including performance related pay which ensures that all employees have the potential to benefit from the success of NEXT.
There are bonus structures throughout the Company and employee share ownership is strongly encouraged.
Market value options over NEXT shares are granted each year to middle management in Head Office as well as senior store staff and participation in our Sharesave is open to all of our UK and Eire employees.
Around 11,900 employees circa 26% of our total UK and Eire employees held options or awards in respect of 5.6 million shares in NEXT at January 2017.
Shareholder engagement During the year, the Committee consulted extensively with our largest shareholders and their representative bodies on our proposed changes to Remuneration Policy.
We were pleased by the level and quality of engagement and the support we received for our proposals.
The Committee genuinely values feedback from shareholders and this was an opportunity, which is very important to me as a relatively new Remuneration Committee chair, to enter into dialogue with our principal shareholders.
2017 AGM The Committee considers that the simplicity and transparency of our remuneration arrangements and their consistent application have contributed positively to NEXTs strong management team continuing to deliver resilient performance in both benign and more challenging trading environments.
I very much hope that shareholders will support the Committees overall approach and, on behalf of the Committee, I commend each of our proposed Remuneration Policy, our 2016 17 Directors Annual Remuneration Report and the changes to the LTIP to you.
Caroline Goodall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 March 2017 62 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Part 2: Proposed Remuneration Policy for the Period 2017 to 2020 The proposed Remuneration Policy is set out in this section.
At the AGM to be held on 18 May 2017 a resolution to adopt the proposed Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders for approval.
The policy is set to apply, subject to shareholders approval, for three years from the 2017 AGM.
The table below summarises the Companys policies with regard to each of the elements of remuneration for existing directors and the approach to payments on external recruitment and termination.
The key changes in the proposed policy from the current Remuneration Policy which expires at the 2017 AGM have been highlighted where necessary.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To attract, motivate and retain high-calibre individuals, while not There is no guaranteed annual increase.
To provide a satisfactory base salary within a total considers it important that base salary increases are kept package comprising salary and performance-related pay.
under tight control given the multiplier effect of such increases on future costs.
In the normal course of events, increases in Performance-related components and certain benefits are executive directors salaries would be in line with the wider calculated by reference to base salary.
The level of salary broadly Company cost of living awards.
reflects the value of the individual, their role, skills and experience.
The Committee reserves flexibility to grant larger increases Operation where considered appropriate, such as where a new executive Normally reviewed annually, generally effective 1 February.
The director, being an internal promotion, has been appointed to the Committee focuses particularly on ensuring that an appropriate Board with an initial salary which is considered below the normal base salary is paid to directors and senior managers.
The Committee market rate, then the Committee may make staged increases to considers salaries in the context of overall packages with reference bring the salary into line as the executive gains experience in the to individual experience and performance, the level and structure role.
Also if there have been significant changes in the size and of remuneration for other employees, the external environment and scope of the executives role then the Committee would review market data.
External benchmarking analysis is only occasionally salary levels accordingly.
undertaken and the Committee has not adopted a prescribed objective of setting salaries by reference to a particular percentile Under the reporting regulations the Company is required to or benchmark.
specify a maximum potential value for each component of pay.
Accordingly, for the period of this policy no base salary paid to an executive director in any year will exceed 850,000 being the current median base salary of FTSE 100 Chief Executives.
The amount of the maximum base salary which may be paid to an executive director in any year shall increase in line with the growth in RPI from the date of approval of this policy.
Performance measures and targets Not applicable.
Key changes to last approved policy No material changes.
To comply with the latest regulatory guidance, the salary cap has been expressed as a fixed amount.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 63 slugline Remuneration Report Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To incentivise delivery of stretching annual goals.
At present Company policy is to provide a maximum bonus of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for To provide focus on the Companys key financial objectives.
To provide a retention element in the case of the Chief Executive Although the Committee has no current plan to make any as any annual bonus in excess of 100% of base salary is payable changes, for the period of this policy the Committee reserves in shares, deferred for a period of two years and subject to flexibility to: forfeiture if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
increase maximum bonus levels for executive directors in any Operation financial year to 200% of salary.
This flexibility would be used Performance measures and related performance targets are set at the only in exceptional circumstances and where the Committee commencement of each financial year by the Committee.
Company considered any such increase to be in the best interests of policy is to set such measures by reference to financial measures shareholders and after appropriate consultation with key such as pre-tax EPS but the Committee retains flexibility to use shareholders: different performance measures during the period of this policy if it considers it appropriate to do so, although at least 75% of any bonus lessen the current differentials in bonus maximums which exist will continue to be subject to financial measures.
between the Chief Executive and other executive directors: and At the threshold level of performance, 20% of the maximum bonus may be earned.
A straight sliding scale of payments operates for introduce or extend an element of compulsory deferral of performance between the minimum and maximum levels.
There is no bonus outcomes if considered appropriate by the Committee.
in-line target level although, for the purposes of the scenario charts Performance measures and targets on page 71, 50% of maximum bonus has been assumed because it Currently performance is assessed against pre-tax EPS targets set is the mid-point.
annually, which take account of factors including the Companys Dividend accruals both in respect of special and ordinary dividends budgets and the wider background of the UK economy.
Pre-tax may be payable on any deferred bonus awards which vest.
EPS has been chosen as the basic metric to avoid executives benefitting from external factors such as reductions in the rate The Company has the flexibility within the rules of the Deferred Share of corporation tax.
Generally the threshold for staff bonuses is Bonus Plan to grant nil cost options as an alternative to conditional set at a lower level than for directors.
The Committee reserves share awards or exceptionally to settle in cash.
flexibility to apply discretion in the interests of fairness to shareholders and executives by making adjustments it considers appropriate.
The Committee reserves flexibility to apply different performance measures and targets in respect of the annual bonus for the period of this policy but a financial measure will continue to be used for at least 75% of the award.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders before any significant changes are made to the use of performance measures.
The basis of performance measurement incorporates an appropriate adjustment to EPS growth to reflect the benefit to shareholders from special dividends paid in any period.
Key changes to last approved policy Dividend accruals both in respect of special and ordinary dividends may be payable on vested deferred bonus awards.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To incentivise management to deliver superior total shareholder The maximum possible aggregate value of awards granted to returns TSR over three year performance periods relative to all executive directors will be 200% of annual salary i. e. 100% a selected group of retail companies, and align the interests of every six months and up to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee reserves the right to vary these levels within the Retention of key, high calibre employees over three-year overall annual limits described above.
In addition, awards granted performance periods and encouraging long term shareholding, to executive directors which vest must be taken in shares and through post vesting holding requirement, and commitment to the net shares after payment of tax and NIC must be held for a the Company.
minimum period of two further years.
The Committee reserves the right to lengthen but not reduce the performance period and Operation to further increase the holding period or to introduce a retention A variable percentage of a pre-determined maximum number of requirement.
shares can vest, depending on the achievement of performance conditions.
Performance measures and targets Performance is measured over a period of three years.
Currently The maximum number of shares that may be awarded to each performance is measured based on NEXTs TSR against a group director is a percentage of each directors base salary at the date of currently 20 other UK listed retail companies which are, in the view each grant, divided by NEXTs average share price over the three of the Committee, most comparable with NEXT in size or nature months prior to the start of the performance period.
Comparison against such a group is more likely to reflect the Companys relative performance against its peers, LTIP awards are made twice a year to reduce the volatility inherent in thereby resulting in awards vesting on an appropriate basis.
any TSR performance measure and to enhance the portfolio effect for participants of more frequent, but smaller, grants.
Percentage Relative performance vesting The Company has the flexibility within the rules of the LTIP to grant nil cost options as an alternative to conditional share awards and to Below median 0% settle vested LTIP awards in cash.
Median 20% Upper quintile 100% Dividend accruals both in respect of special and ordinary dividends may be payable on any vested LTIP awards.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of a three year performance period then that award will lapse: there is no retesting.
Key changes to last approved policy Dividend accruals both in respect of special and ordinary dividends may be payable on vested awards.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 65 slugline Remuneration Report Pension Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To provide for retirement through Company sponsored schemes Under the DB section and the SPA, the maximum potential or a cash alternative for personal pension planning and therefore pension is only achieved on completion of at least 20 years of assist attraction and retention.
pensionable service at age 65, when two thirds of the executive directors annual pensionable salary at October 2012 could Operation become payable.
The lump sum payable on death in service is Lord Wolfson, Michael Law and Jane Shields are deferred members four times base salary.
of the defined benefit DB section of the 2013 NEXT Group Pension Plan the Plan.
No DC contributions, or equivalent cash supplement payments, will be made to an executive director in any year that will exceed 25% of In addition to being a deferred member of the DB section of the base salary being slightly below the median level of contributions or Plan, Lord Wolfson is a member of the unfunded, unapproved payments made to FTSE 100 Chief Executives.
supplementary pension arrangement SPA, described on page 77.
His future pension will be calculated by reference to his October 2012 Performance measures and targets salary, rather than his final earnings, and any future salary changes will Not applicable.
Key changes to last approved policy Jane Shields and Michael Law ceased to contribute to the Plan in No material changes.
To comply with the latest regulatory 2011 and in 2012 respectively.
Their pensions are no longer linked to guidance, the pension cap has been expressed as a fixed salary and will increase in line with statutory deferred revaluation only percentage of salary.
Lord Wolfson, Michael Law and Jane Shields receive salary supplements of 15% in lieu of past changes to their pension arrangements, in line with other senior employee members of the DB section of the Plan.
Amanda James is a member of the defined contribution section of the Plan and the Company currently makes a contribution equal to 5% of her salary into her pension plan.
Amanda can opt to receive an equivalent cash supplement in lieu of this Company contribution.
This is consistent with the pension provision and alternatives available to employees generally.
New employees of the Group can join the defined contribution DC section of the NEXT Plan or the statutory Auto-Enrolment plan or receive a cash supplement.
Bonuses are not taken into account in assessing pensionable earnings in the Plan.
Other benefits Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To provide market competitive non-cash benefits to attract and During the policy period, the value of benefits other than retain high-calibre individuals.
relocation costs paid to an executive director in any year will not exceed 150,000.
In addition, the Committee reserves the Operation right to pay up to 250,000 relocation costs in any year to an Executive directors receive benefits which may include the provision executive director if considered appropriate to secure the better of a company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance, performance by an executive director of their duties.
subscriptions to professional bodies and staff discount on Group merchandise.
A driver is also made available to the executive During the policy period, the actual level of taxable benefits directors.
provided will be included in the Single Total Figure of Remuneration.
The Committee reserves discretion to introduce new benefits where it concludes that it is in the interests of NEXT to do so, having regard Performance measures and targets to the particular circumstances and to market practice and reserves Not applicable.
flexibility to make relocation related payments.
Key changes to last approved policy Whilst not considered necessarily to be benefits, the Committee Increased the benefits cap by 50,000 to 150,000 to provide reserves the discretion to authorise attendance by directors and suitable flexibility over the period of the Remuneration Policy.
their family members at the Companys cost if required at corporate events and to receive reasonable levels of hospitality in accordance with Company policies.
Reasonable business related expenses will be reimbursed including any tax thereon.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To encourage all employees to make a long term investment in Investment currently limited to a maximum amount of 250 per the Companys shares.
The Committee reserves the right to increase the maximum amount in line with limits set by HMRC currently 500 per month.
Operation Executive directors can participate in the Companys Sharesave Performance measures and targets scheme which is HMRC approved and open to all employees Not applicable.
A similar scheme is available to employees in Eire.
Key changes to last approved policy Option grants are generally made annually, with the exercise price Updated to permit the maximum amount to reflect the latest discounted by a maximum of 20% of the share price at the date HMRC limits.
Options are exercisable three or five years from the date of grant.
Alternatively, participants may ask for their contributions to be returned.
Termination payments Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Consistent with market practice, to Each of the executive directors has a rolling service contract.
Dates of appointment and notice periods ensure NEXT can recruit and retain are disclosed on page 85.
The contract is terminable by the Company on giving one years notice and key executives, whilst protecting the by the individual on giving six months notice.
For current directors, the Company has reserved the Company from making payments right to make a payment in lieu of notice on termination of an executive directors contract equal to for failure.
their base salary and contractual benefits excluding performance-related pay.
For future directors, any payment in lieu of notice would be limited to their base salary only.
Operation For current directors, if notice of termination is given immediately following a change of control of The Committee will consider the need the Company, the executive director may request immediate termination of his her contract and for and quantum of any termination payment of liquidated damages equal to the value of his her base salary and contractual benefits.
payments having regard to all the Liquidated damages provisions will not be present in any service contract for a new executive relevant facts and circumstances at director.
Any new service contract will include provision for any termination payments to be made that time.
Future service contracts will take In normal circumstances executive directors have no entitlement to compensation in respect of into account relevant published loss of performance bonuses and all share awards would lapse following resignation.
under certain circumstances e. g. good leaver or change in control, and solely at the Committees discretion, annual bonus payments may be made and would ordinarily be calculated up to the date of termination only, based on performance.
In addition, awards made under the LTIP would in those circumstances generally be time pro-rated and remain subject to the application of the performance conditions at the normal measurement date.
The Committee also has a standard discretion to vary the application of time pro-rating in such cases.
Good leaver treatments are applied in exceptional cases only.
In the event of any termination payment being made to a director including any performancerelated pay elements, the Committee will take full account of that directors duty to mitigate any loss and, where appropriate, may seek independent professional advice and consider the views of shareholders as expressed in published guidance prior to authorising such payment.
Consistent with market practice, in the event of removal from office of an executive director, the Company may pay a contribution towards the individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement and such other amounts as the Committee considers to be necessary, having taken legal advice, in settlement of potential claims.
Any such fees would be disclosed with all other termination arrangements.
The Committee reserves the right, if necessary, to authorise additional payments in respect of such professional fees if not ascertained at the time of reporting such termination arrangements up to a maximum of 10,000.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 10,000 plus related taxes per director.
Key changes to last approved policy Payment in lieu of notice will be limited to base salary for any new executive directors.
Liquidated damages will not be used for any new executive director appointment.
Any new service contracts will include provision for phased payments.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 67 slugline Remuneration Report Recovery and withholding provisions Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To ensure the Company can recover any payments made or Not applicable.
potentially due to executive directors under performance-related Performance measures and targets remuneration structures.
Operation Key changes to last approved policy Recovery and withholding provisions are in the service contracts of No material changes.
all executive directors and will be enforced where appropriate to recover or withhold performance-related remuneration which has been overpaid due to: a material misstatement of the Companys accounts: errors made in the calculation of an award: or a directors misconduct.
These provisions allow for the recovery of sums paid and or withholding of sums to be paid.
Chairman and non-executive director fees Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To ensure fees paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors The total of fees paid to the Chairman and the non-executive are competitive and comparable with other companies of directors in any year will not exceed the maximum level for such equivalent size and complexity so that the Company attracts nonfees from time to time prescribed by the Companys articles of executive directors who have a broad range of experience and association currently 750,000 per annum.
skills to oversee the implementation of our strategy.
Performance measures and targets Operation Non-executive directors receive the normal staff discount on Remuneration of the non-executive directors is normally reviewed Group merchandise but do not participate in any of the Groups annually and determined by the Chairman and the executive bonus, pension, share option or other incentive schemes.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee Key changes to last approved policy excluding the Chairman.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who chair the Remuneration and Audit Committees, and act as the Senior Independent Director.
The structure of fees may be amended within the overall limits.
External benchmarking is undertaken only occasionally and there is no prescribed policy regarding the benchmarks used or any objective of achieving a prescribed percentile level.
Currently, for each day spent on Company business in excess of the normal time commitment, the Chairman will be paid 1,500 and the non-executive directors 1,000.
These are subject to an annual review by the Board.
The policies as set out above would apply to the promotion of an existing group employee to the Board.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The following principles will be applied on an internal appointment or the recruitment of an external candidate to the Board.
For such appointments, and unless agreed otherwise with the new director, the Company will honour the contractual entitlements and other incentives e. g. options granted under the NEXT Share Matching Plan awarded prior to the Board appointment.
For external recruits, the Committee will also aim to structure and agree a package which is in line with the same policies for existing executive directors as set out above.
However, consistent with the reporting regulations, the Committee reserves the right not to apply the caps contained within the policy for fixed pay, either on joining or for any subsequent review within the life of this policy, although the Committee would not envisage exceeding these caps in practice.
In addition, the Committee may offer cash or share-based incentives when considered to be necessary to secure a candidate and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
It may be necessary to make such awards on more bespoke terms which differ from NEXTs existing annual and share-based pay structures.
Depending on the timing of an appointment it may be necessary to use different performance criteria to other executive directors for any initial incentive awards.
However, the Committee will not authorise the payment of more than it considers necessary and will abide by the caps for such elements within the general policy.
Additional awards may be made to compensate for forfeiture of incentive awards in the previous employer, and may not be subject to the caps applied to NEXTs annual bonus plan or the LTIP.
All such awards for external appointments, whether made under the annual bonus plan, LTIP or otherwise, will be limited to the commercial value of the amounts forfeited and will take account of the nature, time periods and performance requirements of those awards.
In particular, the Committees starting point will be that any forfeited awards which are subject to continued service or performance requirements are replaced by NEXT awards with broadly equivalent terms.
However, the Committee may relax these requirements in exceptional circumstances and where the Committee considers it to be less expensive for shareholders, for example where service periods are materially complete and or the replacement awards are materially discounted to reflect the conditions on forfeited awards.
The Committee will only authorise guaranteed or non pro-rated awards under the annual bonus plan where the Committee considers it is necessary to secure a recruitment and these would be limited to no more than the first year of appointment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet such reasonable relocation expenses it considers appropriate and or make a contribution towards legal fees in agreeing employment terms.
The Company has not made an external appointment of an executive director for over 28 years and therefore this policy, which remains materially unchanged from the last approved policy, has not been used since its implementation.
All such appointments during this time have been through internal promotions, so it is challenging to set out principles for an event that has not occurred in recent practice.
Therefore, the above broad policy, particularly for external appointments, represent guidelines considered to be reasonable by the Committee, but which will be considered on the merits of each potential appointment on a case by case basis and taking account of evolving best practice.
Exercise of discretion In line with market practice, the Committee retains discretion in relation to the operation and administration of the annual bonus, Deferred Share Bonus Plan and LTIP.
This discretion includes, but is not limited to: the timing of awards and payments: the size of awards, within the overall limits disclosed in the policy table: the determination of vesting: the treatment of awards in the case of change of control or restructuring: the treatment of leavers within the rules of the plan and the termination policy summary shown on page 67: or adjustments needed in certain circumstances for example, rights issue, corporate restructuring or special interim dividend.
While performance conditions will generally remain unchanged once set, the Committee has the usual discretions to amend the measures, weightings and targets in exceptional circumstances such as a major transaction where the unamended n e x t p l c. c o. u k 69 slugline Remuneration Report conditions would cease to operate as intended.
Any such changes would be explained in the subsequent annual remuneration report and, if appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Consistent with best practice, the LTIP rules also provide that any such amendment must not make the amended condition materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition was intended to be prior to the occurrence of such event.
Adjustment to number of shares under deferred bonus and LTIP The number of shares subject to deferred bonus and LTIP awards may be increased to reflect the value of dividends that would have been paid in respect of any dates falling between the grant of awards and the date of vesting.
The terms of incentive plan awards may be adjusted in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger or a similar event that materially affects the price of the shares or otherwise in accordance with the plan rules.
Share ownership guidelines Share ownership guidelines do not form part of directors remuneration but the Committee has determined that these should be observed by executive directors.
The minimum shareholding is 2 times salary for all executive directors previously 1.5 times for the Chief Executive and 1 times for other executive directors.
An executive director has up to five years from date of appointment to acquire the minimum shareholding and only shares owned beneficially are counted.
Legacy commitments The Committee reserves the right to honour all historic contractual entitlements and other incentives provided they were consistent with the shareholder approved policy in place at the time they were agreed.
Any such payments would be disclosed in the relevant Annual Remuneration Report as necessary.
Stating maximum amounts for each element of remuneration Where the above policy refers to the maximum amounts that may be paid in respect of any element of the policy as required under the Regulations these will operate simply as caps and will not be indicative of any aspiration.
Consideration of shareholder views During the year, the Committee consulted extensively with our largest shareholders and their representative bodies on our proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy.
The specific shareholder views about remuneration are also communicated to the Committee on an ongoing basis through inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue and shareholders and representative bodies are able to contact the Committee Chairman directly if they have any concerns regarding remuneration.
Pay and performance scenario analysis The Committees objective is to ensure that the remuneration paid to senior executives is appropriate in both amount and structure, is directly linked to the Companys annual and longer term performance and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Careful consideration is given to ensuring there is an appropriate balance in the remuneration structure between annual and long term rewards, as well as between cash and share-based payments.
The charts opposite indicate the level of remuneration that could be received by each executive director in accordance with the directors Remuneration Policy in the first year to which the new policy applies i. e. year to January 2018 at different levels of performance.
These scenarios do not take into account share price movement or dividends received.
For simplicity the value of any potential all-employee award has been ignored.
The Committee has a conservative approach to overall levels of executive pay.
Variable pay is linked to measures which are aligned with the Companys long term strategy and objectives.
The overall level of executive director pay remains modest compared with that available at other FTSE 100 companies and the chosen maximum remuneration indicated in the charts opposite reflects the Committees conservative approach to executive pay which it considers is appropriate.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Lord Wolfson Chief Executive Fixed pay Annual bonus Fixed pay LTIP multiple period 100% Total 1,244k Mid-point 58% 27% 15% Total 2,134k median Total 31% 29% 40% Maximum 3,952k 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 Amount 000 Amanda James Group Finance Director Fixed pay Annual bonus Fixed pay 100% Total 474k LTIP multiple period Mid-point Total 849k 56% 25% 19% median Total 28% 24% 48% Maximum 1,723k 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 Amount 000 Michael Law Group Operations Director Fixed pay Annual bonus Fixed pay 100% Total 502k LTIP multiple period Mid-point 57% 24% 19% Total 876k median Total 29% 24% 47% Maximum 1,750k 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 Amount 000 Jane Shields Group Sales and Marketing Director Fixed pay Annual bonus Fixed pay 100% Total 514k LTIP multiple period Mid-point 58% 23% 19% Total 888k median Total 29% 24% 47% Maximum 1,762k 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 Amount 000 In the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Fixed Base salary same as for 2017 18 see page 73 minimum Benefits same value as for 2016 17 Pension-related salary supplements for Lord Wolfson, Michael Law and Jane Shields calculated at 15% of base salary for 2017 18.
No pension supplement is assumed to be paid to Amanda James Pension amount for Lord Wolfson based on 2016 17 single total figure of remuneration pension value.
No pension value included for deferred members of the defined benefit pension plan i. e. Michael Law and Jane Shields.
Amanda James is currently a member of the defined contribution section of the 2013 NEXT Group Pension Plan.
The pension value for Amanda is based on a Company contribution equal to 5% of her base salary Mid-point Includes the performance-related pay a director would receive in the scenario where: median 50% of maximum annual bonus is earned being the mid-point LTIP performance results in a median TSR ranking and therefore 20% of the maximum award would vest Maximum Includes the performance-related pay a director would receive in the scenario where performance equalled or exceeded maximum targets: 100% of the annual bonus 100% vesting of LTIP n e x t p l c. c o. u k 71 slugline Remuneration Report NEXT employment conditions generally Pay structures and employment conditions for other Group employees are driven by market and role comparatives and are also considered by the Committee to ensure that any differences for directors are justified.
Salary increases for the wider employee group are taken into consideration when determining increases for executive directors and senior management.
In common with executive directors, all other employees are eligible to participate in annual bonus arrangements.
The targets for these are linked to performance of the group, their operating function or personal performance.
These other employees are provided with a competitive package of benefits that includes the opportunity to participate in the Groups pension arrangements and staff discount on Group merchandise.
In addition, the NEXT Management Share Option Plan provides for options over shares, exercisable between three and ten years following their grant, to be allocated to Group employees.
This plan is primarily aimed at middle management and senior store staff.
Options are set at the prevailing market price at the time of grant, and are generally granted annually.
The Company also operates a Share Matching Plan for certain senior managers below Board level to encourage them to invest in shares in the Company and receive a related matching award of shares based on certain underlying fully diluted post-tax EPS targets being achieved which are set by the Remuneration Committee.
In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company also operates all-employee Save As You Earn share schemes in the UK and Eire, in which all permanent employees including executive directors are eligible to participate.
As shareholders, these employees have the opportunity to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee does not generally use any formal internal comparison metrics when setting directors remuneration, other than the consideration of employee pay as described above, but has sought advice from FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP from time to time on the appropriateness and competitiveness of remuneration structures in place within the Company.
Part 3: Annual Remuneration Report Contents This report comprises a number of sections: Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 17 page 73 Payments for loss of office page 82 Single total figure of remuneration page 74 Company performance and CEO remuneration comparison page 82 Executive directors external appointments page 76 Change in remuneration of Chief Executive page 83 Pension entitlements page 76 Relative importance of spend on pay page 83 Directors shareholding and share interests page 77 Dilution of share capital by employee share schemes page 83 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year page 80 Remuneration Committee page 84 Performance targets for outstanding awards page 80 Voting outcomes at General Meetings page 84 Payments to past directors page 81 Service contracts page 85 Annual remuneration report The Remuneration Committee presents the annual remuneration report, which, together with the Chairmans introduction on pages 58 to 62, will be put to shareholders as an advisory non-binding vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2017.
Sections which have been subject to audit are noted accordingly.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 17 The Committee has implemented the Remuneration Policy in accordance with the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014.
The table below sets out the way that the policy was implemented in 2016 17 and any significant changes in the way the policy will be implemented in 2017 18.
Element of Policy implemented during 2016 17 and changes in 2017 18 remuneration Base salary The base salary of Lord Wolfson, Michael Law and Jane Shields increased by 1% in February 2017, in line with the wider Company award.
For details about the base salary increase for Amanda James please refer to page 60.
The base salaries for the executive directors from February 2017 are: 000 2017 18 2016 17 Lord Wolfson 773 766 Amanda James 416 360 Michael Law 416 412 Jane Shields 416 412 Annual bonus Annual bonus is calculated on pre-tax EPS and we ensure that the executive directors are not incentivised to recommend share buybacks in preference to special dividends, or vice versa.
This is achieved by making a notional adjustment to EPS for special dividends, on the basis that the cash distributed had instead been used to purchase shares at the prevailing share price on the day of the special dividend payment.
For the year to January 2017, performance targets were set requiring pre-tax EPS growth on the prior year, adjusted for special dividends and excluding exceptional gains, of 5% before any bonus became payable being pre-tax EPS of 583p.
Maximum bonus of 100% and 150% of salary for the executive directors and Chief Executive respectively was payable if pre-tax EPS exceeded growth of 15% being pre-tax EPS of 638p.
Pre-tax EPS growth achieved in the year, adjusted for special dividends, was -0.2%.
In accordance with the bonus formula, no bonus was earned.
As detailed on page 64, the annual bonus plan will remain unchanged in terms of the application of stretching financial measures and the maximum amounts payable, however it is proposed in the new Remuneration Policy that participants will be entitled to receive ordinary and special dividend accruals on any awards vesting under the deferred bonus award.
Bonus performance targets for the year ahead have been set but are not disclosed in advance for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
The targets and performance will be disclosed in next years Remuneration Report.
See Single Total Figure of Remuneration table, Note 5 for details of LTIP vestings in the year.
As detailed on page 59, it is proposed in the new Remuneration Policy that participants will be entitled to receive ordinary and special dividend accruals on any awards vesting under the LTIP.
Grants in 2017 18 will be otherwise made on the same basis to the 2016 17 grants with any changes to the TSR comparator group confirmed immediately prior to each grant.
The Committee previously introduced recovery and withholding provisions in the service contracts withholding of all executive directors to cover the bonus and LTIP, and a 5 year from grant holding period comprising provisions a 3 year vesting period and a 2 year holding period under the LTIP for executive directors.
The Committee reconsidered these requirements during the year and concluded that these provisions remain appropriate.
SMP No change and, with effect from 2014, executive directors are no longer eligible to receive new grants under the SMP.
Chairman and nonThe fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors were increased by 1% in February 2017, in line with the executive director wider Company award.
The Chairman, John Barton, will be paid an annual fee of 270,635 2016 17: 267,955. fees The basic non-executive director fee for 2017 18 is 55,720 2016 17: 55,168, with a further 11,144 2016 17: 11,033 paid to the Chairman of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees respectively, and to the Senior Independent Director.
Michael Roney was appointed as an independent non-executive director, Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate with effect from 14 February 2017.
Michael will succeed John Barton as Chairman when he retires on 1 August 2017.
Michael will be paid an annual fee of 162,500 up until 31 July 2017, thereafter he will be paid an annual fee of 325,000.
Other benefits No material change.
Values disclosed for 2015 16 salary, benefits and pension relate only to the period of her executive directorship during that year.
Performance-related remuneration includes pay relating to the period before she became an executive director but paid after her appointment.
Executive director bonus earned for 2015 16 45% was applied to Amandas full year salary as Amanda had started her transition to the role of Group Finance Director prior to the date she joined the Board.
Jonathan Bewes joined the Board in October 2016.
Caroline Goodall became Remuneration Committee Chairman and Francis Salway became Senior Independent Director in May 2015.
Total emoluments paid to directors salary fees, benefits, salary supplements and annual bonus for the year to January 2017 were 2,900,000 2016: 3,832,000.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information n e x t p l c. c o. u k 75 slugline Note 1: Benefits Note 5: LTIP Car chauffeur Medical insurance Performance targets for the LTIP are set out on page 65.
For the three year period to July 2016, NEXTs TSR ranked number 7 in the comparator group of 21 and 61% of the grant made in the second half of 2013 vested.
The charges cash & NEXT clothing Committee reviewed the Companys financial performance against underlying economic and other conditions allowance Fuel allowance Total the economic underpin and noted that, during this period, the Companys compound average annual growth 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 in underlying EPS and pre-tax profits was 11.4% and 8.3% respectively, significantly ahead of RPI 1.8%.
Ordinary 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 dividends also increased broadly in line with EPS and some 1.2bn was returned to shareholders through share buybacks and special dividends.
The Companys performance also compared favourably against its principal Lord Wolfson 66 66 8 8 3 3 77 77 retail competitors and FTSE100 companies.
The Committee confirmed that the economic underpin performance Amanda James 26 15 8 5 3 2 37 22 condition had been satisfied and, as a consequence, 61% of the award vested.
Michael Law 20 20 3 3 23 23 For the three year period to January 2017, NEXTs TSR ranked number 11 in a comparator group of 21 which Jane Shields 25 23 7 7 3 2 35 32 gives an expected vesting of 20% of the award made in January 2014.
In March 2017 the Committee reviewed the Companys financial performance on the same basis as described above and noted that during this period, the Companys compound annual growth in underlying EPS and pre-tax profit was 6.4% and 4.4% respectively, Note 2: Pension significantly ahead of RPI 1.7%.
Ordinary dividends increased by 7% over the performance period and 1.1bn Defined Benefit DB pension values are calculated using the method required by remuneration regulations, i. e. was returned to shareholders through share buybacks and special dividends.
The Companys performance also the total pension accrued at January 2017 less the total pension accrued at the end of the previous year, adjusted compared positively against its principal retail competitors and FTSE 100 companies.
The Committee confirmed for inflation and multiplied by a factor of 20, less the directors own contribution.
It does not necessarily represent that the economic underpin performance condition had been satisfied and, as a consequence, 20% of the award the economic value of the pension rights accrued and this benefit is not immediately available to the director.
Consistent with other staff participating in the plans, directors salaries are frozen for DB pension purposes at LTIP values included in the 2016 17 single figure table comprise the actual value of awards that have vested for October 2012, but directors may continue to accrue pensionable service.
the performance period ended July 2016 plus the estimated value of awards that will vest for the performance In summary, the pension entitlements of the directors who were members of the DB section of the 2013 NEXT period ended January 2017 based on the average NEXT share price over the final three months of the financial Group Pension Plan during the year are as follows: year of 46.73.
For the 2015 16 comparative figures, numbers have been calculated and updated to reflect the actual market values of the LTIP awards that vested in respect of performance periods ending in that financial year Change in as set out in the table on pages 78 and 79.
Change in accrued The maximum value of LTIP awards that vest for a participant in a year was previously capped at 2.5m.
In line Accrued accrued annual with the decision made by the Committee during 2014 15, the cap has now been removed so does not apply to Years of annual annual pension net any LTIPs vesting in 2016 17 or in any future financial years.
Age at pensionable pension pension of inflation January 2017 service 000 000 000 Note 6: SMP Lord Wolfson 49 22 371 16 16 Michael Law 55 25 125 1 1 Whilst executive directors will not receive further grants, legacy awards will run their course, including those that were granted to executive directors before they were promoted to the Board.
The performance targets are set Jane Shields 53 19 121 1 1 out on page 81.
Years of pensionable service shown above may include bought-in service from the transfer of other pension The estimated value for the 2014 award granted to Amanda James before she was promoted to the Board entitlements into the Plan.
Directors pension arrangements are subject to the same actuarial reduction as other assumes 96% of the maximum award will vest in May 2017 and is based on the average NEXT share price employees on termination or early retirement.
over the three months to January 2017 of 46.73.
Strong growth in fully diluted post-tax EPS, as adjusted for special dividends paid during the 3 year performance period, was slightly below the 30% growth required for a Amanda James is a member of the Defined Contribution section of the 2013 NEXT Group Pension Plan and the maximum award to vest and thereforeit will vest at 96% of the maximum award in May2017, subject to continued Company currently makes a contribution equal to 5% of her salary into her pension plan.
The SMP values for 2015 16 are calculated based on actual market values at the date of vesting as set out in the Note 3: Salary supplement in lieu of pension table on pages 78 and 79.
Supplements of 15% of base salary are paid in lieu of pension provision after the directors became deferred members of the DB section of the NEXT Group Pension Plan.
Jane Shields has received this supplement from 2011, and Michael Law and Lord Wolfson from 2012.
Note 4: Annual bonus Details of the performance targets for the annual bonus are set out on page 73.
For the year to January 2017, in accordance with the bonus formula, no bonus was awarded to any executive director.
To provide a retention element in the case of the Chief Executive, any annual bonus in excess of 100% of base salary is payable in shares, deferred for a period of two years and subject to forfeiture if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
Remuneration Report Defined contribution section Executive directors external Employees of the Group can join the defined contribution appointments section of the 2013 Plan.
Members elect to pay either 3% No current executive director holds any non-executive or 5% of their pensionable earnings which is matched by directorships outside the Group.
For death prior to retirement, a lump sum of three times the members base salary at the previous April is Pension entitlements audited payable along with the current value of the members fund.
information Defined benefit section In 2013 all active members of the NEXT Group Pension Plan The defined benefit section was closed to new members in the Original Plan, were transferred to the new 2013 NEXT 2000.
Since 2012, the accrual of pension benefits has been Group Pension Plan the 2013 Plan so that pensioners of based on pensionable salary frozen at October 2012, rather the Plan could be issued individual policies with Aviva.
Those employees can also elect to receive deferred pensioners and pensioners who had not previously up to a 15% salary supplement or additional contributions to been subject to a buy-in through Aviva were also transferred the defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section to the 2013 Plan.
Benefits within the 2013 Plan mirror those now provides members with a retirement benefit of one in the previous Original Plan.
sixtieth or one eightieth depending on the members chosen Executive directors are members of the 2013 Plan which has contribution rate of pensionable earnings at October 2012 been approved by HM Revenue & Customs and consists of for each year of pensionable service.
defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
Lord Wolfson and a small number of senior employees, on The trustee of both Plans is a limited company, NEXT Pension completion of at least 20 years pensionable service at age Trustees Limited the Trustee.
The Board of the Trustee 65, receive a retirement benefit of two-thirds of pensionable currently comprises of five directors who are all members of earnings at October 2012, which accrues uniformly throughout either the Original Plan or the 2013 Plan, and an independent their pensionable service.
The deferred pensions for Jane Chairman who has no other connection to NEXT.
Two of Shields and Michael Law are based on their pensionable these directors are member nominated directors and cannot earnings at the time they became deferred pensioners and be removed by NEXT.
The other four directors, including the accrued uniformly throughout their pensionable service.
independent director, are appointed by and can be removed The defined benefit section provides a lump sum death in by NEXT.
All directors of the Trustee receive a fee for their service benefit and dependants pensions on death in service services, including those directors who are also employees of or following retirement.
In the case of ill-health retirement, NEXT.
No director of the Company is a director of the Trustee.
only the accrued pension is payable.
All benefits are subject to The Plans investments are kept separate from the business 2013 Plan limits.
Increases to pensions in payment are at the of the NEXT Group and the Trustee holds them in separate discretion of the Trustee although pensionable service post trusts.
Responsibility for investment of the Plans funds has 1997 is subject to limited price indexation.
From 2006, sales been delegated to professional investment managers.
and profit related bonuses were excluded from pensionable earnings and the normal retirement age under the Original The Group operates a salary sacrifice scheme whereby members Plan was increased from 60 to 65.
There are no additional from either section can elect to receive a reduced gross salary benefits payable to directors in the event of early retirement.
in exchange for enhanced employer pension contributions.
The participation of members in the salary sacrifice scheme does Members contribute 3% or 5% of pensionable earnings, not result in any overall increase in costs to the Group.
whilst the Company currently makes contributions at the rate of 17.5%.
The last full triennial actuarial valuation of the 2013 Plan was carried out as at 30 September 2016.
As calculated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the net pension surplus at January 2017 was 62.9m.
Further details including details of the full actuarial valuation are provided in Note 18 of the financial statements.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Certain members including Lord Wolfson whose accrued or projected pension fund value exceeds their personal lifetime allowance are provided with benefits through an unfunded, unapproved supplementary pension arrangement.
The relevant members contribute towards the additional cost of providing these benefits by a payment of 5% on all pensionable earnings to the 2013 Plan.
Since April 2011, where existing members have reached either the annual or lifetime pension contributions limits, the Company has offered those members the choice of leaving the defined benefit section and either joining the defined contribution section with an enhanced Company contribution or taking a salary supplement, in both cases equal to 10% or 15% of their salary depending on their existing contributions and benefits.
Directors shareholding and share interests audited information Directors interests As disclosed on page 61, during the year the Remuneration Committee increased the formal share ownership requirement to 2 times salary for all executive directors previously the Chief Executives minimum shareholding was 1.5 times salary and for other executive directors 1 times salary.
Details of the value of each executive directors share ownership at the 2016 17 financial year end is provided on page 61.
Full details of the basis of allocation and terms of the deferred bonus are set out on page 64.
The LTIP and SMP amounts above are the maximum potential awards that may vest subject to performance conditions described on pages 65, 80 and 81.
Executive directors can participate in the Companys Sharesave scheme see details on page 67 and the amounts above are the options which will become exercisable at maturity.
There have been no other changes to directors interests in the shares of the Company from the end of the financial year to 22 March 2017.
Full details of directors interests in the shares and share options of the Company are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office.
For LTIP awards, the date in this column is the end of the three year performance period.
Actual vesting will be the date on which the Committee determines whether any Performance Conditions have been satisfied, or shortly thereafter.
See page 75 for details of the performance conditions and vesting levels applicable to the LTIP schemes with performance periods ending in the year.
The LTIP price at award date is NEXTs average share price over the three months prior to the start of the performance period.
Within the above table, all awards are subject to performance conditions except for Sharesave options and Deferred Bonus Shares.
From 2014 onwards, LTIP awards granted to executive directors which vest must be taken in shares and the net shares after payment of tax and NIC must be held for a minimum period of two further years.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 79 slugline Remuneration Report The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the SMP, Sharesave and LTIP that vested in the year totalled 2,325,000 2015 16: 5,939,000.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year ended January 2017 audited information LTIP Face value In respect of the LTIP awards granted during the year 2016 17, the maximum face value of awards i. e. the maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the average share price used to determine the award is summarised below: Mar 2016 Sep 2016 Total 000 000 000 Lord Wolfson 766 766 1,532 Amanda James 360 360 720 Michael Law 412 412 824 Jane Shields 412 412 824 Vesting if minimum 20% of the entitlement will be earned for relative TSR at median.
Full vesting requires relative TSR performance achieved at upper quintile.
Performance period March 2016 grant: three years to January 2019.
September 2016 grant: three years to July 2019.
Performance measures The LTIP performance measures are detailed on page 65.
The companies in the TSR comparator group for awards granted during the financial year are: ASOS Dunelm Marks & Spencer Supergroup B&M European Value Retail Halfords Morrisons Ted Baker Burberry Home Retail Group Mothercare Tesco Carpetright J Sainsbury N Brown W H Smith Debenhams JD Sports Pets at Home Dixons Carphone Kingfisher Poundland Following the delisting of Home Retail Group and Poundland in September 2016, B&M European Value Retail and Pets at Home replaced these companies in the comparator group for the September 2016 LTIP grant.
Deferred bonus In addition to the scheme interests detailed above, any annual bonus in excess of 100% of base salary payable to the Chief Executive is payable in shares, deferred for a period of two years and subject to forfeiture if he voluntarily resigns prior to the end of that period.
No 2016 17 annual bonus was earned.
Performance targets for outstanding awards Summarised below are the performance targets for all outstanding awards made under the LTIP and SMP schemes: LTIP Details of potential awards granted to executive directors for outstanding performance periods are as follows: Maximum potential award granted % of base salary Three year performance periods Jane Shields & commencing Lord Wolfson Amanda James Michael Law August 2014 100% 60% 100% February 2015 and August 2015 100% 100% 100% February 2016 and August 2016 100% 100% 100% 80 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Details of the comparator group for the LTIP three year performance periods commencing February 2016 and August 2016 are shown on the previous page.
The comparator group for the performance periods commencing in August 2013, February 2014, August 2014, February 2015 and August 2015 is the same as for the March 2016 LTIP grant.
However, for performance periods commencing August 2013 and February 2014, Poundland was not included in the comparator group.
Following the acquisition by J Sainsbury of Home Retail Group in September 2016, Home Retail Group was delisted from the London Stock Exchange.
For the LTIP grants prior to that time, J Sainsbury and Home Retail Group will continue as two separate entries with their relative TSRs being measured on pre independent and post identical takeover performance over each performance period.
Poundland was also delisted following its acquisition in September 2016.
For the LTIP grants prior to that time which included Poundland in the comparator group, from September 2016, the relative TSR of B&M European Value Retail replaces that of Poundland.
Following the merger of Carphone Warehouse and Dixons Retail in August 2014, for LTIP grants prior to that time, Carphone Warehouse and Dixons continued as two entries and their relative TSRs were measured on a pre independent and post identical merger performance over each performance period.
SMP legacy only While the Committee decided in 2014 that executive directors should no longer participate in the SMP, legacy awards will run their course.
The SMP remains open to a small number of senior executives below Board level.
Vesting of awards is dependent solely on achieving the underlying fully diluted post-tax EPS targets detailed below.
Under the formulae, a notional adjustment is made to actual EPS achieved for special dividends, on the basis that the cash distributed had instead been used to purchase shares at the prevailing share price on the day of the special dividend payment.
Required underlying fully diluted EPS pence Date of grant For 0.5:1 match For 1:1 match For 2:1 match 2016 17 actual May 2014 388.8 409.6 451.2 426.2 These targets require a minimum three year growth in EPS of 12% before any shares vest and a maximum award is only achieved if EPS growth reaches 30% over three years.
The effective matching ratio will be calculated on a straight line basis for EPS falling between each of the threshold points.
The same EPS growth performance targets and matching ratios were also set for the April 2015 and May 2016 SMPs which were not granted to executive directors, although those executives who subsequently joined the Board retain awards granted prior to their joining the Board.
Details of the calculation of fully diluted EPS are provided in Note 8 of the financial statements.
The growth in underlying fully diluted EPS for the 2014 SMP performance period was 23%.
After adjustment for special dividends, this increased to 29% and therefore 96% of the maximum 2014 SMP award will vest in May 2017, subject to continued employment of participants.
Payments to past directors audited information David Keens stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2015 and retired from the business in May 2015.
He received no compensation payments in lieu of notice or otherwise.
During the financial year 2016 17 and in relation to two LTIP awards which vested after he retired, David Keens received shares valued at 438k as at the dates of vesting.
In April 2016 he exercised his award under the 2013 SMP and he received shares valued at 244k at that date.
As a good leaver, his entitlement to these LTIP and SMP awards was time pro-rated proportionately to his actual period of service.
He has no further outstanding LTIP and SMP awards.
Andrew Varley stepped down from the Board in May 2013 and continued in his role as Group Property Director until he retired in May 2014.
Again, he received no compensation payments in lieu of notice or otherwise.
During the financial year 2016 17 he was paid 119k in relation to an LTIP award which vested.
As a good leaver, his LTIP entitlement was time prorated proportionately to his actual period of service.
There were no other payments made to past directors.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 81 slugline Remuneration Report Payments for loss of office audited information There were no payments made to any director in respect of loss of office.
Performance and CEO remuneration comparison Performance graph The graph below illustrates the TSR performance of the Company when compared with the FTSE All Share and FTSE General Retailers indices.
These have been selected to illustrate the Companys total shareholder return performance against a wide UK index and a sector specific index for the eight year period ended January 2017.
NEXT plc performance chart 2009-2017 Total Shareholder Return 820 740 660 580 500 420 340 260 180 100 20 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Re-based to 31 January 2009 100 NEXT FTSE General Retailers FTSE All Share Analysis of Chief Executives pay over 8 years The table below sets out the remuneration for Lord Wolfson who has been the Chief Executive throughout this period.
Financial year to January 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Single figure of total 2,833 3,010 4,106 4,630 4,646 4,660 4,295 1,842 remuneration 000 Annual bonus pay- 100% 100% 72% 99% 100% 100% 45% 0% out against maximum 1 opportunity LTIP pay-out against 100% 65% Two semiTwo semiTwo semiTwo semiTwo semiTwo semi- 2 maximum opportunity annual awards annual awards annual awards annual awards annual annual vested at vested at vested at vested at awards awards 100% and 96% and 100% each, 100% each, vested at vested at 83%, however 98%, however however however 76% and 61% and total value total value total value total value 77% 20% capped at capped at capped at capped at 2.5m 2.5m 2.5m 2.5m SMP pay-out against n a n a n a Entitlement Entitlement Did not 100% n a 3 3 maximum opportunity waived waived participate in 201215 SMP 1.
The maximum bonus for the Chief Executive is 150% of salary.
The first of semi-annual, rather than annual, awards vested in July 2011.
Lord Wolfson waived his entitlement to SMP awards in these years.
Had he not done so, his total remuneration would have been 8,947k for the financial year to January 2014 and 7,601k for the financial year to January 2013.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Change in remuneration of Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage changes in Lord Wolfsons remuneration i. e. salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2015 16 and 2016 17 compared with the percentage changes in the average of each of those components of pay for Group employees in the UK and Eire.
This group has been selected as the most appropriate comparator and represents over 87% of the Groups workforce.
Annual Taxable Salary bonus benefits % change % change % change Lord Wolfson 2.0% -100.0% 0.2% UK Eire Employees average per FTE 3.5% -32.8% 11.1% Relative importance of spend on pay The graph below illustrates for the years 2016 17 and 2015 16 the relative and actual spend on total remuneration paid to all employees of the Group together with other significant distributions and payments i. e. for share buybacks special dividends and ordinary dividends.
All employee remuneration compared with other disbursements 600.6m 594.6m 2016 17 2015 16 491.3m 275.9m 88.3m 340.6m 226.9m Special 225.8m Special dividends dividends 187.6m 150.7m Buybacks Buybacks Total wages and salaries Buybacks and Ordinary special dividends dividends Dilution of share capital by employee share plans The Company monitors and complies with dilution limits in its various share scheme rules and has not issued a significant number of new or treasury shares in satisfaction of share schemes in the last 10 years.
Share-based incentives are in most cases satisfied from shares purchased and held by the ESOT refer to Note 23 of the financial statements.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 83 slugline Remuneration Report Consideration of matters relating to directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors: Caroline Goodall Committee Chairman Steve Barber John Barton Jonathan Bewes from October 2016 Francis Salway Dame Dianne Thompson The Committee met seven times during the year under review and all meetings were fully attended.
Role of Remuneration Committee The Committee determines the remuneration of the Groups Chairman and executive directors, and reviews that of senior executives.
It is also responsible for determining the targets for performance-related pay schemes, approves any award of the Companys shares under share option or incentive schemes to employees, and oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures.
The Committee members have no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no director is permitted to be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is decided by the Chairman and executive directors of the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on request from the Company Secretary.
Assistance to the Committee During the period the Committee received input from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Aon Hewitt Ltd and FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT also provided independent external advice, including updates on legislative requirements, best practice, and other matters of a technical nature and related to share plans.
Aon Hewitt and FIT have no other connection with the Company and were appointed by the Committee based on their expertise in the relevant areas of interest.
Based on the nature of the advice, the relatively small fees and no other connection existing with these advisers, the Committee was satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
Aon Hewitt and FIT are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, the body that oversees the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK, and have confirmed to us that they adhere to its Code.
 LLP PwC provided independent verification services of total shareholder returns for NEXT and the comparator group of companies under the LTIP and other technical assistance.
During the year Aon Hewitt, FIT and PwC were each paid less than 26k for the services described above, charged at their standard hourly rates.
Voting outcomes at general meetings % of % Votes % Total votes shares on Votes Votes for for against against cast register withheld To approve the Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM 100,456,860 97.9 2,132,633 2.1 102,589,493 66.2 672,096 To approve the 2015 16 Remuneration Report 2016 AGM 102,705,670 97.6 2,558,066 2.4 105,263,736 70.4 56,641 84 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Service contracts Executive directors The Companys policy on notice periods and in relation to termination payments is set out in the policy table on page 67.
Apart from their service contracts, no director has had any material interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Non-executive directors Letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors do not contain fixed term periods: however, they are appointed in the expectation that they will serve for a minimum of six years, subject to satisfactory performance and reelection at Annual General Meetings.
Dates of appointment and notice periods for directors are set out below: Notice period Notice period Date of appointment where given by the where given by the to the Board Company employee Chairman John Barton 15 February 2002 12 months 6 months Deputy Chairman Chairman Designate Michael Roney 14 February 2017 12 months 6 months Executive directors Lord Wolfson 3 February 1997 12 months 6 months Amanda James 1 April 2015 12 months 6 months Michael Law 1 July 2013 12 months 6 months Jane Shields 1 July 2013 12 months 6 months Non-executive directors Steve Barber 1 June 2007 1 month 1 month Jonathan Bewes 3 October 2016 1 month 1 month Caroline Goodall 1 January 2013 1 month 1 month Francis Salway 1 June 2010 1 month 1 month Dame Dianne Thompson 1 January 2015 1 month 1 month Appointed Chairman 17 May 2006 On behalf of the Board Caroline Goodall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 March 2017 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 85 slugline
