Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 51 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chairmans Statement On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 28 January 2017, which sets out the future Directors Remuneration Policy intended to take eect from the close of the 2017 AGM, and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Our previous Policy was approved by a binding vote at the 2014 AGM and became eective for three years from the close of that meeting.
The future Policy will be subject to a binding vote and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2017 AGM.
I am delighted to report on the strong level of support received from shareholders, as evidenced by the voting outcome at the 2016 AGM.
The resolution seeking approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration was supported by over 99.8% of the votes cast.
Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys current remuneration framework continues to eectively support the delivery of our business strategy as set out in the Strategic Report on pages 01 to 35 and the creation of shareholder value.
Consequently, the Remuneration Committee has decided to make minor changes only to the Policy to take account of developments in best practice and to ensure that the Policy continues to provide sucient exibility to support potential changes to business needs over the next three years.
A summary of the minor changes to the Policy are set out on page 52.
2016 17 key decisions and pay outcomes The Remuneration Committee remains committed to a responsible approach to executive pay and believes that variable pay should only be earned for achievement against stretching performance targets.
As described in the Strategic Report, against challenging soft drinks market conditions, the Group delivered revenue for the year ended 28 January 2017 of 257.1m, a decrease of 0.6% on the prior year.
The UK soft drinks market grew by 1.2% in value over the same period of time.
Pre-tax profit increased by 4.4% on the prior year.
Against this background and taking into account executive directors performance against strategic objectives, an annual bonus of 23% was earned by R. A.
White and S. Lorimer and an annual bonus of 18% was earned by J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott.
Average EPS for the three years ended 28 January 2017 exceeded the average EPS for the three years preceding that period both being adjusted for Consumer Price Index by 15.6%.
As a result, the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in June 2014 vested at 40.02%.
Further details in relation to the annual bonus and LTIP vesting are included on pages 67 to 69.
Director remuneration for 2017 18 In line with the range of salary increases across the Group, an increase of 1.8% will be made to the executive directors base salaries with eect from 1 April 2017.
An increase of 1.8% will also be made to the Chairmans fee and the other non-executive directors basic fee with eect from 1 April 2017.
No changes are proposed to the annual bonus for the year ending 27 January 2018, with awards continuing to be subject to a combination of profit before tax and strategic performance measures.
Details of bonus award levels and performance measure weightings are provided on page 67.
Performance targets for these bonus awards will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year ending 27 January 2018.
No changes are proposed to the LTIP for the year ending 27 January 2018, with awards continuing to be subject to an EPS performance measure.
EPS is a key performance indicator for the Company and shareholders, and remains a highly credible measure of long term performance.
The EPS targets for the next LTIP awards are still to be determined given ongoing assessment of the anticipated impact of the new Soft Drinks Industry Levy which will inuence EPS during the vesting period.
Details of the LTIP awards, which will be subject to a maximum of 125% of salary, and the EPS targets will be disclosed at the time the LTIP awards are granted and in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee keeps long term performance metrics under review.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
David J. Ritchie Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 March 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 52 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the report sets out the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy which, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, shall take binding eect from the date of that meeting.
The Policy for the executive directors has been determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was first approved at the 2014 AGM.
No significant changes have been made to the Remuneration Policy.
Minor amendments have been made to ensure that the Remuneration Policy is appropriate for the next three years.
In summary the changes made to the proposed Remuneration Policy as compared to the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2014 AGM are as follows: Minimum shareholding guidelines: In line with best practice, the minimum shareholding guidelines are included in the Remuneration Policy.
Shareholding guidelines were previously included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Clawback: In line with best practice, clawback provisions in respect of annual bonus and LTIP awards are included in the Remuneration Policy.
Clawback provisions were previously included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension: The Companys maximum contribution under the URBS for R. A.
White has been redened for clarity.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Companys maximum contribution under the URBS for R. A.
White is consistent with the maximum contribution under the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2014 AGM.
Recruitment: The ability for the Company to pay appropriate relocation, travel and subsistence costs for newly appointed directors where necessary has been claried.
Executive directors The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the executive directors.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Core element Usually reviewed annually.
Although there is no Not applicable.
of xed overall maximum, salary remuneration, Salary levels are determined by the increases are normally reecting the Remuneration Committee taking into reviewed in the context size and scope account a range of factors including: of the salary increases of the role.
role, experience and individual across the wider Group.
performance: Purpose is to pay for other employees in the The Remuneration recruit and Group: Committee may award retain directors prevailing market conditions: and salary increases above of the calibre external benchmarks for similar this level to take required for roles at comparable companies.
account of individual the Company.
circumstances such as: increase in scope and responsibility: increase to reect the executive directors development and performance in the role: or alignment to market level.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 53 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benets Ensures the Executive directors receive benets Whilst the Remuneration Not applicable.
overall package in line with market practice, which Committee has not set is competitive.
may include, for example, a car an absolute maximum allowance or provision of a company on the levels of benets Purpose is to car, a biennial health check, private executive directors recruit and medical insurance, life assurance and receive, the value of the retain directors the ability to buy or sell holidays benefit is at a level which of the calibre under the Companys exible the Remuneration required for the benets plan.
appropriate against the Other benets may be provided market and provides based on individual circumstances.
sucient level of benefit These may include, for example, based on individual relocation and travel allowances.
Annual Rewards Awards based on annual Maximum bonus Targets are set annually bonus performance performance against key financial opportunity is 100% reecting the Companys against annual and or strategic targets and or the of base salary.
strategy and aligned with targets which delivery of personal objectives.
key financial, strategic and support the or individual objectives.
strategic Pay-out levels are determined direction of by the Remuneration Committee Targets, whilst stretching, do the Group.
after the year end based on not encourage inappropriate performance against those targets.
business risks to be taken.
The Remuneration Committee At least 80% of the bonus is has discretion to amend the bonus assessed against key financial pay-out if, in its judgement, any performance metrics of the formulaic output does not produce business and the balance may a fair result for either the executive be based on non-financial director or the Company, taking into strategic measures and or account overall business performance.
For up to two years following the Financial metrics determination of a bonus pay-out, There is no minimum the Remuneration Committee has payment at threshold the right to recover some or all performance, up to 50% of the bonus pay-out in the event of the maximum potential of a material misstatement of for this element of the the Groups financial results or bonus will be paid out for if the participant has been guilty on-target performance of misconduct.
and all of the maximum potential will be paid out for maximum performance.
Non-financial or individual metrics Payment of the non-financial or individual metrics will apply on a scale between 0% and 100% based on the Remuneration Committees assessment of the extent to which a non-financial or individual performance metric has been met.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 54 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re em mu un ne era rat ti io on R n Re ep po or rt t co cont ntiin nu ue ed d Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long Term Incentivises Under the LTIP, awards of conditional The normal maximum The vesting of awards is Incentive executive shares, nil cost share options or other award is 125% of annual subject to the satisfaction Plan 2014 directors over such form as has the same economic base salary in respect of performance targets LTIP the longer term eect may be made with vesting of a financial year.
Under set by the Remuneration and aligns their dependent on the achievement of the share plan rules the Committee.
interests performance conditions set by the overall maximum with those of Remuneration Committee, normally opportunity that may The performance measures shareholders.
over a three year performance period.
be granted in respect are reviewed regularly to Awards granted over shares may be of a financial year will ensure they remain relevant settled in cash at the election of the be 200% of annual base but will be based on key Remuneration Committee.
The normal financial and or strategic maximum award limit and or total shareholder As described on page 62, awards will only be exceeded return related measures.
may also vest in good leaver in exceptional The relevant metrics and circumstances or on the death circumstances involving the respective weightings of a participant or on a change the recruitment or may vary each year based of control.
retention of a senior upon Company strategic employee.
The Remuneration Committee do not include the value has the right to reduce unvested or of shares subject to any Performance measures unexercised awards and or delay their tax-advantaged option and weightings will be set vesting in the event of a material granted as part of an out in the Annual Report misstatement of the Groups financial ALTIP award.
on Remuneration for the results or if the participant has been relevant financial year.
For achievement of For up to two years following threshold performance the determination of the vesting 20% of the maximum outcome of an award, the opportunity will vest.
Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel the award if it has not There will usually be been exercised, or require repayment straight line vesting of some or all of the award in the between threshold and event of a material misstatement maximum performance.
of the Groups financial results or if the participant has been guilty Where a tax-advantaged of misconduct.
option is granted as part of an ALTIP award, the The Remuneration Committee may same performance make a dividend equivalent payment conditions will apply to the Dividend Equivalents to reect tax-advantaged option as dividends that would have been paid apply to the LTIP award.
over the period to vesting on shares that vest.
This payment may be in the form of additional shares or a cash payment equal to the value of those additional shares.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 55 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long Term The Remuneration Committee may Incentive at its discretion structure awards as Plan 2014 Approved Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP ALTIP awards comprising both continued a HMRC tax-advantaged option granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and an LTIP award.
ALTIP awards enable the participant and Company to benefit from HMRC tax-advantaged option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
ALTIP awards would be structured as a tax-advantaged option and a LTIP award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the taxadvantaged option.
Other than to enable the grant of ALTIP awards, the Company will not grant awards to executive directors under the ESOS.
All To encourage all Executive directors are entitled Participation limits are No performance conditions employee employees to to participate in a HMRC taxthose set by the UK tax are attached to awards in share make a longadvantaged all-employee Savings authorities from time line with HMRC practice.
schemes term investment Related Share Option Scheme to time.
in the SAYE under which they make Companys monthly savings over a period shares in a tax of three or five years linked to ecient way.
the grant of an option over the Companys shares with an option price which can be at a discount to the market value of shares on grant.
Executive directors are also entitled to participate in a HMRC taxadvantaged All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
The executive directors may participate in both sections of the AESOP, being the partnership and matching section and the free share section.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 56 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Retirement Purpose is to Executive directors are eligible to R. A.
White ceased his Not applicable.
benets recruit and participate in the A. G. BARR p. l. c. accrual under the retain directors 2008 Pension and Life Assurance dened benefit section of the calibre Scheme the Scheme, which on 5 April 2011.
For R. A. required for the comprises a dened contribution White, the Companys Company.
section and a dened benefit maximum contribution section.
The dened benefit under the URBS is equal Provides market section was closed to new to 26% of salary plus any competitive entrants from 14 August 2003 and contractual entitlement post-employment to future accrual from 1 May 2016. in respect of a shortfall benets or in R. A.
Whites deferred cash allowance Details of the entitlements accruing pension revaluation as a equivalent.
to the two executive directors who consequence of Fixed are deferred members of the dened Protection 2012. benefit section are detailed in the table on page 70.
The contributions The maximum combined paid to the dened contribution Company contribution section in respect of three executive under the dened directors are disclosed on pages 69 contribution section and and 70.
Details of accruals under the the URBS in respect of URBS are disclosed on page 71. the remaining executive directors is 19% of salary Executive directors may participate as dened in the in the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Unfunded Scheme rules rising Retirement benefit Scheme to 26% of salary URBS with the agreement of the following the executives Company.
The URBS was established 50th birthday.
to satisfy the Companys contractual obligations to provide retirement The Remuneration benets for the benefit of the Committee has executive directors where either the discretion to vary the annual or lifetime allowance has been delivery mechanism for exceeded whilst those individuals retirement benets, were members of the Scheme.
however the exercise of this discretion will Benets will be receivable in not exceed the above certain circumstances, including limits for the provision on retirement, death, change of executive directors of control or cessation of retirement benets.
employment in accordance with the rules of the URBS.
The Company has closed the dened benefit In appropriate circumstances, section of the Scheme executive directors may take to new members but the a cash supplement instead of two executive directors contributions into a pension plan.
who are deferred members will continue to receive benets in accordance with the terms of the Scheme, subject to separately agreed contractual arrangements, including those summarised below: A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 57 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Retirement R. A.
Whites deferred benets pension will be re-valued continued in line with RPI until his normal retirement date.
White will continue to be entitled to receive life assurance benets as if he were in pensionable service under the Scheme until his normal retirement date notwithstanding the termination of his employment with the Company, but only in circumstances where he is a good leaver, as set out in his service contract.
A. L. Memmotts accrued benets retain a link to his final pensionable salary.
Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out an overview of the remuneration of non-executive directors: Purpose and link to strategy Approach of the Company Sole element of non-executive Fees are normally reviewed annually.
director remuneration, set at a level that reects market The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
conditions and is sucient Fees are set at a level which reects the skill, knowledge and experience of the individual, to attract individuals with whilst taking into account appropriate market data.
The Board is responsible for setting the fees of the other non-executive directors.
Fees may include a basic fee and additional fees for further responsibilities for example, chairmanship of board committees and senior independent directorship.
Fees are set taking into account several factors, including the size and complexity of the business, appropriate market data and the expected time commitment and contribution for the role.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys share schemes or bonus schemes nor do they receive any pension contributions.
Non-executive directors may be eligible to receive benets such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs or other benets that may be appropriate.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Directors annual remuneration report for the relevant financial year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 58 Directors Remuneration Report continued Explanation of performance metrics chosen and the target setting process Performance measures are selected that are aligned to the Companys strategy.
Stretching performance targets are set each year for the annual bonus and LTIP awards.
When setting these performance targets, the Remuneration Committee will take into account a number of dierent reference points, which may include the Companys business plans and strategy and the market environment.
Full payment or vesting will only occur for what the Remuneration Committee considers to be stretching performance.
The annual bonus performance targets have been selected to provide an appropriate balance between incentivising directors to meet financial targets for the year and achieving strategic and or personal objectives.
The LTIP performance targets reect the Companys strategic objectives and therefore the financial and strategic decisions which ultimately determine the success of the Company.
The LTIP performance measures may be based on key financial and or strategic and or total shareholder return related measures.
LTIP performance is currently based solely on Earnings Per Share, which is a key measure of the Companys profitability.
The Remuneration Committee retains the ability to adjust or set dierent performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or a divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Remuneration Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
Awards and options may be adjusted in the event of a variation of share capital in accordance with the scheme rules.
Policy for the remuneration of employees generally Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based on the same principle that reward should be achieved for delivery of the business strategy and should be sucient to attract and retain high calibre talent.
Under the rules of the ESOS and the LTIP, certain managers are eligible to participate in the ESOS and the LTIP: however there has been no such participation to date and there is no current intention to invite managers to do so.
The annual bonus arrangements for the senior management team are similar to those for the executive directors in that targets are set annually dependent on financial and or non-financial performance metrics.
The key principles of the remuneration philosophy are applied consistently across the Group below this level, taking account of the seniority of employees.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The policy aims to facilitate the appointment of individuals of sucient calibre to lead the business and execute the strategy eectively for the benefit of shareholders.
When appointing a new director, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and in line with market practice.
The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration a number of relevant factors, which may include the calibre of the individual, the candidates existing remuneration package, and the specic circumstances of the individual including the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 59 The Remuneration Committee will typically seek to align the remuneration package with the Companys Remuneration Policy as set out in the policy table.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buy-out awards referred to below is 300% of salary in line with this policy.
Subject to this overall maximum variable remuneration, incentive awards will only be granted above the normal maximum annual award opportunities where the Remuneration Committee considers there to be a commercial rationale, which may include but is not limited to circumstances where an executive director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus and or LTIP award for that year as there would not be sucient time to assess performance.
The quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis.
The Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance targets and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not achieved.
The Remuneration Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period of the bonus and or LTIP award, if the Remuneration Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale would be clearly explained in the Directors Remuneration Report following grant.
The individual will move over time onto a remuneration package that is consistent with the normal maximum annual bonus and LTIP award opportunities set out in the policy table.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to include other remuneration components or awards which are outside the specic terms of the policy but subject to the limit on variable remuneration to facilitate the hiring of candidates of an appropriate calibre, where the Remuneration Committee believes there is a need to do so in the best interests of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee would ensure that awards within the 300% of salary variable remuneration limit are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures.
The Remuneration Committee will not use this discretion to make a non-performance related incentive payment for example a golden hello.
In some circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make payments or awards to recognise or buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Remuneration Committee will normally aim to do so broadly on a like-for-like basis, taking into account a number of relevant factors regarding the forfeited arrangements which may include the form of award, any performance conditions attached to the awards and the time at which they would have vested.
These payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above, however the Remuneration Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
Where considered appropriate, such payments or awards will be liable to malus and or clawback on early departure.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share plans.
If necessary, and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as currently permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director.
Where a position is fullled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to the original terms.
Where necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation, travel and subsistence costs.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 60 Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The charts below set out an illustration of the Remuneration Policy for 2017 18 in line with the Remuneration Policy above and include base salary, pension, benets and incentives.
The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the Remuneration Policy and the value of each component.
White total remuneration 000 S. Lorimer total remuneration 000 1,618.3 35% 28% 939.6 942.8 35% 12% 24% 600.2 541.7 28% 100% 64% 37% 12% 25% 341.2 100% 63% 37% Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum performance in line with expectations performance performance in line with expectations performance J. D. Kemp total remuneration 000 A. L. Memmott total remuneration 000 839.3 764.8 35% 35% 483.3 28% 447.8 12% 28% 12% 25% 305.4 24% 289.3 63% 100% 37% 100% 64% 37% Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum performance in line with expectations performance performance in line with expectations performance Base salary, benets and pension Annual bonus LTIP A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 61 Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Minimum performance Fixed elements of No bonus.
remuneration base salary, Performance in line with 50% of salary awarded 20% of maximum award benets and pension only.
expectations for achieving target vesting i. e. 25% of salary performance.
for achieving target Base salary is the latest performance.
known salary i. e. the salary Maximum performance 100% of salary awarded 100% of maximum award eective from 1 April 2017 for achieving maximum vesting i. e. 125% of salary and the value for benets performance.
for achieving maximum has been calculated as per performance.
the single gure table on page 64.
LTIP awards are included in the scenarios above at face value with no share price movement included.
Service contracts Executive directors contracts are on a rolling basis and may be terminated on 12 months notice by the Company or on 6 months notice by the executive.
Service contracts for new directors will generally be limited to 12 months notice by the Company.
In line with the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2014 AGM, service contracts entered into prior to this date provide for a notice period of 12 months except during the six months following either a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction.
Under these conditions and certain circumstances the executive directors are entitled to a liquidated damages payment equal to the executive directors basic salary at termination plus the value of all contractual benets for a two year period.
In the event this liquidated damages payment is triggered, the executive director will also be deemed to be a good leaver for the purposes of the Companys share schemes.
Given the size of the Company and the sector dynamics at the time the directors were recruited, the Remuneration Committee considered this provision appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the fact that these provisions do not reect best practice.
It has therefore previously considered the alternatives available to exit these contractual arrangements, including contractual buy-out.
However, the Remuneration Committee concluded that it was not feasible to place a value on these rights, in order to remove them from the contracts, which would be acceptable to both parties.
It therefore determined that the most appropriate approach would be to maintain the legacy provisions, however for all future appointments after the approval of the 2014 Remuneration Policy these provisions have not and will not apply.
S. Lorimers service contract does not therefore include the legacy provisions.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders in accordance with the Code.
Their appointments are terminable by either the Company or the directors themselves upon three months notice without compensation.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 62 Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments for loss of oce The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of oce will be approached are set out below: Policy Payment in lieu of notice Payments to executive directors upon termination of their service contracts will be equal to 12 months base salary or the highest annual rate earned by the executive during the preceding three years, whichever is higher plus benets in kind and pension contributions at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Annual Bonus This will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee on an individual basis and the decision as to whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors, including the circumstances of the individuals departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus amounts paid will typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and will, subject to performance, be paid at the usual time.
LTIP The extent to which any award under the LTIP will vest would be determined based on the leaver provisions contained within the LTIP rules.
The Remuneration Committee shall determine when awards vest in accordance with those provisions.
Awards will normally lapse if the participant leaves employment before vesting.
However, awards may vest in good leaver circumstances, including death, disability, ill-health, injury, sale of the participants employer, or any other reason determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Any good leaver awards will vest at the date of cessation of employment unless the Remuneration Committee decides they should vest at the normal vesting date.
In either case, the extent to which an award vests will be determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from the date of grant to the date of cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee may vest the award on any other basis if it believes there are exceptional circumstances which warrant that.
Options are exercisable for six months from leaving employment or six months from the normal vesting date as appropriate.
Change of control Awards under the LTIP will generally vest early on a takeover, merger or other corporate reorganisation.
The Remuneration Committee will determine the level of vesting taking account of performance conditions and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for time, where applicable.
Alternatively, participants may be allowed or required to exchange their awards for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Awards under all employee share schemes will be expected to vest on a change of control and those which have to meet specic requirements to benefit from permitted tax benets will vest in accordance with those requirements.
Mitigation The executive directors service contracts do not provide for any reduction in payments for mitigation or for early payment.
Other payments Payments may be made under the Companys all employee share plans which are governed by HMRC tax-advantaged plan rules and which cover certain leaver provisions.
There is no discretionary treatment of leavers under these plans.
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday, outplacement and legal fees.
Where a buy-out award is made under the Listing Rules then the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 63 The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors oce or employment.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will recognise and balance the interests of shareholders and the departing executive director, as well as the interests of the remaining directors.
Where the Remuneration Committee retains discretion it will be used to provide exibility in certain situations, taking into account the particular circumstances of the directors departure and performance.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when considering the executive directors remuneration.
When considering base salary increases, the Remuneration Committee reviews overall levels of base pay increases oered to other employees.
Employees are not actively consulted on directors remuneration.
The Company has regular contact with union bodies on matters of pay and remuneration for employees covered by collective bargaining or consultation arrangements.
Existing contractual arrangements The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of oce outside the policy in this report: where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into eect: where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Company: or to satisfy contractual commitments under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, the term payments includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy which do not have a material advantage to directors, to aid in its operation or implementation, taking into account the interests of shareholders but without the need to seek shareholder approval.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on executive and non-executive directors remuneration.
Shareholder guidelines In order to further align the executive directors long term interests with those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has updated its share ownership guidelines applicable from 2017 18.
The guidelines require that, with eect from 2017 18, executive directors retain all shares acquired under Company sponsored share plans and retain half of any bonus pay-out after tax to purchase shares in the Company until the value of their shareholding is equal to 125% of gross basic salary.
Until this shareholding is acquired, the executive directors may not, without Remuneration Committee approval, sell shares other than to finance any tax liabilities arising from the vesting of LTIP awards.
Payments in relation to existing remuneration arrangements The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of oce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i. before the date of the 2014 AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy came into eect : ii.
after the date of the 2014 AGM and before the Remuneration Policy set out above came into eect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii.
at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 64 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual report on remuneration The following parts of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit, other than the elements explaining the application of the Remuneration Policy for 2017 18.
Single gure table audited information The aggregate remuneration provided to directors who have served as directors in the year ended 28 January 2017 is set out below, along with the aggregate remuneration provided to such directors for the year ended 30 January 2016.
Year ended 28 January 2017 Long term Total Salary fees Benets Bonus incentives Pension remuneration Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive R. A.
No other long term incentive schemes were in place for the year to 28 January 2017.
D. J. Ritchie was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2015.
The long term incentives gure for the year ended 30 January 2016 has been restated to reect the market value of the shares that vested on 9 April 2016 as at that date.
The long term incentives gure for the year ended 30 January 2016 set out in the Annual Report 2015 16 used the average closing share price for the three months ended 30 January 2016 as an estimate of the market value of those shares.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 65 The gures in the single gure table above are derived from the following: a Salary and fees The amount of salary fees received in the year.
A salary sacrifice arrangement is operated by the Company.
Employees who join this arrangement no longer pay contributions to the pension schemes but receive a lower taxable salary.
Directors salaries are shown gross of salary sacrifice pension contributions.
b Benets The value of benets received in the year.
These include car allowance, fuel benefit, the value of SAYE options vesting in the year, and AESOP free and matching shares awarded in the year.
SAYE: option shares are valued at the market price of the option shares at the date of vesting less the option exercise price.
AESOP: free and matching shares are valued at market value at the date of award.
Details of the executive directors interests in the SAYE are set out on page 76. c Bonus A description of the annual bonus in respect of the year and Group performance against which the bonus pay-out was determined is provided on page 67. d Long term incentives The value of LTIP awards that vest in respect of the year.
LTIP: the shares which will vest in respect of the year have been valued based on the average market value of the shares over the three month period ended 28 January 2017.
The value of the shares which vested in respect of the prior year was the market value of the shares on the vesting date.
Details of the executive directors interests in the LTIP are set out on page 75. e Pension The pension gure includes: for individuals in the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme dened contribution section, the Companys contributions to the dened contribution section, excluding any pension contributions made in respect of an individual under the Companys salary sacrifice arrangement: for individuals in the Schemes dened benefit section, the additional value achieved in the year calculated using the HMRC method using a multiplier of 20 : and the value of the accrued liability for the year in respect of the Companys contribution for each director participating in the URBS.
Further details of pension benets are set out on pages 69 to 71.
Individual elements of remuneration Base salary and fees Base salaries for individual executive directors for the year ended 28 January 2017 and for the following year are set out in the table below: Base salary for Base salary for year ended year ending 28 January 2017 27 January 2018 Increase Executive director 000 000 % R. A.
White 443 451 1.8% S. Lorimer 262 267 1.8% J. D. Kemp 232 237 1.8% A. L. Memmott 207 211 1.8% A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 66 Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of non-executive directors fees for the year ended 28 January 2017 and for the following year are set out in the table below: Year ended Year ending 28 January 2017 27 January 2018 Increase Non-executive director fee 000 000 % Chairman of the Company 137 139 1.8% Basic fee 46 47 1.8% Additional fee for chairing Audit Committee 8 8 0% Additional fee for chairing Remuneration Committee 8 8 0% Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 2 2 0% Benets audited information The benets gure for each of the executive directors is detailed as follows: Year ended 28 January 2017 Car and fuel AESOP benefit SAYE awards Total Executive Director 000 000 000 000 R. A.
White 26 4 30 S. Lorimer 19 4 23 J. D. Kemp 19 4 23 A. L. Memmott 19 4 23 Total 83 16 99 Year ended 30 January 2016 Car and fuel AESOP benefit SAYE awards Total Executive Director 000 000 000 000 R. A.
White 26 11 4 41 S. Lorimer 19 19 J. D. Kemp 19 13 4 36 A. L. Memmott 19 11 4 34 Total 83 35 12 130 The value of the AESOP awards are the sum of the AESOP free and matching shares awarded to the directors in the year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 67 Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus award opportunity for each executive director in respect of the year ended 28 January 2017 was 100% of salary, with 80% of the bonus assessed against the achievement of profit before tax, excluding exceptional items, compared against a set of profit targets including a threshold and maximum level, and 20% based on non-financial strategic measures.
The executive directors earned a total of 241,000 as annual bonus for the year, representing 23% of R. A.
Whites and S. Lorimers salary and 18% of J. D. Kemps and A. L. Memmotts salary.
The target for the proportion of the annual bonus based on profit before tax and performance against that target is set out in the table below.
50% of this element of the bonus could be earned for on-target performance with zero paid for threshold performance and a linear scale through to full payment of this element of the bonus for performance at or above the maximum target.
Maximum Actual Threshold Maximum Actual percentage of percentage of target On target target performance bonus bonus profit before tax excluding exceptional items 42.0m 44.0m 46.0m 42.4m 80% 8% Non-financial strategic measure targets were set around the Companys key areas of strategic focus.
White, these targets focused on business reaction to the Soft Drinks Industry Levy, brand innovation and distribution, plus leading the significant change programmes in the year.
Following strong progress across these targets, the Remuneration Committee considered it appropriate to pay a bonus equal to 15% of salary to R. A.
For the other executive directors, their nonfinancial strategic measure targets focused on areas including optimisation of the new Business Process Redesign systems launched in the second half of 2015, brand innovation, enhanced operational eectiveness, improved supply chain eciency and further development of the Groups governance and reporting processes.
The Remuneration Committee assessed progress against the strategic targets for each of the other executive directors and considered it appropriate to pay a bonus of 15% of salary to S. Lorimer and 10% of salary to J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott.
Annual bonus for 2017 18 For the 2017 18 financial year, an element of the annual bonus 20% of basic salary will continue to be assessed against strategic measures to align the reward structure with key strategic priorities and to encourage behaviours which facilitate profitable growth and the future development of the business.
The remainder of the annual bonus will continue to be assessed against growth in Group profit before tax.
Performance targets will be set at challenging levels in a similar manner to those of previous years, with 50% of this element of the annual bonus being earned for on-target performance.
The actual performance targets are not disclosed as they are considered to be commercially sensitive at this time and should therefore remain condential to the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to disclose how the bonus earned relates to performance against the targets on a retrospective basis.
No changes are proposed to the maximum annual bonus opportunity which will remain at 100% of salary.
Long term incentives audited information Awards vesting in respect of the financial period LTIP awards granted in June 2014 were subject to the achievement of an average EPS growth performance condition over a three year period ended 28 January 2017.
Threshold Maximum vesting at 20% vesting at 100% % linked to of the maximum of the maximum award award award Three year average EPS growth in excess of CPI 100% 10% 32.5% There is straight-line vesting between the points and no reward below threshold performance.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 68 Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of LTIP awards vesting in respect of the financial period are set out below: Year ended 28 January 2017 Total shares Award rate Shares awarded Share price LTIP value Executive Director Number % Number 000 R. A.
The long term incentives gure for the year ended 28 January 2017 has been valued using the average closing share price for the three months ended 28 January 2017 as an estimate of the value of the incentive as the actual value of the award will not be nalised until the closing share price is known when the incentive vests in June 2017.
With the exception of S. Lorimer, executive directors were granted ESOS awards in the form of market value options under the HMRC tax-ecient section of the ESOS.
These ESOS awards were subject to the same performance measures as the LTIP awards and therefore 1,914 of the 4,784 ESOS awards granted will vest for each of the executive directors.
If the ESOS awards are exercised at a gain then the LTIP awards will be scaled back to the same value to ensure that the total pre-tax value delivered to participants remains unchanged.
Year ended 30 January 2016 Share price at Total shares Award rate Shares awarded vesting LTIP value Executive Director Number % Number 000 R. A.
Awards granted during the financial period During the year ended 28 January 2017 the following LTIP awards were granted equating to 125% of salary.
% of award Market value vesting at Performance Number of at grant threshold period Executive Director Type of award shares 000 % Years R. A.
White LTIP award 105,636 557 20.0 3 LTIP award 62,416 329 20.0 3 S. Lorimer ESOS award 5,703 30 20.0 3 J. D. Kemp LTIP award 55,394 292 20.0 3 A. L. Memmott LTIP award 49,339 260 20.0 3 ESOS awards were granted in the form of market value options under the HMRC tax-ecient section of the ESOS and are subject to the same performance measures as apply to the LTIP awards.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 69 The LTIP awards are subject to the following EPS performance measure: Threshold Maximum vesting at 20% vesting at 100% % linked to of the maximum of the maximum award award award Cumulative EPS for 2016 17, 2017 18 and 2018 19 100% 90p 100.5p There is straight-line vesting between the points and no reward below threshold performance.
The salary used in the calculation of the award is the individual directors salary at 1 April 2016.
Long term incentives for 2017 18 LTIP awards granted in 2017 will be subject to cumulative EPS performance for 2017 18, 2018 19 and 2019 20.
20% of the maximum award will vest for achieving threshold performance and 100% of the maximum award will vest for achieving maximum performance.
There will be straight-line vesting between the points and no vesting below threshold performance.
The EPS targets for these LTIP awards are still to be determined given ongoing assessment of the anticipated impact of the new Soft Drinks Industry Levy which will inuence EPS during the vesting period.
Details of the LTIP awards and the EPS targets will be disclosed at the time the LTIP awards are granted and in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Awards made to the executive directors in 2017 will be subject to a maximum of 125% of salary.
Total pension entitlements audited information Executive directors are all members of the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme has a dened benefit section and a dened contribution section.
The dened benefit section was closed to new entrants from 14 August 2003 and to future accrual from 1 May 2016.
White and A. L. Memmott are members of the dened benefit section.
Company contributions which exclude any pension contributions made in respect of an individual under the Companys salary sacrifice arrangement are detailed in the following table: Year ended 28 January 2017 Dened Dened Investment benefit contribution URBS return on URBS Total Director 000 000 000 000 000 R. A.
White 29 130 2 157 S. Lorimer 10 46 56 J. D. Kemp 10 40 50 A. L. Memmott 19 10 47 76 Total 48 30 263 2 339 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 70 Directors Remuneration Report continued Year ended 30 January 2016 Dened Dened Investment benefit contribution URBS return on URBS Total Director 000 000 000 000 000 R. A.
White 149 63 212 S. Lorimer 28 20 48 J. D. Kemp 26 16 2 44 A. L. Memmott 15 25 13 1 54 Total 15 79 198 66 358 The URBS is the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Unfunded Retirement benefit Scheme for executive directors.
Please see below for further details.
Details of the entitlements accruing to the two directors who are deferred members of the dened benefit section are detailed in the table below: Accrued pension at 28 January 2017 Normal 000 Retirement Age R. A.
White 68 63 A. L. Memmott 46 63 The normal retirement age specified in the Scheme rules for R. A.
White and A. L. Memmott is age 63, however both are also entitled under the Scheme rules to retire at age 60 without an actuarial reduction to their pension benets and without any consent required.
Early retirement can be taken at age 55 subject to Company consent.
The accrued pension would be reduced relative to age 60 to take account of its early payment.
White ceased his accrual under the dened benefit plan on 5 April 2011.
Under the terms of his service contract, R. A.
White is entitled to re-valuation of his deferred benets in line with RPI until his normal retirement date.
The rules of the Scheme provide for revaluation increases in deferment in line with CPI.
White elected for Fixed Protection 2012 to protect his benets accrued under the Scheme.
White to continue to benefit from Fixed Protection 2012, his deferred benets are revalued in line with CPI and, to the extent that RPI exceeds CPI in any year, a corresponding additional contribution is made to his URBS.
In the year ended 28 January 2017 this has resulted in an additional accrual of 14,680 being included in R. A.
Whites URBS for that year and forms part of the 130,000 URBS gure included in the pension table above.
White will continue to be entitled to receive life assurance benets as if he were in pensionable service under the Scheme until his normal retirement date notwithstanding the termination of his employment with the Company, but only in circumstances where he is a good leaver.
A. L. Memmott ceased his accrual under the dened benefit plan on 1 March 2008.
His accrued benets retain a link to his final pensionable salary.
Dependants of the executive directors are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
Where the Scheme provides a pension on a dened benefit basis, final pensionable salary is used to determine the directors pension entitlement.
Where benets are provided on a dened contribution basis, the benets depend on the directors accumulated fund.
Lump sum life assurance cover is provided at four or eight times pensionable salary dependent upon the date of joining the Scheme.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 71 The Company paid contributions to the dened contribution section of the Scheme during the year in respect of J. D. Kemp, A. L. Memmott and S. Lorimer.
These are shown in the Dened Contribution column in the total pension entitlements table above.
During the year ended 28 January 2017, R. A.
White, J. D. Kemp, A. L. Memmott and S. Lorimer participated in the A. G. BARR p. l. c. Unfunded Retirement benefit Scheme URBS with the agreement of the Company.
The URBS was approved by the Remuneration Committee and is an unfunded employer nanced retirement benets scheme.
It was established to satisfy the Companys contractual obligations to provide retirement benets for the benefit of the executive directors.
The maximum Company contribution under the URBS in respect of R. A.
The maximum combined Company contribution under the dened contribution section of the Scheme and the URBS in respect of the remaining executive directors is 19% of salary or 26% of salary following the executives 50th birthday.
The URBS gure for the directors represents a Company contribution only.
An accrued liability of 1,317,323 2015 16: 982,272 is included in the closing balance sheet for the URBS.
The liability has been accrued in respect of the directors as follows: Accrual at Accrual at 28 January 2017 30 January 2016 Executive Director R. A.
White 1,068,701 900,972 S. Lorimer 79,057 20,312 J. D. Kemp 87,135 35,998 A. L. Memmott 82,430 24,990 Total URBS liability 1,317,323 982,272 Payments to past directors There were no payments made to past directors during the year in respect of services provided to the Company as a director.
Payments for loss of oce No payments for loss of oce were made during the year.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information The Remuneration Committee has updated its share ownership guidelines applicable from 2017 18 and these are disclosed in the Remuneration Policy on page 63.
Prior to 2017 18, executive directors were required to retain all shares acquired under Company sponsored share plans until the value of their shareholding is equal to 100% of gross basic salary.
White, J. D. Kemp and A. L. Memmott met the 100% of gross basic salary requirement applicable for the year ended 28 January 2017.
S. Lorimer was appointed to the Board on 5 January 2015 and is to build up a shareholding equal to 100% of his gross basic salary.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 72 Directors Remuneration Report continued The interests of each executive director of the Company as at 28 January 2017 including those held by their connected persons were as set out below.
Unvested Vested but Exercised unexercised Subject to Not subject to Total as at Owned during the during the performance performance 28 January Director Type outright year year conditions conditions 2017 Executive R. A.
White Shares 372,755 372,755 LTIP shares 28,662 278,569 278,569 ESOS shares 4,784 4,784 SAYE options 4,771 4,771 AESOP free shares 701 AESOP matching shares 116 492 492 S. Lorimer Shares 4,294 4,294 LTIP shares 3,850 135,078 135,078 ESOS shares 5,703 SAYE options 4,232 4,232 AESOP free shares 701 AESOP matching shares 117 135 135 Shares non-beneficial holding 1,032,233 J. D. Kemp Shares 151,249 151,249 ESOS shares 4,784 4,784 LTIP shares 15,030 146,077 146,077 SAYE options 4,564 4,564 AESOP free shares 701 AESOP matching shares 116 492 492 A. L. Memmott Shares 115,602 115,602 LTIP shares 13,387 130,109 130,109 ESOS shares 4,784 4,784 SAYE options 4,771 4,771 AESOP free shares 701 AESOP matching shares 116 494 494 Non-executive W. R. G. Barr Shares 12,468,965 12,468,965 Shares non-beneficial holding 10,128,708 M. A. Griths Shares 5,400 5,400 J. R. Nicolson Shares 5,500 5,500 P. Powell Shares D. J. Ritchie Shares 1,000 1,000 S. Lorimers non-beneficial shareholding represents his position as director of Robert Barr Ltd, the trustee of various employee benefit trusts.
W. R. G. Barrs non-beneficial shareholding represents his position as trustee of various family and charitable trusts.
The Owned outright shares set out in the table above are the shares owned outright by the directors.
These include any AESOP free shares awarded during the year and any shares retained during the year following the exercise of LTIP awards.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 73 The number of AESOP free shares awarded and share options exercised under the LTIP in the year are included in the Exercised during the year column.
The following sections of the Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
Performance graph and table The graph below shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over the past eight years.
In the opinion of the Board, the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Company should be measured because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent member.
Investment Trusts CEO remuneration for previous eight years The table below shows details of the total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP paid out for R. A.
White over the last eight financial years.
Annual bonus as LTIP as a % of Total a % of maximum maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 % % Year ended 28 January 2017 915 23.0% 40.02% Year ended 30 January 2016 839 0% 37.89% Year ended 25 January 2015 1,075 75.5% 31.9% Year ended 26 January 2014 989 57.8% 38.2% Year ended 26 January 2013 1,086 50.0% 68.5% Year ended 28 January 2012 1,070 46.0% 99.3% Year ended 29 January 2011 1,204 75.0% 92.9% Year ended 30 January 2010 951 73.4% 45.0% Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below sets out, in relation to salary, taxable benets car allowance, fuel benefit and AESOP awards only and annual bonus, the increase between the pay for the year ended 30 January 2016 and the pay for the year ended 28 January 2017 for R. A.
White compared to the wider workforce.
For these purposes, the wider workforce includes all Group employees who were continuously employed by the Group during the two years ended 28 January 2017 but excludes executive and non-executive directors.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 74 Directors Remuneration Report continued Wider Percentage change CEO workforce Salary 2.1% 2.3% Benets 0.0% 7.3% Annual bonus N a N a No annual bonus was paid out in respect of the year ended 30 January 2016.
This has meant that there is no comparative gure against which an increase can be measured.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and the overall expenditure on pay as a whole across the organisation.
Year ended Year ended 30 January 2016 28 January 2017 000 000 % change Dividends 15,565 16,815 8.0% Overall expenditure on pay 43,600 35,500 18.6 % Dividends payable in respect of the year ended 30 January 2016.
Dividends payable in respect of the year ended 28 January 2017.
Overall expenditure on pay for the year ended 28 January 2017 includes the eect of the closure of the dened benefit pension scheme to future accrual on 1 May 2016 and the subsequent reduction in pension costs for the remainder of the year.
A full breakdown of sta costs for the Group for the year can be found in note 4 to the accounts.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors Remuneration The following directors were members of the Remuneration Committee during the year: D. J. Ritchie Chairman, W. R. G. Barr, M. A. Griths, J. R. Nicolson and P. Powell.
The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year and is responsible for determining, within agreed terms of reference, all aspects of the remuneration of the executive directors and such other members of senior management as it is designated to consider.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the remuneration trends, pay levels and employment conditions across the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for recommending the remuneration of the Chairman of the Company to the Board.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from R. A.
White CEO in respect of the remuneration of the other executive directors, who was not in attendance when his own remuneration was being discussed.
The Remuneration Committee received assistance from J.
A. Barr Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to the Committee, and from other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
External adviser During the year, the Remuneration Committee was assisted in its work by the following external consultant: Fees paid by the Company for Other services provided to the Services provided advice to the Remuneration Company in the year ended Adviser Details of appointment by the Adviser Committee and basis of charge 28 January 2017 Deloitte LLP Deloitte Appointed by Review of LTIP metrics 20,100 Share schemes advice.
the Remuneration and calibration of Committee in performance targets.
Charged on a time cost Consulting services January 2014 basis or xed fee in relation to the following a competitive Assistance with the dependent on nature implementation of the tender process.
preparation of the of project.
Enterprise Resource Directors Remuneration Planning system and Policy and Annual Report Business Process on Remuneration.
Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 75 The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that all advice received was objective and independent.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at last AGM The following table sets out actual voting in respect of the resolutions to approve the 2015 16 Annual Report on Remuneration at the Companys AGM on 1 June 2016 and the 2013 14 Remuneration Policy at the Companys AGM on 27 May 2014.
Resolution Votes for % of vote Votes against % of vote Votes withheld Approve 2015 16 Annual Report on Remuneration 73,218,572 99.88 88,075 0.12 2,353,086 Approve 2013 14 Remuneration Policy 73,348,375 96.83 2,401,469 3.17 34,666 Additional information Executive directors interests in the LTIP The individual interests of the executive directors under the LTIP are as follows: At At 30 January 28 January 2016 Awarded Vested Lapsed 2017 LTIP Director Date of award Number Number Number Number Number Exercisable from R. A.
White 03 June 2014 4,784 4,784 03 June 2017 S. Lorimer 07 April 2016 5,703 5,703 07 April 2019 J. D. Kemp 03 June 2014 4,784 4,784 03 June 2017 A. L. Memmott 03 June 2014 4,784 4,784 03 June 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 76 Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive directors interests in the SAYE The individual interests of the executive directors under the SAYE scheme are as follows: At At 30 January 28 January Option 2016 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2017 price SAYE Director Number Number Number Number Number Pence Exercisable from R. A.
White 1,089 1,089 358 01 January 2018 3,682 3,682 567 01 October 2020 S. Lorimer 4,232 4,232 567 01 October 2020 J. D. Kemp 670 670 358 01 January 2018 3,894 3,894 567 01 October 2020 A. L. Memmott 1,089 1,089 358 01 January 2018 3,682 3,682 567 01 October 2020 AESOP free shares The following free share awards were made to the executive directors under the AESOP scheme: Share price At At on date of 30 January Shares Shares Shares 28 January Value Date of award award 2016 awarded vested lapsed 2017 vested and vesting date Pence Number Number Number Number Number 000 R. A.
White 15 June 2016 513 701 701 4 S. Lorimer 15 June 2016 513 701 701 4 A. L. Memmott 15 June 2016 513 701 701 4 J. D. Kemp 15 June 2016 513 701 701 4 Approval This Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: David J. Ritchie Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 March 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
