Governance Directors remuneration report Statement from the Chairman of the Board Report on remuneration implementation I am pleased to introduce the Remuneration Report for the Although the Company is not subject to the laws of England and financial year from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.
Wales, this report is prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts Developments during the year and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
As further described in the Chairmans statement on page 2, during the year: The Directors have chosen not to include a chart of Total Shareholder Return, which is required by paragraph 18 of Shareholders approved the expansion of the Companys Schedule 8, as they are voluntarily adopting the Regulations.
investment policy to permit it to make life science investments in addition to its existing commitment to the CRT Pioneer Fund.
Directors emoluments As part of this transaction, the Company acquired Syncona For the year ended 31 March 2017, each of the Directors is entitled Partners LLP SPLLP from the Wellcome Trust and increased to receive a fee of 25,000 per annum, except for the Chairman its partnership interest in the CRT Pioneer Fund to 64.1 per cent who is entitled to receive a fee of 40,000 per annum and the by acquiring Cancer Research Technologys limited partnership Chairman of the Audit Committee who is entitled to a fee of interest and issued 357.1 million of shares to new and existing 30,000 per annum.
Mr Henderson continues to waive his right shareholders.
At the same time, the investment management team of Nigel Keen is Chairman of SIML and receives a fee of 125,000 SPLLP moved to become employees of Syncona Investment per annum, payable by SIML, in respect of his services to SIML.
Management Limited SIML, a company indirectly wholly None of the Directors has any entitlement to taxable benefits, owned by the Company.
pensions orpension related benefits, medical or life insurance At the Extraordinary General Meeting in December 2016, schemes, share options, long-term incentive plan, or performance shareholders approved the terms of the Syncona Long Term related payments.
No Director is entitled to any other monetary Incentive Plan for employees of SIML.
payment or assets of the Company except in their capacity where With the expansion of the Companys investment policy, the applicable as shareholders of the Company.
Accordingly the acquisition of SPLLP and creation of SIML, the Company will be table overleaf does not include columns for these items or their establishing a Remuneration Committee to, inter alia, decide on monetary equivalents.
the level of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and review the Directors and Officers insurance is maintained and paid for operation of and approve awards made under the Syncona Long by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
Until such time as a Remuneration Committee is established, the Board as a whole is responsible for deciding the In line with market practice the Company has undertaken, subject level of fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman to the Companies Law and certain limitations, to indemnify each and the operation of the Syncona Long Term Incentive Plan.
Director out of the assets and profits of the Company against certain charges, losses, damages, expenses and liabilities Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors arising out of any claims made against him in connection with The Company has no employees.
A resolution to approve the the performance of his or her duties as a Director of the Company.
Companys Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors The indemnities would also provide financial support from the will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company Company should the level of cover provided by the Directors to be held on 8 September 2017. and Officers insurance maintained by the Company be exhausted.
The policy takes into consideration the principles of the UK Code The Directors interests in contractual arrangements with the and is materially unchanged from the policy that the Company has Company are as shown in the Directors remuneration report.
adopted since it listed in 2012.
No shareholder views were sought Except as noted in the Directors Report, no Director was in setting the Remuneration Policy, although any comments interested in any contracts with the Company during the period received from shareholders will be considered on an ongoing or subsequently.
Details of the Remuneration Policy can be found on page 62.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 59 Directors remuneration report continued Single total figure table audited information Results of the voting at the 2016 AGM For the year to 31 March 2017, the fees for Directors were At the 2016 AGM shareholders approved the remuneration report as follows: that was published in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
31 March 31 March The results for this vote are shown below: 2017 2016 000 000 Votes Votes 1 Jeremy Tigue Chairman 10 Resolution for against Abstain Discretion 2 Arabella Cecil Approval of the Directors 116,498,207 3,390 9,176 3 Colin Maltby 8 20 remuneration report at 4 the 2016 AGM Ellen Strahlman 7 5 Jon Moulton 9 An ordinary resolution for the approval of the annual remuneration 6 Martin Thomas 19 report will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General 7 Nicholas Moss 30 20 Meeting to be held on 8 September 2017.
4,8 Nigel Keen 7 Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Peter Hames 25 20 audited information Thomas Henderson Neither the Companys Articles of Association nor the Directors Total 87 88 Letters of Appointment require a Director to own shares in the 1 Jeremy Tigue waived his right to Directors fees until 31 December 2016.
The interests of the Directors and their connected 2 Arabella Cecil was appointed to the Board on 9 September 2015 persons in the equity securities of the Company at 31 March 2017 and resigned on 19 December 2016. are shown in the table below.
3 Colin Maltby resigned from the Board on 31 July 2016.
4 Nigel Keen and Ellen Strahlman were appointed to the Board on 19 December 2016.
Ordinary shares 5 Jon Moulton resigned from the Board on 9 September 2015.
31 March 31 March 6 Martin Thomas resigned from the Board on 18 March 2016.
2017 2016 7 Fees were paid to Virtus Management Limited, a company formerly controlled by Nicholas Moss.
Jeremy Tigue Chairman 467,307 348,871 8 Fees were paid to Imperialise Limited, a company controlled by Nigel Keen.
Peter Hames 93,459 69,773 1 Thomas Henderson 12,042,400 11,742,400 No payments to Directors for loss of office have been made in Nigel Keen theyear.
Nicholas Moss 20,092 15,000 No payments to past Directors have been made in the year.
Ellen Strahlman Relative importance of spend on pay 1 Shares held by Farla Limited, a company controlled by Thomas Henderson.
The table below shows the proportion of the Companys Directors fees relative to returns to shareholders.
For the years ended There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors and 31March 2017 and 31 March 2016 this table includes Directors their connected persons in the equity securities of the Company only as the Company did not have any other staff.
For the For the In addition to Thomas Henderson, members of the team of the year ended year ended Investment Manager and Investment Advisor hold 1,811,673 31 March 31 March shares in the Company.
2017 2016 000 000 Difference Service contracts 1 Total Directors pay 87 88 1 None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Dividends 8,463 8,040 423 Non-Executive Directors are engaged under Letters of Directors pay as a % of Appointment.
distributions to shareholders 1.0 1.1 0.1 Copies of the Directors Letters of Appointment are available 1 Including Directors fees.
for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
Loss of office Directors Letters of Appointment expressly prohibit any entitlement to payment on loss of office.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company As the Company has no employees, the process of consulting with employees on the setting of the Remuneration Policy is not relevant.
Syncona Limited 60 Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Recruitment remuneration principles Annual bonus 1.
T he remuneration package for any new Chairman or A discretionary annual bonus may be awarded to recognise Non-Executive Director will be the same as the prevailing rates individual performance.
An award will take into account three determined on the bases set out in the Remuneration Policy.
factors: the underlying performance of the Company, the The fees and entitlement to reclaim reasonable expenses underlying life science portfolio return and the individuals will be set out in Directors Letters of Appointment.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
T he Board will not pay any introductory fee or incentive to Long Term Incentive Plan any person to encourage them to become a Director, but may The Company operates the Syncona Long Term Incentive Plan pay the fees of search and selection specialists in connection for employees of SIML.
Employees of SIML are awarded with the appointment of any new Non-Executive Director.
Management Equity Shares MES in Syncona Holdings Limited SHL at nil par value.
The MES entitle holders to share in the 3.
The Company intends to appoint only Non-Executive Directors growth of the Net Asset Value of the life science portfolio as further for the foreseeable future.
described in note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 4.
T he maximum aggregate fees currently payable to all and vest on a straight line basis over a four year period.
Holders Non-Executive Directors are 500,000. are able to realise 25 per cent of their vested MES annually after the publication of the Companys annual report provided that the Statement of consideration of employment NetAsset Value of the life science portfolio, excluding the interest conditions within SIML in the CRT Pioneer Fund, has grown by at least 15 per cent from The remuneration approach within SIML ensures that there the date of issue of the MES concerned.
MES are realised is alignment with business strategy and shareholder returns.
50percent in cash and 50 per cent in the shares of Syncona When conducting the annual salary review for all employees, Limited which must normally be held for at least 12 months.
account is taken of the external market and individual The first anniversary of the vesting of the MES awards is in performance.
The policy and components of current remuneration in respect Share dilution limits of SIML are as follows: The aggregate number of new Ordinary Shares which may be Base salary issued on the realisation of MES under the Syncona Long Term Base salaries are based on market data provided by the Incentive Plan in any 10 year period may not exceed 10 per cent Companys independent advisers.
Base salaries are reviewed of the number of Ordinary Shares in issue from time to time.
31March 2017 and assuming the satisfaction of all performance conditions, the total number of the Companys shares issuable Pension under awards made under the Syncona Long Term Incentive Plan SIML makes contributions for eligible employees into a SIML would have been 1,087,495, or 0.2 per cent of the number of personal pension plan to a maximum of 10 per cent of base salary.
Ordinary Shares in issue at that date.
Other benefits These include private medical insurance, income protection and life cover.
Share interests Members of the SIML team are encouraged to build up an interest in the Companys shares, but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 61 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy This Policy provides details of the Remuneration Policy for the may be increased by shareholder resolution from time to time.
Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
All Directors are The Board currently has no intention to appoint any executive appointed under the terms of Letters of Appointment, and none directors who will be paid by the Company.
The Company has no employees.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy The Non-Executive Directors of the Company are entitled to such A resolution to approve the Companys Remuneration Policy rates of annual fees as the Board at its discretion shall from time will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to time determine subject to the aggregate annual fees not to be held on 8 September 2017.
If the resolution is passed, the exceeding 500,000 and reimbursement of reasonable fees Remuneration Policy provisions set out below will apply from the and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
date of approval until they are next put to shareholders for renewal Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement to pensions or of that approval, which must be at intervals of not more than three pension-related benefits, medical or life insurance schemes, years, or if it is proposed to vary the Remuneration Policy, in which event shareholder approval for the new Remuneration Policy will share options, long-term incentive plans or performance-related be sought.
Where expenses are recognised as a taxable benefit, a Non-Executive Director may receive the grossed-up costs of The Board has the power at any time to appoint any person that expense as a benefit.
to be a Director, either to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the existing Directors.
There shall be no maximum number In line with the majority of investment companies, no component of Directors unless otherwise determined by the Company by of any Directors remuneration is subject to performance factors.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office There are no provisions in Directors Letters of Appointment for only until the next following Annual General Meeting and shall recovery or withholding of fees or expenses.
Annual fees are then be eligible for re-election.
pro-rated where a change takes place during a financial year.
The Directors are non-executive and their fees are set within the limits of the Companys Articles of Association.
The level of cap Table of Directors remuneration components Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for all his The fees paid to the Chairman fee a high-calibre Board responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed periodically by Chairman are subject to 1 Chairman by offering the Remuneration Committee, with reference to workload, change periodically by the a market competitive time commitment and market levels in comparably sized Remuneration Committee fee level.
investment companies, and a recommendation is then made under this policy.
There is to the Board without the Chairman being present.
Non-Executive To attract and retain The Non-Executives are paid a basic fee.
The fee levels are These fee levels are Director fees high-calibre Nonreviewed periodically by the Chairman and the Remuneration subject to change 1 Executive Directors Committee, with reference to workload, time commitment periodically under this by offering a market and market levels in comparably sized investment companies policy.
There is no competitive fee level.
and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
fees may be paid for Non-Executive roles with further Board responsibilities such as Audit Committee Chairman.
1 The Company will be establishing a Remuneration Committee during the course of 2017.
Notes The Board only exercises its discretion in setting rates of fees after an analysis of fees paid to Directors of other companies having similar profiles to that of the Company, and consultation with third-party advisers.
Accordingly, there are no differences in policy on the remuneration of Directors and the remuneration of employees.
No Director is entitled to receive any remuneration from the Company which is performance-related.
As a result there are no performance conditions in relation to any elements of the Directors remuneration in existence to set out in this Remuneration Policy.
Review of the Remuneration Policy Approval The Remuneration Policy for Directors is consistent with the policy This remuneration report has been approved by the Board adopted by the Company since its inception.
The Board has agreed that there would be a formal review before On behalf of the Board by: any material change to Remuneration Policy: and at least once a year the Remuneration Policy would be reviewed to ensure that it remained appropriate.
Jeremy Tigue Chairman 5 July 2017 Syncona Limited 62 Annual report and accounts 2017
