Governance|Report on directors' remuneration Report on directors remuneration Remuneration Committee report Roger Davis, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Current members INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN Roger Davis Chairman On behalf of the Remuneration Committee the 'Committee', Im pleased to present Deirdre Mahlan the Report on directors remuneration the Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Caroline Donahue Three years ago, we introduced our Directors remuneration policy the Policy which George Rose was approved by shareholders and applies until 2017.
During the year, the Committee Luiz Fleury has reviewed this Policy and made minor amendments in order to aid transparency Paul Walker and in the context of evolving market practice.
The Committee has actively tested the policy with shareholders along the way, and it will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Further details around this proposed new policy are set out below.
Over the course of the year, weve also reflected on and approved pay outcomes for our executive directors.
Weve done this in the light of our financial and wider business performance, details of which Ive set out in the following section.
Pay and performance in the last financial year How did we perform in the year?
Our robust financial performance also Annual bonus Overall, 2017 has been a good year translated into market sentiment, as our Of the maximum Benchmark PBT target for Experian.
Whilst there have been share price enjoyed growth of more than set at the start of the year, 89% was challenges in some of our businesses, 30% over the course of the year.
achieved, and this resulted in bonus others have shown incredibly robust payouts equivalent to 177% of each Furthermore, with the recent performance.
For example the significant of the executive directors salaries.
announcement of the definitive shifts that have taken place in the Before approving these awards, the agreement to sell our CCM business, the marketplace have meant that we have Committee reviewed this outcome in the management team has taken steps to had to take a number of important context of the business performance ensure that our portfolio is now sharper steps to reposition our UK and Ireland outlined above, and was satisfied that and more focused.
This leaves us in good Consumer Services business.
On the this level of payout was warranted shape to sustain our momentum as we other hand, our Latin America region by Experian's wider financial and continue to look forward.
has made exceptionally strong progress, businessperformance.
delivering Organic revenue growth of 9% How was our performance Further details of the annual bonus over the year.
outcomes are set out in the Annual Salary Overall, we successfully grew Organic reporton remuneration.
p97 During the year, the Committee approved revenue by 5%, in line with our target salary increases for the executive range of mid single-digit, and also grew directors of between 2.6% and 2.8%.
our Benchmark EBIT margin to 27.7%.
We These increases were in line with delivered Benchmark PBT of US$1,124m, those awarded to the wider employee up 6% on the prior year, and returned population across the Group.
US$734m to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
84 Governance|Report on directors' remuneration Long-term incentives The Performance Share Plan 'PSP' and Co-investment Plan 'CIP' awards granted in 2014 will vest on 19 May 2017.
As shown in the diagram below, the vesting of the CIP awards was based equally on Benchmark PBT growth and Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow targets, whilst vesting of the PSP awards was based on Benchmark PBT growth 75% of the award and relative total shareholder return 'TSR' targets 25% of the award : Cumulative Benchmark operating 50% 50% 25% 75% 2014 CIP Benchmark PBT cash flow Total 0% 25% 0% Maximum 50% 50% 100% 38.5% Actual 0% 38.5% 38.5% 2014 CIP 2014 PSP Vesting Vesting 2014 PSP Benchmark PBT Relative TSR Total Maximum 75% 25% 100% Actual 0% 25% 25% Also subject to return on capital employed underpin, which was met.
As shown in the charts above, 38.5% of the 2014 CIP awards and 25% of the 2014 PSP awards vested.
Given the business p97 performance set out in the Annual report on remuneration, the Committee considered this level of vesting to be appropriate.
The formal inclusion of a threshold The potential to include a nonLooking ahead proposed level of payout in our annual bonus financial measure into our Directors remuneration policy annualbonus Last year, the Committee made The last three years have seen a number a commitment to fully disclose Our second proposed change is to of changes in our executive leadership our annual bonus targets on a amend the Policy to provide the team, shifts in our business environment retrospective basis.
Unlike many flexibility for us to introduce a nonparticularly in the UK and USA and organisations, our current bonus financial performance element to challenging economic environments structure has not historically supplement the financial performance in some of our key markets, such as included a threshold level of payout.
metric in the annual bonus.
Over this period our Directors Introducing a threshold would reduce remuneration policy has worked well to Whilst were not intending to introduce the need for the Committee to use ensure that, in spite of these changes and such a measure at this stage, we its judgment and make outcomes challenges, our business has continued would like to 'future proof' our Policy more formulaic, ensuring a simpler to grow, delivering good financial as its possible that the business may and clearer process.
The threshold performance and making progress both evolve over the next three years in level of payout being proposed is 25% strategically and operationally.
ways that would make it desirable to ofmaximum.
We propose that, under As a result of the Policys continued Well continue to ensure that all any circumstances, at least 70% of the support for the business, and the fact that performance targets we set are bonus opportunity will remain linked our incentive plans were reapproved in robust and stretching.
We will, of to financial performance measures.
2015 with strong shareholder support, course, be fully accountable for these Shareholders will note that all longwere not recommending any wholesale targets once theyre published in our term incentive plans will continue to be changes to the Policy.
However, as we Report on directors remuneration, linked to financial measures.
move forward, we must always look to when shareholders will be able to improve and enhance our pay practices.
Other than these changes, weve only judge their appropriateness.
The renewal of the Policy has allowed made minor 'housekeeping' updates, us to understand the views of our major such as updating the normal salary shareholders, and to step back and assess review date following our decision how we compare to evolving market last year to align salary review dates practice.
As a result, were proposing the across the Group, and formally following minor updates to our Policy, both including our malus and clawback of which relate to our annual bonus: provisions which were introduced in 2015.
85 Governance|Report on directors' remuneration Report on directors remuneration continued As mentioned above, in determining We also note that, since our current Summary the proposed updates to the Policy, policy was approved in 2014, share I hope this introduction provides you with we engaged actively with our major matching plans have become less an overview of the Committees work shareholders, as well as with leading common in the UK market.
I wanted during the year and insight into some of institutional investor bodies, and to briefly set out why the Committee the key decisions weve made.
Further Im pleased to say that the response believes that the CIP is an important details on the Committees activities to this was positive.
Nevertheless, component of our overall remuneration are set out in the Annual remuneration the Committee is aware that some package.
On the following page, youll shareholders prefer time horizons find an Our executive remuneration at it aligns executive director and longer than our existing three years.
a glance section, which summarises shareholder interests, by providing Weve long held the view that our on one page the outcomes of these executives with the opportunity to use current structures create a high degree key decisions against our financial and their own money to purchase Experian of alignment between the long-term businessperformance.
shares, which must be held for three interests of management and our years.
The fact that our executive shareholdersthrough: Lastly, I'd like to thank my fellow directors have chosen to invest the Committee members and those who a history of executive directors maximum possible every year speaks have supported the Committee over the choosing to defer 100% of their volumes about their confidence in the year for their continued commitment and bonuses into Experian shares under Groups prospects: and guidance, in a year where much work the CIP in each year since their it ensures that executives are has been done in reviewing and updating appointment to the Board: incentivised to produce strong shortour Directors remuneration policy.
I look shareholding guidelines, which are and long-term performance since forward to receiving your support for the in line with best practice and are performance outcomes are dependent Directors remuneration policy, as well exceeded by each of our executive on a 'double trigger': a maximum asthe Annual report on remuneration, directors: and outcome is only payable where the atthe 2017 AGM.
stretching annual bonus PBT targets executive directors holding vested are met in full, and the subsequent shares from both the long-term Cumulative Benchmark PSP and CIP in order to reach their operating cash flow and Benchmark shareholding guidelines PBT per share targets under the CIP as quickly as possible.
matching award are also met in full.
Our policy for our senior management As a result, the last time that this was team is consistent with that for our achieved was in 2013, when the 2013 executive directors.
We have an CIP awards, which were based on executive director and several senior 2010 bonus outcomes, vested in full.
executives based in the USA, where cliff We'five also noted many shareholders vesting periods of even three years are recent shift away from a 'one-sizeconsidered to be long.
In this context, fits-all' approach to remuneration and we believe that our current three-year this was reflected in the strong level of vesting periods strike an appropriate support that the CIP received at the 2015 balance between incentivising long-term, AGM, when 84% of our shareholders strategic thinking and locking in key voted to renew it, along with the Groups senior talent.
86 Governance|Our executive remuneration at a glance Our executive remuneration at a glance Performance snapshot How was performance reflected in our incentives?
Vesting 0% 50% 100% Total % 5 bn US$4.1 Annual 3-year average % Benchmark PBT 89% bonus 89 3-year Cumulative Benchmark % Benchmark PBT per share 28.5 % operating cash Cumulative growth 6 Benchmark PBT Benchmark flow % 3-year TSR CIP 38.5 per share 0% operating outperformance Benchmark cash flow 77% of the FTSE 100 PBT growth Benchmark PBT per TSR % PSP 25 share 0% 100% On a constant currency basis What did we pay our executive directors?
What level of shareholding do our executive directors have?
Brian Cassin Lloyd Pitchford Kerry Williams 000 000 US$000 Brian 501% Cassin Salary 896 553 948 Lloyd 341% Benefits 22 29 29 Pitchford Pension 179 111 11 Kerry 694% Williams Annual bonus 1,586 978 1,674 0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% Share-based incentives 944 981 1,192 Shareholding guideline Actual shareholding Total 3,627 2,652 3,854 as a % of their salary Remuneration arrangements for the coming year Element Details Increases of between 2.6% and 2.8% for executive directors, in line with those in the wider workforce.
Salaries Salary effective 1 June 2017 are Brian Cassin: 925,000, Lloyd Pitchford: 570,000 and Kerry Williams: US$975,000 Opportunity: 100% of salary at target: 200% of salary at maximum.
Performance metric: Benchmark PBT growth.
Bonus Deferral: Between 50% and 100% of bonus may be deferred into the CIP Opportunity: Matching shares awarded on up to a two-for-one basis.
Performance metrics: Benchmark PBT per CIP share 50% and Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow 50% Opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
Performance metrics: Benchmark PBT per share 75% and TSR relative PSP to the FTSE 100 index 25% Malus & clawback Applied to all variable incentive awards made in the year Our executive remuneration structure and how it compares to the wider employee population Executive Key senior Senior Other directors executives management employees Salary Fixed pay Provides a competitive and cost- 3 c. 40 c. 800 c. 15,500 effective base pay package Pension & benefits Salary Pension & benefits Annual bonus Variable pay Bonus commission Incentivises specific financial objectives, encourages longCIP CIP term commitment to the Group and provides alignment with PSP PSP shareholder interests Restricted shares 87 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Directors' remuneration policy Shareholders approved the current remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM and it took effect from that date.
The remuneration policy set out below will take effect from the date of the 2017 AGM, subject to shareholder approval, and will apply until the 2020 AGM at p84 the latest.
Changes to the previous policy are detailed in the Introduction from the Chairman section of this Report.
Shareholders approved the Companys long-term incentive plans at the 2015 AGM for a ten-year period from that date.
Experians executive director remuneration philosophy and principles Experians remuneration philosophy for executive directors is geared towards driving long-term, sustainable business performance.
We aim to have remuneration principles that: are fully consistent with Experians business objectives and strategy: drive accountability and transparency, and align executive remuneration with shareholders interests: provide a balanced portfolio of incentives, aligning both shortand longer-term performance, to incentivise the delivery of sustainable growth and value for our shareholders: apply demanding performance conditions to deliver sustained growth across the Group: allow remuneration packages to be set which are appropriate for the role, given an individuals performance and experience, and the remuneration arrangements throughout the Group: deliver competitive benefits, to complement the other components of the remuneration package: take into account both affordability and Experians risk appetite, ensuring that our incentive plans do not encourage any undue risk taking, and strive to avoid any undue complexity: and strengthen directors alignment with shareholders, through significant share ownership guidelines that apply to both executive and non-executive directors.
This philosophy has underpinned our remuneration policy since we became an independent company in 2006 and the Committee considers that it has stood the test of time well.
The Committee remains confident that the policy will continue to serve the interests of all of our stakeholders, through the strong performance and reward culture that we promote throughout our workforce.
Policy table This section of the report sets out our remuneration policy for executive directors and non-executive directors.
If approved, it will apply to payments made from the date of the 2017 AGM.
The current policy will continue to apply until this date.
Maximum potential value Performance Element and link to strategy Operation and payment at target metrics and weightings Base salary Annual executive director When the Committee To help with attracting Base salary is paid in equal instalments during the salary increases will, in considers salary increases, and retaining executive year.
normal circumstances, be it takes into account directors of the right Salaries are reviewed annually, with any increases limited to the increases individual performance over calibre.
generally taking effect from 1 June.
awarded across the Group the preceding financial year.
Provides a base level of pay Salary levels and increases take into account a as a whole.
and reflects the competitive number of factors, including the approach to employee market salary for the role.
Higher increases may remuneration throughout the Group, prevailing be made in exceptional Base salary level takes economic conditions, best practice and positioning circumstances including, account of personal against the market.
but not limited to, a change contribution and in role or responsibility, and performance against will take account of market Group strategy.
practice in relation to the new role.
88 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Maximum potential value Performance Element and link to strategy Operation and payment at target metrics and weightings Benefits Benefits are provided The Group provides a range of market-competitive The cost of providing such None.
as part of a competitive benefits that include, but are not limited to, healthcare, benefits may vary from year and cost-effective overall death in service provision, company car or allowance to year, reflecting the cost to remuneration package.
and financial and tax advice.
Certain benefits may also Executive directors can also participate in any of the The Committee sets be provided to support Groups all-employee share plans, for example the benefits at a level it expatriates, where they Sharesave plan, on the same basis as other eligible considers appropriate have relocated.
against relevant market practice, the role and In the USA, eligible executive directors may participate particular circumstances in a deferred compensation plan, which is standard for example, in the case of market practice in the USA.
expatriate benefits, where For expatriate assignments, we retain the flexibility to the individual is required to tailor benefits to the circumstances of the assignment.
Additional benefits may include relocation expenses at the beginning and end of each assignment, housing allowance and school fees.
Pension Provides a market-aligned Pension arrangements are in line with local market In the UK, the cash payment None.
or pension contribution for executive directors is In the UK, the Group operates a defined contribution normally equal to 20% of plan, with company contributions set as a percentage annual gross base salary.
If impacted by HMRC pension limits, an individual may elect to receive a cash allowance In the USA, the contribution instead.
rate is up to 4% of earnings, up to an annual In the USA, executive directors are eligible to join a compensation limit set defined contribution plan.
by the Internal Revenue Service.
If required, pension arrangements in other jurisdictions would be in line with local market practice.
Annual bonus The Committee sets appropriate performance Threshold performance The annual bonus may be Motivates and rewards the targets at the start of each financial year.
results in a bonus payout based entirely on financial achievement of specific annual objectives, linked equivalent to 25% of the performance or on a At the end of the financial year, the Committee to Experians business maximum.
No bonus is combination of financial, determines the extent to which these have been strategy.
payable for below-threshold strategic and or operational satisfied, based on audited results, and agrees the performance.
However, the level of bonus to be paid.
financial element will Achieving target Payment is made as soon as practicable after the comprise at least 70% of performance results in a financial year-end, unless the executive director elects the bonus.
bonus payout equivalent to to defer some or all of their bonus into the CIP.
The Committee retains Malus and clawback provisions apply, under which the ability to exercise its Achieving maximum annual bonus payments may be reduced or recovered judgment to vary the level performance results in full in certain circumstances.
Further details about our of payout if it considers bonus payout of 200% of clawback and malus policy are set out in the Which that the formulaic payout salary.
p92 determined by measuring performance is inconsistent with the Groups actual underlying financial and operational performance.
89 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Directors' remuneration policy continued Maximum potential value Performance Element and link to strategy Operation and payment at target metrics and weightings Co-Investment Plan 'CIP' Aligns with shareholder Participants are invited to invest between 50% and There is no vesting for Awards vest based on interests through voluntary 100% of their annual bonus into Experian shares.
financial performance and investment of personal subject to the Committee A conditional award of matching shares or nil-cost Achieving target capital, delivery of Experian being satisfied that the options is granted on a two-for-one basis on the gross performance results in shares and the long-term vesting is not based on bonus deferred, and vests over a three-year period matching shares vesting on time horizons.
materially misstated subject to achieving performance targets.
Use of stretching financial Dividend equivalents accrue on all awards of shares.
Achieving maximum metrics incentivises The Committee retains performance results in Malus and clawback provisions apply, under which performance.
the discretion to exercise matching shares vesting CIP awards may be reduced or recovered in certain its judgment to vary Encourages participants on a two-for-one basis.
Further details about our clawback the level of vesting if it long-term commitment to and malus policy are set out in the Which clawback considers the formulaic the Group through personal provisions apply?
by measuring performance to be inconsistent with the Groups actual underlying financial and operational performance.
Performance Share Plan 'PSP' Use of stretching financial Participants receive an annual award of conditional Normal maximum award Vesting of up to 25% of the metrics incentivises shares or nil-cost options, which vest over a threelevels are 200% of salary.
awards is based on a shareperformance.
year period subject to achieving performance targets.
Awards of up to 400% of based metric, with the salary may be made in balance based on financial Aligns with shareholder Dividend equivalents accrue on all awards of shares.
interests through delivery Malus and clawback provisions apply, under which such as on recruitment.
of shares and the long-term Awards are also subject to a PSP awards may be reduced or recovered in certain time horizons.
There is no vesting for financial underpin.
Further details about our clawback below-target performance.
and malus policy are set out in the Which clawback The Committee retains p92 provisions apply?
Achieving target the ability to vary the level performance results in 25% of vesting if it considers of the shares vesting.
the formulaic vesting level determined by Achieving maximum measuring performance performance results in full to be inconsistent with the vesting of the shares.
Groups actual underlying financial and operational performance.
90 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Maximum potential value Performance Element and link to strategy Operation and payment at target metrics and weightings Chairman and non-executive director 'NED' fees To attract individuals with a The Chairman is paid an annual fee in equal monthly The Committee sets the No performance-related broad range of experience instalments.
The Group may provide the Chairman Chairmans fees, whilst NED arrangements are in and skills, to oversee with a limited range of benefits such as healthcare, fees are set by the Board.
place for the Chairman the implementation of tax advice or use of a car.
Both are set based on a ortheNEDs.
number of factors, including The NEDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for the time commitment chairing a Board Committee and for the role of Deputy required and positioning Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
NED fees are paid in equal quarterly instalments Fees are normally reviewed during the year.
NEDs receive an additional fee where attendance at Board meetings involves intercontinental travel from their home location.
The Company may settle any tax due on travel expenses incurred by the Chairman and NEDs.
Share Option Plan 'SOP' Provides focus on Options are granted with an exercise price equivalent Normal maximum award The vesting of options increasing Experians share to the market value of an Experian share at the date levels are 200% of salary.
is based on financial price over the medium to of grant.
These vest subject to achieving performance Grants of up to 400% of performance targets.
targets that are tested over a three-year period and salary may be made in are exercisable for seven years thereafter.
exceptional circumstances such as on recruitment.
No option grants have been made since 2009 and the Committee has agreed that no further awards There is no vesting for will be made, unless warranted by exceptional below-target performance.
Achieving target Malus and clawback provisions apply, under which performance results in 25% SOP awards may be reduced or recovered in certain of the options vesting.
Further details about our clawback Achieving maximum and malus policy are set out in the Which clawback performance results in full p92 provisions apply?
Legacy arrangements The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out in this report where the entitlement to the payment arose i before the 2014 AGM: ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company: or iii under a remuneration policy previously approved by the Companys shareholders.
For these purposes entitlements arising under the Companys current remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will be incorporated into this policy and payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an entitlement under an award over shares arises at the time the award is granted.
91 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Directors' remuneration policy continued How does our executive remuneration differ from pay of employees across the Group?
Salary Since 2016, the salary review date for executive directors has been aligned with the salary review date for all of our employees: 1 June each year.
Although increases may vary, executive director increases are aligned with typical increases awarded across the Group, under normal circumstances.
Benefits and pension Benefits and pension arrangements are determined based on local market practice for all of our employees across the Group, including executive directors.
Annual bonus All of our contracted employees participate in either an annual bonus plan or commission scheme.
For the annual bonus, the opportunity and performance measures vary depending on grade, location and business unit, however the structure is broadly consistent for all employees.
Long-term incentives Pay for senior management is primarily differentiated through the use of our long-term incentive plans.
Executive directors and around 850 senior managers participate in either the PSP and CIP, or receive Restricted share awards.
As such, their pay is contingent on the achievement of performance targets and or delivered in shares.
This makes outcomes conditional on successfully delivering our business strategy and, in doing so, incentivises the delivery of long-term shareholder returns.
Clawback applies to the Companys incentive plans, as shown below: 1 April 2017 1 April 2018 1 April 2019 1 April 2020 1 April 2021 Annual bonus Performance period Clawback period CIP matching awards Performance period Clawback period PSP awards Performance period Clawback period Under these provisions, the Committee may apply malus and or clawback in circumstances which have: resulted in a level of vesting or payment which is higher than would otherwise have been, because of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results: or led to a material financial or reputational loss for the Group, due to serious individual misconduct.
Under our malus and clawback policy, should a trigger event be identified, a Clawback Committee would be appointed by the Remuneration Committee to investigate the issue.
The Clawback Committee would report back with recommendations on whether malus and or clawback should be applied, which individuals this should affect, which remuneration should be subject to malus and or clawback and the value that should be impacted.
The Remuneration Committee would then have final sign-off on any decision to operate clawback or malus.
92 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy What does total remuneration look like under various performance scenarios?
The charts below show the total remuneration that could be paid to each executive director under this remuneration policy in the first year in which the policy applies.
We have illustrated three different performance scenarios.
Target performance is fixed pay plus the level of performance required to deliver 50% of the maximum annual bonus, and 25% and 50% of the maximum PSP and CIP awards respectively, with the CIP matching award being based on 100% deferral of a target annual bonus.
Maximum performance is fixed pay plus the maximum annual bonus payment and full vesting of the CIP and PSP awards, with the CIP matching award being based on 100% deferral of a maximum annual bonus.
All scenarios ignore share price growth and dividend equivalents.
How we select performance measures and set targets The performance measures we currently use in our annual bonus and long-term incentive plans are all financial or share-based.
Our performance management process, which we use throughout Experian, assesses executives against both financial and nonfinancial objectives.
The executive directors performance against their individual objectives ultimately supports our financial performance, so we believe its appropriate that financial metrics remain the key incentive plan measures.
These seek to ensure that the executive directors deliver the underlying financial performance of the business, whilst clearly aligning the interests of shareholders and executive directors.
However, were mindful that specific circumstances could arise during the life of the policy which would make it desirable to introduce a strategic non-financial measure or measures into the annual bonus.
If this is the case, well ensure that this metric is robust, measurable and clearly linked to Experians business strategy.
For all elements of variable pay, we take a number of factors into account when setting targets, including both internal and external expectations.
These include brokers earnings estimates, competitors earnings estimates, wider economic expectations, the latest internal projections for the current year, the budget and the strategic plan.
The Committee spends a great deal of time considering targets at three separate meetings between January and May each year before we finalise them.
Targets are structured as a sliding scale, with maximum awards only payable for the achievement of significant levels of performance.
We disclose the targets for our long-term incentive plan awards prospectively, whilst annual bonus targets will be disclosed one year after the end of the relevant financial year.
Further details of our target setting process are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
93 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Directors' remuneration policy continued Our approach to pay on recruitment of executive directors As a global organisation, Experian competes for market share and executive talent in 37 countries.
Were a leader in the information industry, where demand for talented leaders often outstrips supply.
From time to time, it may be necessary to appoint high-calibre executives to the Board, either by recruiting externally or by promoting from within the Group.
However, we dont believe in paying more than required to secure the talent necessary to take our business forward.
In developing a remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director, wed generally set a base salary which takes into account factors such as the individuals skills and experience, the role theyll be taking up, internal relativities, the marketplace theyll operate in and their current remuneration package.
The incentive arrangements and benefits we offer, including any relocation arrangements, would be in line with the remuneration policy set out in this report.
Maximum level of variable remuneration Weve set the usual maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 800% of base salary.
This is in line with the normal levels under our variable remuneration structure, and covers the maximum annual bonus, the maximum face value of a matching award under the CIP and the normal maximum face value of an award under the PSP.
When recruiting an executive director, the Committee would always seek to apply the normal maximum limits.
However we may, in exceptional circumstances, make use of one or more of the following higher limits if we felt this was necessary in order to secure the appointment of a particular individual: Percent of base salary Incentive plan Normal maximum Exceptional maximum Annual bonus plan 200% 200% CIP 400% 400% PSP 200% 400% SOP 400% In the case of an internal promotion to the Board, any existing variable pay element or benefit may be allowed to continue on the same terms.
Buyout awards For an external appointment to the Board, the Committee may offer further one-off cash and or share-based remuneration, to compensate the individual for forfeiting any incentive awards made to them by their former employer.
We'd aim to make this equivalent in value, by taking into account the likelihood of vesting, after assessing the conditions attached to any such awards.
As far as possible, we would also replicate the form i. e. whether cash or share-based and the timeframe in which vesting was scheduled to occur.
These awards may be granted under the terms of UK Listing Rule 9.4.
Directors service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office Current contracts Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford have service agreements which are terminable by 12 months notice from Experian Limited or six months notice from them.
The agreement provides for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary only.
Kerry Williams has a service agreement with Experian Services Corporation 'ESC' that is terminable by 12 months notice from ESC or six months notice from him.
Non-executive directors don't have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment with no provision for any termination payment.
Each appointment is for a renewable three-year term, subject to election or re-election by shareholders, but may be terminated by either party on one months written notice six months notice in the case of the Chairman.
Upon termination a nonexecutive director will be entitled to receive fees and benefits up to the date of termination.
94 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Policy for new hires Our policy for new hires is that service contracts will generally require no more than 12 months notice of termination of employment and will follow the UK Corporate Governance Code the 'Code' guidelines.
We believe that this is in line with best practice, remains market competitive and allows Experian to recruit people who we identify as critical to our future performance.
Policy on payments for loss of office The table below sets out our policy for how we treat executive directors leaving the Group subject to the current contractual commitments described above.
We reserve the right to make additional exit payments if we need to discharge an existing legal obligation or pay damages for breaching an obligation.
We also reserve the right to make an exit payment by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with terminating a directors office or employment.
Voluntary resignation or termination Other circumstances such as death, ill health, retirement, disability for misconduct or poor performance or redundancy or any other reason as defined by the Committee Base salary, Paid up to the date of termination Paid up to the date of death or leaving and for any holidays not taken as pension and and for any holidays not taken as at that date.
If, in the judgment of the Committee, exceptional circumstances apply, such as in the case of death, the Committee may agree to a different approach from that outlined above, for example not applying pro-rating to a payment.
Annual bonus Normally no annual bonus is paid Annual bonus will usually be paid on the normal bonus payment date, in respect of a financial year if an in line with performance achieved, pro-rated for the proportion of the individual has left employment or financial year worked.
is under notice prior to the bonus If the Committee judges that exceptional circumstances apply, for payment date.
example in the case of death, the Committee may agree that it is not In the exceptional event any bonus appropriate to time pro-rate the annual bonus payment.
is paid, any election already made Any election already made to defer annual bonus under the CIP will to defer annual bonus under the CIP not apply.
CIP invested Invested or deferred shares will be Invested or deferred shares will be transferred to the individual.
deferred shares transferred to the individual.
CIP matching Unvested awards will lapse.
Any In the case of death, performance conditions will cease to apply and shares and PSP vested awards structured as nilunvested awards will vest immediately.
awards cost options which have not been In all other cases, subject to the Committees discretion, unvested exercised may be exercised up to the awards will vest at the end of the performance period and remain normal lapse date.
subject to the relevant performance conditions.
In all circumstances, the number of shares vesting will normally be reduced pro-rata, to reflect the number of months from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation of employment as a proportion of the performance period.
If the Committee judges that exceptional circumstances apply, for example in the case of death, the Committee may agree that it is not appropriate to time pro-rate the number of shares vesting.
Vested awards structured as nil-cost options which have not been exercised may be exercised up to the normal lapse date.
95 Governance|Directors' remuneration policy Directors' remuneration policy continued Voluntary resignation or termination Other circumstances such as death, ill health, retirement, disability for misconduct or poor performance or redundancy or any other reason as defined by the Committee Executive share Unvested share options will lapse.
In the case of death, unvested share options will vest immediately and options will remain exercisable for 12 months.
Any vested share options will also Vested options will not lapse and will remain exercisable for 12 months.
remain exercisable for six months, unless the reason for leaving is In all other cases, any vested options will remain exercisable for six dismissal for misconduct, in which months following cessation of employment.
Unvested options, subject to case, subject to Committee discretion, the Committees discretion, will vest at the end of the performance period the options will lapse on the date of and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
The number cessation of employment.
of options vesting will normally be reduced pro-rata, to reflect the number of months from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation of employment as a proportion of the performance period.
These options will be exercisable for six months following vesting.
Awards under allIn accordance with the relevant tax In accordance with the relevant tax regulations or plan rules.
employee plans regulations or plan rules.
Other None At the Committees discretion, leavers may receive disbursements such as legal fees and outplacement as well as repatriation costs and continuation of assignment benefits for a limited period of time, where relevant.
For executive directors who leave the Group in other circumstances, the treatment will normally fall between the two described above.
In any event, the overall treatment will be subject to the Committees judgment.
If theres a change of control, executive directors may exchange their incentive awards other than CIP invested shares for awards in the acquiring company.
CIP invested shares will be transferred to the individual.
Alternatively, incentive awards may vest to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied.
In this circumstance, CIP matching shares and PSP shares will be prorated to reflect the number of months from the start of the performance period to the date of the change of control as a proportion of the performance period.
Statement of consideration of employee and shareholder views Whilst the Committees primary focus is the executive directors remuneration, we also approve the remuneration structure for other senior executives and work closely with the Global Reward team to ensure a consistent approach is taken to remuneration more widely across the Company.
When setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, we also take into account the pay, employment conditions and remuneration trends across the Group, particularly in determining annual salary increases.
Although we dont directly consult employees on executive directors pay or expressly include employees views in our deliberations, were mindful of the results of our periodic Global People Survey which focuses, in part, on remuneration, reward and performance.
Before the AGM, the Chairman of the Committee writes to our largest shareholders and investor representative bodies, such as the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. 'ISS', to seek their input on any proposed changes to our remuneration structure.
We then engage in further discussion and clarification, to help them make an informed voting decision as required.
Any major concerns are discussed with the Committee Chairman first, and the rest of the Committee as appropriate.
At the Committees first meeting following each AGM, we consider all the shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
We also consider this feedback, and any other feedback received during meetings or from any correspondence, as part of our annual review of remuneration policy, which normally takes place at our meetings in November and January.
96 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration Set out below is the Annual report on remuneration, which will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM on 20 July 2017.
The Remuneration Committee has prepared this report on behalf of the Board in line with the UK Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and the Listing Rules of the UK FCA.
Unless noted otherwise, all of the sections below are audited by the Companys external auditor, KPMG.
What did we pay our executive directors in the year?
audited The following table shows the single total figure of remuneration for the executive directors, for the years ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016.
Further explanatory information is set out below.
Kerry Williams annual salary for the year ended 31 March 2016 was US$925,000.
The actual payment made during the course of the year reflects the timing of US payroll payments.
How has the single figure been calculated?
audited Salary This figure represents the salary we paid to executive directors during the year.
Last year, we aligned the pay review dates across the Group, with all salary increases taking effect from 1 June 2016.
The Committee approved salary increases for executive directors of between 2.7% and 2.9% with effect from this date: 1 June 2016 1 April 2015 000 000 % increase Brian Cassin 900 875 2.9% Lloyd Pitchford 555 540 2.8% Kerry Williams US$950 US$925 2.7% In awarding these increases, we considered a number of factors, including the approach to employee remuneration throughout the Group, the prevailing economic conditions and positioning against the market.
The salary review budget in the USA and the UK was 3%.
Benefits and pension Taxable benefits include life insurance, private healthcare and a company car.
Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford are eligible to participate in a defined contribution pension plan but elected not to do so during the year ended 31 March 2017, due to the HMRC pension limits.
In 2017, Brian Cassin received a cash supplement of 179,167 2016: 175,000, and Lloyd Pitchford received a cash supplement of 110,500 2016: 108,000, in lieu of their pension contributions.
Kerry Williams participates in a defined contribution plan 401k and the Company contribution to this during the year was US$10,869 2016: US$12,254.
No executive director has a prospective right to a defined benefit pension.
97 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Annual bonus Performance metrics Annual bonus outcomes depend on Benchmark PBT growth at constant currency, relative to stretching targets we set at the start of the financial year.
We use Benchmark PBT because: its aligned to Experians business strategy, as it incentivises executives to generate returns for the business: as a profit growth metric, it reflects one of Experians key performance indicators: and its simple to understand and to measure.
For the purposes of the annual bonus, performance is measured on a constant currency basis to strip out the effects of exchange rate fluctuations.
This is consistent with our approach for long-term incentive plans.
The target setting process Each year we undertake a rigorous exercise to ensure that we set sufficiently stretching targets.
Before finalising them, we consider the strategic context and the targets at three meetings between January and May each year.
We also take a number of factors into account when setting the targets: Internal expectations External expectations Strategic plan Brokers earnings estimates Budget for the coming year Wider economic expectations Current year performance Competitors earnings estimates We structure targets as a sliding scale, and only pay maximum awards for significant performance.
Annual bonus outcomes The table below sets out our growth in Benchmark PBT for bonus purposes relative to our targets, and the resulting annual bonus outcomes for the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2017.
% of bonus Benchmark Achievement Bonus payout Bonus payout deferred PBT growth % of maximum 000 % of salary under the CIP Brian Cassin 1,586 177% 100% Lloyd Pitchford 6% 89% 978 177% 100% Kerry Williams US$1,674 177% 100% In determining the outcome of the annual bonus, we considered whether the payout adequately reflected the Groups wider business performance over the course of the year.
After careful consideration, we are satisfied that business performance has been strong and that the level of payout is justified.
Details of our performance are set out in the Introduction from the Chairman section of this Report.
The executive directors have elected to defer their full bonus into Experian shares under the CIP for a three-year period.
Deferred bonus shares are not subject to any further conditions but may be matched, subject to the conditions set out in the CIP awards section below.
Performance target disclosure As disclosed in last years Report, the Committee decided that from the start of the current financial year, annual bonus targets would be disclosed one year following the completion of the relevant performance period, when we consider the commercial sensitivity of these targets would be reduced.
As such, the actual Benchmark PBT targets for this award will be fully disclosed in next years Report.
98 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Share-based incentives The share-based incentive amount included in the single total figure of remuneration is the combined value of the CIP and PSP awards vesting in respect of the relevant financial year.
For 2016, these relate to the awards granted on 7 June 2013 and for 2017 they relate to the awards granted on 19 May 2014.
Vesting in 2017 for both the CIP and PSP awards depended on performance over the three years ended 31 March 2017 as well as continued service.
The following tables show the performance achieved against the targets for CIP and PSP awards granted in May 2014: CIP awards 1 Vesting Percentage 2 Performance measure Weighting No match 1:1 match 2:1 match Actual vesting Benchmark PBT annual growth 50% Below 7% 7% 14% 5.0% 0% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash 50% Below US$4.0bn US$4.3bn US$4.1bn 77% 3 flow US$4.0bn Total 38.5% PSP awards 1 Vesting Percentage 4 Performance measure Weighting 0% 25% 100% Actual vesting Benchmark PBT annual growth 75% Below 7% 7% 14% 5.0% 0% TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index 25% Below Equal 25% above 28.5% above 100% Index to Index Index Index Total 25% 1 Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
2 The maximum opportunity was a two-for-one match on the bonus deferred.
3 As per the approach taken last year, the Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow targets shown above have been adjusted compared to those originally set to take into account the impact of acquisitions and disposals made over the performance period.
The actual Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow over the performance period, of US$4,134m, is determined on a constant currency basis.
This is in line with our approach for all performance metrics, to ensure that awards are measured on a consistent basis.
4 The maximum opportunity was the original award with a face value of 200% of salary.
Vesting of these awards was also subject to the Committee agreeing that the return on capital employed ROCE performance over the period was satisfactory.
Year-end ROCE was 15.5%, and so the Committee was comfortable that the payout determined by applying the performance criteria was appropriate in the context of this level of performance.
As these awards had not vested at the date this report was finalised, we based the reported value of the awards on the average share price in the last three months of the financial year, which was 15.90.
The value of the awards included in the single total figure of remuneration is as follows: CIP PSP Value of dividend Value of equivalent Total value of Shares Shares Shares Shares shares vesting payments shares vesting awarded vesting awarded vesting 000 000 000 Brian Cassin 90,024 34,659 87,319 21,829 898 46 944 1 Lloyd Pitchford 179,375 44,844 713 36 749 Kerry Williams 82,650 31,820 101,135 25,283 US$1,125 US$67 US$1,192 1 Lloyd Pitchford joined Experian on 1 October 2014 and, as such, did not participate in the CIP in 2014.
The value of Kerry Williams shares has been converted into US dollars at a rate of 1:US$1.24, which is the average rate during the last three months of the financial year.
Dividend equivalents of 118.25 US cents per share will be paid on vested shares.
These represent the value of the dividends that would have been paid to the owner of one share between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
99 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Buyout awards for Lloyd Pitchford As previously disclosed, we granted Lloyd Pitchford a number of replacement share incentive awards buyout awards when he joined Experian in 2014, to compensate him for the long-term incentive awards he forfeited when he left his previous employer.
Whilst the Committee aimed to replicate as closely as possible the structure and vesting dates of the share awards forfeited, it was also mindful of shareholders views that vesting periods should be a minimum 12 months and that performance conditions should be applied to awards.
As such, a portion of these awards were made to Lloyd Pitchford as part of the 2014 PSP grant, and are included in the table above.
Of the other buyout awards made, the final tranche vested during the year and details of these are set out in the table below: Value of dividend equivalent Total value of Share price Value on vesting payments shares vesting Shares awarded Shares vesting Vesting date on vesting 000 0001 000 13,705 13,705 10 March 2017 16.27 223 9 232 1 Dividend equivalents of 92.25 US cents per share were payable on these awards.
The vesting of these awards was subject to satisfactory financial and business performance over the vesting period and the achievement of personal objectives.
Prior to approving the vesting of these awards, the Committee considered Lloyd Pitchfords performance in relation to his personal objectives since appointment, as well as the Groups financial and business performance, and determined that these conditions had been met.
We therefore considered that full vesting of these awards was appropriate.
The amount shown for Share-based incentives for Lloyd Pitchford in the single figure table is the sum of the PSP awards vested in respect of the year and the buyout awards, as shown in the tables above.
Update to 2016 disclosure We originally calculated the value of the share awards realised by Brian Cassin and Kerry Williams in 2016 using the average share price from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016, in line with the prescribed single figure methodology.
This has now been revised to reflect the actual share price on vesting, as follows: Three-month Estimated value Actual value average share price of long-term Share price of long-term to 31 March 2016 incentive awards on vesting incentive awards Brian Cassin 0.774m 0.860m 11.67 13.04 Kerry Williams US$1.011m US$1.132m What share-based incentive awards did we make in the year?
audited On 7 June 2016, awards were granted to the executive directors under the CIP and PSP.
The face value of awards made to Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford is given in sterling, and the face value of awards made to Kerry Williams is in US dollars.
The number of shares awarded to Kerry Williams has been calculated using the average exchange rate for the three days prior to grant of 1:US$1.24.
All awards have been calculated using a three-day average share price.
In line with the CIP rules, invested shares for Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford were purchased with their bonuses net of tax.
In line with the rules of The Experian North America Co-Investment Plan, invested shares for Kerry Williams were calculated with reference to his gross bonus.
The matching awards are based on the gross value of the bonus deferred.
100 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Details of these awards are set out in the following table: Vesting at Type of interest Face value Number of threshold in shares Basis of award 000 shares performance Vesting date Brian Cassin CIP invested shares Deferred shares 100% of net bonus 927 70,456 n a 7 June 2019 1 CIP matching shares Nil-cost options 200% of value of gross bonus deferral 3,500 265,872 1:1 match 7 June 2019 2 PSP Conditional shares 200% of salary 1,800 138,497 25% 7 June 2019 Lloyd Pitchford CIP invested shares Deferred shares 100% of net bonus 572 43,481 n a 7 June 2019 1 CIP matching shares Nil-cost options 200% of value of gross bonus deferral 2,160 164,081 1:1 match 7 June 2019 2 PSP Conditional shares 200% of salary 1,110 85,406 25% 7 June 2019 Kerry Williams CIP invested shares Deferred shares 100% of gross bonus US$1,852 97,342 n a 7 June 2019 1 CIP matching shares Conditional shares 200% of value of gross bonus deferral US$3,704 194,684 1:1 match 7 June 2019 2 PSP Conditional shares 200% of salary US$1,902 101,261 25% 7 June 2019 1 The number of shares awarded to executive directors under the CIP was based on the share price at which invested shares were purchased in the market.
2 The number of shares awarded to executive directors under the PSP was based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant, which was 13.00.
These awards will vest subject to the following performance conditions: CIP awards 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting No match 1:1 match 2:1 match Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 50% Below 4% 4% 8% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow 50% Below US$3.6bn US$3.6bn US$4.0bn PSP awards 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting 0% 25% 100% Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 75% Below 4% 4% 8% TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index 25% Below Index Equal to Index 25% above Index 1 Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
Vesting of CIP and PSP awards is subject to the Committee being satisfied that the vesting is not based on materially misstated financial results.
We also have the discretion to vary the level of vesting if we consider that the level of vesting determined by measuring performance is inconsistent with the Groups underlying financial and operational performance.
The vesting of PSP awards is also subject to the Committee agreeing that ROCE performance over the performance period is satisfactory.
We selected Benchmark PBT per share, Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow and ROCE as performance metrics for our long-term incentive plans, as they reflect three of our key performance indicators.
Using these metrics therefore directly links to Experians strategic aims and business objectives.
Using relative TSR recognises the importance of creating value for shareholders.
As such, we believe these measures to be the most appropriate measures of the Companys success.
101 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued How is the CEOs pay linked to Experians performance?
The chart below shows Experians annual TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index over the last eight years.
The FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured, as it is widely used and understood and Experian is a constituent of the index.
Value of 100 invested in Experian and the FTSE 100 on 31 March 2009 500 Experian FTSE 100 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The table below sets out the CEOs pay for the last eight financial years: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 CEO total single figure of remuneration 000 1 Don Robert US$6,729 US$5,714 US$23,206 US$22,974 US$16,290 US$620 Brian Cassin 1,976 3,678 3,627 Annual bonus paid against maximum opportunity % Don Robert 100% 98% 100% 75% 50% Brian Cassin 38% 100% 89% LTIP vesting against maximum opportunity % 2 Don Robert 70% n a 100% 100% 94% 69% Brian Cassin 40% 33% 32% 1 Prior year numbers have been updated to reflect actual long-term incentive plan outcomes.
2 No long-term incentive plan awards vested in respect of performance periods ending in 2011.
102 Governance|Annual report on remuneration What did we pay our non-executive directors during the year?
audited The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the years ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016: Fees 000 Benefits 000 Share-based incentives 000 Total 000 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1 Don Robert 600 600 20 16 1,153 1,770 1,773 2,386 2 Roger Davis 255 192 255 192 3 Caroline Donahue 42 42 4 Luiz Fleury 243 119 243 119 Deirdre Mahlan 216 197 216 197 George Rose 235 233 235 233 5 Judith Spreiser 61 168 61 168 Paul Walker 149 150 149 150 1 The share-based incentive data for Don Robert shows the value of PSP and CIP awards made to him whilst serving as Chief Executive Officer.
The 2016 figure consists of awards which vested after the 2016 report was published and, as such, the value shown for share-based incentives in that report was based on the average share price during the last three months of the financial year, of 11.67, in line with the prescribed methodology.
The share price on the vesting date was 13.04, and the share-based incentive figure shown in the table above has been updated accordingly.
In addition, Don Robert receives an unfunded pension payment from the Group of 467,311 per annum.
2 Roger Davis acted as independent Chairman of Experian Limited, which is regulated by the UK FCA.
His remuneration comprises an annual nonexecutive directors fee including a fee for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee as well as a fee for his role as independent Chairman of Experian Limited.
3 Caroline Donahue joined the Board on 1 January 2017.
4 Luiz Fleury acted as an independent adviser to Seresa S. A. our Brazilian business.
His remuneration includes a fee for this role, along with an annual nonexecutive directors fee.
5 Judith Spreiser stepped down from the Board on 20 July 2016.
Non-executive director fees are currently reviewed every two years.
As their fees were last increased with effect from 1 October 2015, they will be reviewed later in 2017.
The current fee levels are shown below: Annual fee Base fee 142,500 Audit Committee Chairman fee 43,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 34,500 Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director fee 86,000 Non-executive directors required to undertake intercontinental travel to attend Board meetings receive a supplementary payment of 6,000 per trip, in addition to any travel expenses.
This amount is unchanged since October 2009.
Don Roberts fee was set at 600,000 on his appointment as Chairman in July 2014.
This fee was due to be reviewed on 1 April 2016, however that review did not take place at Don Roberts request.
The first review of Don Roberts fee was carried out with effect from 1 April 2017, when the Committee approved a fee increase of 25,000, taking his fee to 625,000.
103 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued How has the CEOs pay changed compared to the wider workforce?
The following table sets out the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and annual bonus between 2016 and 2017, and how this compares to the average percentage change for our UK and Ireland employees.
Consistent with our approach in previous years, weve selected this group of employees because Experian operates in 37 countries and, as such, has widely varying approaches to pay across different regions.
This also avoids the complexities involved in collating and comparing remuneration data across different geographic populations, including the impact of foreign exchange rate movements.
The figures for UK and Ireland employees reflect average salaries and average employee numbers each year.
The annual bonus figure includes payments from sales incentive plans.
Base salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus CEO 2.9% 23% 9.4% UK and Ireland employees 2.6% 2.1% 7.0% How do we intend to implement the remuneration policy next year?
Salary and fees The following salary increase for our executive directors will take effect from 1 June 2017: 1 June 2017 1 June 2016 % increase Brian Cassin 925,000 900,000 2.8% Lloyd Pitchford 570,000 555,000 2.7% Kerry Williams US$975,000 US$950,000 2.6% The increases we awarded to our executive directors are in line with the increases awarded to the wider employee population across the Group c. 3%.
Annual bonus The Committees approach to operating the annual bonus plan for the year ending 31 March 2018 will be unchanged from 2017, p84 other than the introduction of a threshold level of payout as discussed in the Introduction from the Chairman section of this Report.
We will disclose the targets for this award in the 2019 Annual remuneration report.
Annual bonus awards will all be subject to clawback provisions, allowing the Company to recover all or part of any bonus paid for a period of three years from the end of the performance period.
104 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Share-based incentives The executive directors have elected to defer 100% of their bonuses into the CIP.
We expect to grant matching shares in the first quarter of the year ending 31 March 2018, on a two-for-one basis.
We also expect to grant PSP awards equivalent to 200% of salary at the same time.
Both CIP and PSP awards will vest subject to meeting the following performance conditions, measured over three years: CIP awards 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting No match 1:1 match 2:1 match 2 Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 50% Below 4% 4% 8% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow 50% Below US$3.6bn US$3.6bn US$4.0bn PSP awards 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting 0% 25% 100% 2 Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 75% Below 4% 4% 8% TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index 25% Below Index Equal to Index 25% above Index 1 Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
2 Measured on an ongoing activities and constant currency basis.
The cash flow target remains unchanged from the prior year as the growth in the business has been offset by the negative impact on cash flow of disposals and foreign exchange movements.
The target range therefore remains of a similar level of stretch to that in prior years.
Vesting of CIP and PSP awards will be subject to the Committee being satisfied that the vesting is not based on materially misstated financial results.
The vesting of PSP awards will also be subject to the Committee agreeing that ROCE performance over the period is satisfactory.
These awards will all be subject to clawback provisions, allowing the Company to recover all or part of any vested award during the 12 months after the end of the performance period.
105 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Additional disclosures Directors shareholdings and share interests audited We believe its important that executive directors build up a significant holding in Experian shares, to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Under our guidelines, the CEO should hold the equivalent of three times his base salary in Experian shares and other executive directors should hold the equivalent of two times their base salary.
These guidelines include invested or deferred shares held under the CIP, but not matching shares.
Until the shareholding guideline is met, we expect executive directors to retain at least 50% of any shares vesting net of tax under a share award.
Unvested shares dont count towards the guideline.
We also have guidelines for the non-executive directors to build up a holding in Experians shares equal to their annual fee.
Each financial year, the first quarters net fee is used to purchase Experian shares until the non-executive director reaches this holding.
All executive and non-executive directors hold shares in excess of the relevant shareholding guidelines.
The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below and there have been no changes between 31 March 2017 and the date of this report: Share awards subject Shareholding guidelines to performance conditions Shares held in Experian plc at Guideline Shareholding Guideline CIP matching PSP Share 1 2 3 31 March 2017 % of salary fee % of salary met?
2 Matching shares granted to Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford are in the form of nil-cost options, which are unvested at 31 March 2017.
Those granted to Kerry Williams are conditional share awards.
3 Share options have been granted under the all-employee Sharesave plan.
4 The number of Experian shares held by Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford at 31 March 2017 includes 117,790 and 66,488 invested shares in the CIP respectively.
5 The number of Experian shares held by Kerry Williams at 31 March 2017 includes 173,620 shares, and for Don Robert includes 89,617 shares, awarded to them under the North America Co-Investment Plan as a result of their annual bonus deferral elections, in addition to their personal beneficial shareholding.
They have an unconditional right to receive these Experian shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
These shares do not carry dividend or voting rights prior to receipt.
6 Judith Spreiser stepped down from the Board during the year, and the shareholding shown is as at 31 March 2016.
106 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Payments made to former directors audited Chris Callero Chris Callero stepped down from the Board on 16 July 2014, and remained an employee of the Group until 31 March 2015.
On 7 June 2016, a number of CIP and PSP awards made to him in 2013 vested, based on performance over the three years ended 31 March 2016.
In line with the prescribed methodology, we originally estimated the value of these shares as US$1.058m, using the average share price from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016 of 11.67.
The actual share price on the vesting date was 13.04, and the updated value is US$1.184m based on the exchange rate at the date of vesting of 1:US$1.44.
Pensions Three former directors of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc received unfunded pensions from the Group.
Two of the former directors are now paid under the Secured Unfunded Retirement Benefit Scheme, which provides security for the unfunded pensions of executives affected by the HMRC earnings cap.
The total unfunded pensions paid to the former directors was 436,725 in the year ended 31 March 2017.
Payments for loss of office audited No payments for loss of office were made in the year 2016: nil.
Executive directors non-executive directorships We recognise the value of external non-executive directorships in enabling executive directors to broaden their experience and development, which we believe ultimately benefits Experian.
In line with the Codes recommendations, the executive directors may accept one external non-executive directorship, although they may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
We allow the executive directors to keep their fees for non-executive directorship roles.
Brian Cassin was a non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc throughout the year.
Lloyd Pitchford was appointed as a non-executive director of Bunzl plc with effect from 1 March 2017.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay for all employees, compared to the financial distributions to shareholders, through dividends and earnings-enhancing share repurchases: 2017 2016 % US$m US$m change Employee remuneration costs 1,768 1,712 3.3% Dividends paid on ordinary shares 381 380 0.3% Estimated value of earnings-enhancing share repurchases 299 487 38.6 % 107 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee All of our non-executive directors are members of the Committee and met four times during the year ended 31 March 2017 to discuss remuneration.
Each of the Committees members is considered to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
The Committees roles and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: Determining Recommending to Making individual the Board senior Communicating recommendations Overseeing remuneration management with shareholders to the Board on the the Groups packages for remuneration policy on remuneration design of the Groups executive pension executive directors and the Chairmans policy.
Committee activities During the year, the Committee: Reviewed drafts of the Report on directors remuneration Considered an initial draft of the 2017 Directors remuneration policy.
The Chairman of the Committee also participated in a consultation exercise in regards to the Policy to take into account the views of our key shareholders and major investor representative bodies such as the Investment Association and ISS Approved the proposed remuneration arrangements for executive directors and key senior executives Received updates on the Companys long-term incentive plans, including in respect of performance conditions Considered and approved the vesting of the final tranche of buyout awards for the Chief Financial Officer, mentioned earlier in the report Agreed the 2016 bonus outcomes, 2017 bonus targets, and targets for long-term incentive awards made in the year as well as the participants for certain long-term incentive plans Received an update on current trends in the executive remuneration environment, focusing on the key regions in which we operate Considered remuneration matters in respect of senior hires and departures Initiated the invitation to employees to participate in the 2016 Sharesave plan, and received an update on take-up and outcomes of previous grants Reviewed the Committees performance and terms of reference.
108 Governance|Annual report on remuneration Advice provided to the Committee In making its decisions, the Committee consults the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Human Resources Director where required.
We also invite members of the Global Reward team to attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
We normally consult the Chief Financial Officer about performance conditions applying to shortand long-term incentive arrangements.
No executives are present when their own remuneration arrangements are being discussed.
The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives objective advice.
We reviewed our external advisers in 2013 and appointed Towers Watson Ltd Willis Towers Watson, who remained our external advisers throughout the year ended 31 March 2017.
Willis Towers Watson provides other services to Experian globally, which comprise advice on benefits and provision of market data.
In addition, Kepler a brand of Mercer provided incentive plan award valuations and remuneration data, as well as supporting data for the target calibration process.
Kepler does not provide any other services to the Group, although Mercer, Keplers parent company, does provide unrelated services to the Group.
Willis Towers Watson and Kepler are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operate under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
We were satisfied that their advice was objective and independent.
The fees paid to these advisers for services to the Committee in the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out in the following table, and are based on hours spent: Adviser Fees paid in 2017 Willis Towers Watson 47,056 Kepler 23,870 Statement of voting at the 2016 AGM The voting to approve last years Annual report on remuneration at the AGM held on 20 July 2016, and the Directors remuneration policy, approved at the AGM held on 16 July 2014, is set out in the following table: Votes for including discretionary votes % Votes against % Total number of Number of Number Number votes cast votes withheld 82.9% 17.1% Annual report on remuneration 2016 AGM 679,303,889 7,072,687 563,276,137 116,027,752 87.4% 12.6% Directors remuneration policy report 2014 AGM 674,271,964 12,209,840 589,190,713 85,081,251 In advance of the 2016 AGM, the Committee consulted with our largest shareholders and investor representative bodies such as the Investment Association and ISS, to understand their views on the way we intended to operate our remuneration policy over the year, and to discuss any concerns or clarify their understanding to assist them in making an informed voting decision.
The key point raised by shareholders was the disclosure of our annual bonus targets and, as a result of shareholders opinions on the matter, we have committed to disclosing targets on a retrospective basis in the future.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 17 May 2017 109
