GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Report of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Wizz Airs second full financial year as a listed company was more challenging than the first.
While demand remained strong, the lower fuel price and increased competition fed through to lower fares and, in June 2016, the United Kingdom voted in a referendum to withdraw from its membership of the European Union, causing a significant fall in the value of the British Pound, which accounts for approximately 20 per cent.
The operating environment was equally challenging, with the Company having to deal with unusually severe winter weather in Eastern Europe and a massive increase in disruption caused by industrial action by various air traffic control and airport organisations throughout the year.
Nonetheless, during the 2017 financial year the Company delivered industry-leading passenger growth of 18.9 per cent.
and increase of total revenue of 9.9 per cent.
translating to underlying net profits of 225.3 million.
At the same time, the Company remained extremely cost-focused, with its operating unit cost falling by 7.8 per cent.
The relative strength of Wizz Airs performance against its peers was reflected in a share price which, as at 31 March 2017, remained some 43 per cent.
higher than the offering price in the Companys initial public offering.
Over the year, therefore, the Directors and senior management have ensured that the Companys business has continued to deliver results that have significantly increased Shareholder value, despite the challenging industry conditions.
The Remuneration Committee remains committed to ensuring that the Companys Remuneration Policy remains an effective way to align the interests of the Directors and senior management with those of the Companys Shareholders and that it provides appropriate incentivisation to continue to deliver Shareholder value.
However, the Remuneration Committee also remains focused on the Companys ultra-low-cost business model, and the governing principle that will continue to be applied is that remuneration must be competitive whilst not being more than is necessary to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to continue to run the Company successfully, and that a significant proportion of remuneration remains performance based.
Indeed, this is a principle which is applied consistently throughout the Company for almost all employees.
As a company, we value our Shareholders feedback, including on remuneration matters.
I was pleased that last years Annual Report on Remuneration received a vote in favour from our Shareholders of 99.3 per cent.
As contemplated in the approved Directors Remuneration Policy, successful Company performance is reflected in the remuneration of the Executive Director and senior management.
Under our Short-term Incentive Plan, performance against the four measures of underlying profit after tax, ex-fuel cost per available seat kilometre CASK, on-time performance and individual performance assessment resulted in an average payout equivalent to 84.9 per cent.
The first award under the approved Long-term Incentive Plan was made during the 2016 financial year in July 2015 to officers and to heads of function.
This award is due to vest in July 2018 with level of vesting for the major part of the award based on a combination of relative total shareholder return TSR performance compared to selected European airlines and fully diluted earnings per share growth.
The second award was made during the 2017 financial year in June 2016 with similar performance conditions to that of the 2016 award.
This award is due to vest in June 2019.
Further details of the performance conditions attached to these awards are provided on page 55.
Following a review of the Companys Remuneration Policy during the year, the Remuneration Committee agreed that it remains appropriate and is aligned with the overall strategy of the Company and, therefore, no changes will be made in the year ahead.
We last increased the base salary for the CEO in the 2016 financial year following a comprehensive market review.
The Committee has determined that the CEOs base salary remains competitive and therefore no changes were proposed for the 2017 financial year and are not proposed for the 2018 financial year.
Whilst the Company is incorporated in Jersey, we have chosen voluntarily to comply in all material respects with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 and related regulations in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy, underlining the Companys commitment to adopt UK corporate governance best practice.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by Shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting in September 2015 with the intention that it should apply for three years.
Therefore, we will not be asking Shareholders to vote on the policy at this years annual general meeting, although there will be an advisory vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In line with the reporting requirements, our Remuneration Policy will be put forward to a binding Shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM following a comprehensive review and consultation with Shareholders.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 48 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Report of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued In conclusion, I would reiterate that Wizz Air continues to be proud of the strong results delivered in the 2017 financial year against a challenging industry background.
We remain committed to ensuring that our Remuneration Policy continues to incentivise delivery of outstanding results in the future, but in a way that appropriately aligns the interests of the Directors and senior management with those of the Companys Shareholders.
We believe that the approved Directors Remuneration Policy does this in a way which is consistent with the Companys current growth phase and its desire to bring simplicity to all areas of its operation.
Simplicity of process and practice reflects the Companys strategy to focus on achieving the lowest possible unit operating cost while improving customers experience.
We look forward to the continued support of our Shareholders and welcome any questions or suggestions that you may have to further align our Remuneration Policy with the interests of our investors.
Guido Demuynck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 49 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Introduction The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by Shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 29 September 2015.
The intention is that the policy, as approved, will apply until the annual general meeting to be held in 2018.
This Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration earned for the 2017 financial year in accordance with the approved Directors Remuneration Policy pages 50 to 54 and the planned application of our Remuneration Policy for the 2018 financial year pages 58 and 59.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations, which the Company has chosen to comply with in all material respects as a matter of best practice.
For transparency, we have included the approved Directors Remuneration Policy in full in this report with some minor updates to wording to provide clarification and an updated scenario chart, although there will not be a vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy at this years annual general meeting.
The definitive Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders is outlined in the Companys annual report for the 2015 financial year and is available to view at corporate.
Remuneration Policy Introduction Our principal consideration when determining the Remuneration Policy is to ensure that it supports our company strategy and business objectives, as well as to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to run the Company successfully without paying more than is necessary.
In the selection of performance measures for both the annual performance bonus and the Long-term Incentive Plan the Remuneration Committee takes into account the Groups strategic objectives and short and long-term business priorities.
The performance targets are set in accordance with the Groups annual operating plan and are reviewed annually to ensure that they are sufficiently stretching.
In selecting the targets the Remuneration Committee also takes into account analysts forecasts, economic conditions and the Remuneration Committees expectation of performance over the relevant period.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to: attract, retain and motivate executive management without paying more than is necessary: incentivise the successful execution of the Companys business strategy: and align the Executive Directors long-term interests with those of Shareholders.
Executive Director remuneration The Chief Executive Officer is currently the Companys sole Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Companys Remuneration Policy supports the Companys ultra-low-cost business model by incentivising senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer, to continue to strive to increase the Companys cost advantage while improving the customers experience.
The Chief Executive Officer currently receives a base salary and is eligible for an annual performance bonus of up to 200 per cent.
of base salary and a long-term incentive award of up to 250 per cent.
of base salary, with payments being dependent on the Company achieving certain financial and operational targets.
In deciding appropriate remuneration levels, the Remuneration Committee takes into account, among other things, the levels paid at competitor low-cost carriers.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director remuneration continued Future policy table: Executive Directors Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity sums paid Base salary To provide the core Salaries will be reviewed The Remuneration Committee reward for the role.
annually, with any increase will consider the individual To attract, retain and being awarded at the discretion salary of Executive Directors at motivate executive of the Remuneration Committee.
management without The Executive Directors salary There are no provisions for the paying more than for the 2017 financial year is recovery of sums paid or the necessary.
detailed in the Annual Report withholding of any payment on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee may take into account a number of factors in deciding whether an increase should be made, including benchmarking against selected airlines.
Benefits To attract, retain and Executive Directors are There are no provisions for the motivate executive covered by the Companys recovery of sums paid or the management without group personal accident and withholding of any payments paying more than life assurance cover, which is in relating to benefits.
place for all employees 2x salary.
Pension To attract, retain and The Company does not provide Not applicable.
motivate executive a pension scheme for the management without Executive Directors unless paying more than contributions are required necessary.
Short-term To incentivise the Payments under the Short-term Performance requirements Incentive successful execution Incentive Plan are made in are determined by the Plan of the Companys cash, subject to certain Remuneration Committee business strategy.
They are intended to To reward the requirements as determined by align the performance of the achievement of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors with the annual financial and being met and up to a Groups near-term objectives of operational goals.
maximum bonus set as a delivering against its strategy.
percentage of base salary by In particular, the performance the Remuneration Committee.
requirements incentivise the The maximum bonus for the Executive Directors to focus Chief Executive Officer is 200 on cost control to achieve per cent.
profitability targets, while Currently, these performance delivering a reliable service requirements relate to to customers.
Company profitability, on-time There are no provisions for the performance, operating cost recovery of sums paid pursuant and personal performance.
to the Short-term Incentive Plan.
Long-term To align the Executive Each year, performance shares Performance targets Incentive Directors long-term may be granted.
Awards are determined by the Plan LTIP interests with those of normally vest over a three-year Remuneration Committee and operating Shareholders.
period, subject to the vesting of the performance for the first To reward strong achievement of performance shares is subject to performance time in the financial performance targets.
The maximum face targets being met over the 2016 and sustained value of annual awards will be performance period.
financial increase in 250 per cent.
of base salary for If a participants employment year Shareholder value.
the Chief Executive Officer and ends before the end of the the Executive Director must performance period, any vested remain in office when the and unvested options will performance shares vest.
normally lapse, save in certain good leaver scenarios.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 51 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Difference in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and employees Remuneration of the Companys senior management team follows a similar pattern to that of the Executive Directors, although amounts for each component may vary.
Other employees receive remuneration judged by senior management to be appropriate for their position and experience.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The Non-Executive Directors are only paid fees.
Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity sums paid Fees To remunerate NonNon-Executive Directors are paid Not applicable: there are no Executive Directors a basic fee, plus an additional provisions for the recovery to reflect their level amount for each Board meeting of sums paid or the withholding of responsibility.
Additional fees are of any payment relating to fees.
paid for the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Board.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by the Board.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, in relation to the Chairman, and the Board, in relation to the other Non-Executive Directors, retain the flexibility to increase fee levels to ensure that they continue to appropriately reflect the experience of the individual, time commitment of the role and fee levels in comparable companies.
The fees paid to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors for the 2017 financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy The bar chart below sets out the annual remuneration package of the Chief Executive Officer, at a minimum, as a reasonable expectation and as a possible maximum in Euro : All amounts are determined in Swiss Francs CHF that for the purposes of this chart were converted into Euro at the rate of 1.070 CHF for Euro rate at 31 March 2017.
The remuneration receivable under the LTIP as shown in the table i does not assume any share price appreciation between grant and vesting: and ii for the sake of illustration it assumes that no shares would vest in the minimum scenario, 50 per cent.
of shares would vest in the expected scenario and all shares would vest in the maximum scenario.
Fixed remuneration is base salary May 2017 level annualised, being 637,383.
The annual bonus amount is zero at minimum, 637,383 at the expected level 50 per cent.
of maximum opportunity of 200 per cent.
The long-term incentive amount is zero at minimum, 796,729 at the expected level 50 per cent.
of maximum opportunity of 250 per cent.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 52 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment remuneration The remuneration package for an incoming Executive Director would reflect the principles set out above, although relocation expenses or allowances such as school fees for an Executive Director recruited from abroad may be paid as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, fee arrangements will be made in line with the policy as set out above.
Policy on payment for loss of office In the event of termination of a service contract or letter of appointment of a Director, contractual obligations will be honoured in accordance with the service contract or letter of appointment.
The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration the circumstances and reasons for departure, health, length of service and performance.
Under this policy, the Remuneration Committee may make any statutory payments it is required to make.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee may agree to payment of outpatient counselling costs and disbursements such as legal costs if considered to be appropriate and dependent on the circumstances of departure.
There are no pre-determined contractual provisions for Directors regarding compensation in the event of loss of office save for those listed in the table below.
Details of provision Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Notice period Six months notice by either party.
One months notice by either party.
Termination payment The employing company may terminate the Fees and expenses Executive Directors employment with immediate accrued up to effect by payment in lieu of notice.
The Executive Director will be paid a sum equal to six months base salary if the employing company chooses to enforce the restrictive covenants referenced below.
Upon termination of employment other than for cause, the Executive Director is entitled to a severance payment equal to six months salary in addition to any notice pay or payment in lieu of notice.
Post-termination Post-termination restrictive covenants apply for Not applicable.
covenants a period of one year following termination of employment.
No such payment for loss of office was made by the Group in the year or the prior year.
No payments of any nature were made to past directors.
Discretion, flexibility and judgment of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee operates the Short-term Incentive Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan, which include flexibility in a number of areas.
These include: the timing of awards and payments: the size of an award, within the maximum limits: the participants of the plan: the performance requirements and maximum percentages of salary to be used for the Short-term Incentive Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan from year to year: the performance conditions, performance periods and vesting periods for awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan from year to year: the assessment of whether performance requirements and or conditions have been met: the treatment to be applied for a change of control or significant restructuring of the Group: the determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of awards thereof: and the adjustments, if any, required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, corporate events and special dividends.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 53 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Legacy arrangements In approving this policy, authority is to be given to the Company to honour commitments paid, promised to be paid or awarded to i current or former Directors prior to the date of this policy being approved or ii to an individual who subsequently is appointed as a Director of the Company at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, was not in consideration of that individual becoming a Director of the Company, even where such commitments are inconsistent with the provisions of this policy.
Outstanding awards under the Companys previous 2009 international employee share option plan remain eligible for vesting and exercise in accordance with their terms.
Consideration of Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Board will consider Shareholder feedback received in relation to the annual general meeting each year at a meeting immediately following the annual general meeting and any action required will be incorporated into the Remuneration Committee's business plan for the ensuing period.
This, and any additional feedback received from Shareholders from time to time, will then be considered by the Remuneration Committee and as part of the Company's annual review of remuneration arrangements.
Specific engagement with major Shareholders may be undertaken when a significant change in Remuneration Policy is proposed.
Annual Report on Remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee were Guido Demuynck Chairman, Thierry fide Preux, and Susan Hooper.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments, and recommending and monitoring the remuneration of the senior managers.
Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
A summary of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference can be found on our corporate website, corporate.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 41 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Jzsef Vradi, the Chief Executive Officer, and Owain Jones, the Chief Corporate Officer, attend meetings by invitation and assist the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations as appropriate, though they are not present when their own compensation is discussed.
The Remuneration Committee is advised by Willis Towers Watson, which was selected following a competitive tender process led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2015.
Willis Towers Watson attends Committee meetings as and when required.
During the 2017 financial year, Willis Towers Watson received fees totalling GBP 101,496 for advice related to Remuneration Policy, governance, developments in executive pay, benchmarking and performance analysis.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Willis Towers Watson offers impartial and objective advice and brings a high degree of expertise to the Remuneration Committees discussions.
Shareholders vote on remuneration At the 2016 annual general meeting the Annual Report on Remuneration was put forward for an advisory vote.
Details of the voting outcomes are provided in the table below: Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 AGM 2016 AGM Votes for 38,578,768 99.63% 40,227,451 99.31% Votes against 141,517 0.37% 278,241 0.69% Total 38,720,285 40,505,692 Votes withheld 773,017 236,259 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 54 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration Full details of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration are set out below in Euros : Single total figure of remuneration table audited 2017 Fees and salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Jzsef Vradi 629,622 - 611,191 - - 1,240,812 2016 Fees and salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Jzsef Vradi 627,447 - 1,185,436 - - 1,812,883 Salary and bonus were paid are payable in Swiss Francs and were converted into Euros at the average rate applicable for the year salary or the rate applicable at the end of the financial year bonus.
Base salary for the CEO remained unchanged for 2017 at CHF 682,000.
There were no benefits provided to the Chief Executive Officer other than six free return tickets usable on the route network of the Group, the value of which is estimated to be 800 altogether.
Bonus is linked to three important financial and operational KPIs of the Company and to individual performance.
The measures, target performance and actual performance for 2017 were the following: Target performance Actual Payout Measures Weight Threshold Target Maximum performance ratio Profit underlying, m 67% 214.0 252.0 290.0 225.3 65% CASK ex-fuel c ASK 11% 2.38 2.32 2.26 2.25 200% On-time performance delay 15 mins 11% 76.0% 80.0% 84.0% 78.13% 77% Individual performance rating 11% 2 2 1 1 200% Aggregate payout ratio 96% There is no payment if the performance is worse than the Threshold.
At Threshold there is 50 per cent.
payment of the target At Target there is 100 per cent.
payment being equal to twelve months salary in the case of the CEO.
If the Maximum is reached or exceeded then there is 200 per cent.
As outlined earlier, the first award under the LTIP of 250 per cent.
of base salary was made to the Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year July 2015.
The award included 73,805 Performance Options, valued at GBP 15.72 per option share, that was the market price of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
The exercise price of the options is nil.
Vesting is due in July 2018 subject to meeting the following performance criteria: a relative total shareholder return TSR growth versus selected European airlines 50 per cent.
weighting : and b absolute fully diluted earnings per share EPS growth of the Company 50 per cent.
The TSR group consists of the following entities: Ryanair and EasyJet 50 per cent.
weighting : AirFrance-KLM, Air Berlin, Deutsche Lufthansa, Finnair, Flybe, IAG and SAS 50 per cent.
Aer Lingus has been removed from the group following acquisition by IAG and subsequent delisting in September 2015.
of the award will vest for median performance and 100 per cent.
of the award will vest for performance equal to or exceeding the upper quartile.
There will be no vesting for performance below median and linear interpolation will apply for performance between the median and upper quartile.
With respect to the EPS growth measure, 25 per cent.
of the award will vest for threshold average annual growth of 14 per cent.
will vest for target average annual growth of 17 per cent.
will vest for maximum average annual growth of 20 per cent.
Linear interpolation will apply for performance between threshold and target and target and maximum.
A second award under the LTIP of 250 per cent.
of base salary was made to the Chief Executive Officer during the 2017 financial year June 2016.
This award included 85,270 Performance Options, valued at GBP 14.80 per option share at date of grant.
Vesting is due in June 2019 and is subject to the same performance criteria as the first award.
However, the EPS threshold, target and maximum average annual growth rates were revised slightly versus the July 2015 grant to 14.2 per cent.
No remuneration is shown for LTIP options in the table above for single total figure of remuneration, because as explained above final vesting of these options is not determined as a result of achievement of performance targets relating to the 2016 financial year or 2017 financial year.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 55 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration continued As outlined in the 2015 annual report, 1,920,075 share options were issued to the Chief Executive Officer during the 20052011 calendar years from the previous long-term incentive plan ESOP of the Company.
Of these, 1,755,075 were exercised during the 2015 financial year.
The remaining 165,000 vested options had not been exercised as at 31 March 2016 and are exercisable any time until April 2021.
The following performance graph shows the Companys total shareholder return compared to the FTSE 250 index for the last two financial years following IPO.
TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Source: DataStream Return Index 1 Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over three years FTSE 250 comparison based on one month average of trading day values.
In the tables below we provide a five-year overview of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration and the change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared to that of all employees.
Five-year overview of Chief Executive Officer remuneration Performance bonus LTIP shares Single figure achieved vesting of total against against remuneration maximum maximum Financial year Euro possible possible 2013 533,398 - N A 2014 1,462,212 97% N A 2015 1,607,587 91% N A 2016 1,812,883 95% N A 2017 1,240,812 48% N A Share options were last issued to the CEO in the 2012 financial year.
The vesting period was three years but there were no performance conditions other than being in employment during the vesting period.
Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to that of all other employees Chief Executive Officer Total employees 2017 2016 Change Change Salary and fees 629,622 627,447 0.3% 1.9% Benefits - - N A -55.8% -48.4% -63.7% Bonus 611,191 1,185,436 Total remuneration 1,240,812 1,812,883 -31.6% -2.9% Benefits represented an insignificant part, approximately only 1 per cent.
of the employee pay in these two years.
Per employee, excluding the Chief Executive Officer.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 56 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration continued Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to that of all other employees continued In 2017 the lower level of payout on the bonus Short-term Incentive Plan caused the decrease in the total remuneration both for the Chief Executive Officer and for other employees.
This impact was stronger for other employees than for the Chief Executive Officer because i two Officer positions were unfilled at the end of the year hence no bonus was payable for these: and ii not only the aggregate amount of the bonus got lower but also the total number of employees increased during the year, most of whom are not entitled for bonus.
Total employee remuneration changed from 68.6 million in the 2016 financial year to 77.9 million in the 2017 financial year see Note 7 to the financial statements, being a 13.5 per cent.
This was driven also by the 21.1 per cent.
increase in employee numbers excluding rented pilots.
There were no dividends or share buybacks either in the 2017 financial year or the 2016 financial year, and therefore disclosure of relative importance of spend on pay has not been included.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid only Directors fees, full details of which are set out below: Single total figure of remuneration table audited 2017 Fees and salary Total Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension - - - - William A. Franke 67,500 67,500 - - - - Stephen L. Johnson 37,500 37,500 - - - - John R. Wilson 40,000 40,000 - - - - Thierry fide Preux 42,500 42,500 - - - - John McMahon 42,500 42,500 - - - - Simon Duffy 58,750 58,750 - - - - Guido Demuynck 52,500 52,500 - - - - Susan Hooper 40,000 40,000 Wioletta - - - - Rosoowska 33,333 33,333 Total 414,583 - - - - 414,583 Joined on 1 June 2016.
Total Directors remuneration Executive and Non-Executive audited Total remuneration of Directors for the period was 1,655,395 2016: 2,232,861.
This is the sum of the two single figure tables set out above.
Our Conflict of Interest policy prohibits any other employment for all employees on top of the employment at Wizz.
Therefore in case of the Chief Executive Officer any additional directorship would require specific permission of the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is not a member of any other board.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 57 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors shareholdings The Chief Executive Officer holds a significant shareholding in the Company through a family trust and is also eligible to participate in the Companys Long-term Incentive Plan.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than Susan Hooper and Wioletta Rosoowska, is also a Shareholder in the Company, following awards made under a historic non-executive share scheme and or the purchase of shares with the relevant Directors own cash.
No new share plan awards have been made since July 2013 or will be made in the future under this historic share scheme.
The Company therefore believes that the interests of the Directors are well aligned with those of the Shareholders.
Full details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in the Companys shares as at 31 March 2017 are set out below: Directors and connected persons interests in shares audited Direct ownership Interests Total Number of Number of Number of Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Convertible Share Director Shares Shares Shares interests 1 82,917 10,815,383 10,898,300 William A. Franke 44,830,503 2 Jzsef Vradi 10,500 2,020,500 - 2,031,000 66,384 66,384 Thierry fide Preux - - 5,250 5,250 Guido Demuynck - - Simon Duffy 5,250 - - 5,250 52,750 52,750 Stephen L. Johnson - - John Mc Mahon 14,750 - - 14,750 John R. Wilson 59,083 - - 59,083 1 Mr Franke is deemed to be interested in all of the Ordinary Shares and Convertible Shares held by Indigo Hungary LP, Indigo Maple Hill LP, Indigo Hungary Management LLC and Bigfork Partners LLC for the purposes of section 96B of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP also hold Convertible Notes that, subject to certain conditions, are convertible to Ordinary Shares of the Company.
2 Mr Vradi is deemed to be interested in the Ordinary Shares held by his family trust companies.
Mr Vradis family trust company also holds 165,000 vested share options with an exercise price of GBP1.90 per share.
There has been no change to the interests of each of the Directors set out above since 31 March 2017 to the date of the notice of the 2017 annual general meeting.
Application of the Remuneration Policy in the 2018 financial year a Chief Executive Officers base salary The Committee has determined that the CEOs base salary remains competitive and, therefore, no changes are proposed for the 2018 financial year.
b Short-term Incentive Plan The Chief Executive Officer is eligible to receive a cash bonus of up to 200 per cent.
of base salary in respect of the 2018 financial year.
The actual cash bonus received will depend on the achievement of certain performance criteria including underlying profit after tax 67 per cent.
exfuel cost per available seat kilometre 11 per cent.
and personal evaluation 11 per cent..
The Remuneration Committee believes that the specified performance criteria are sufficiently challenging compared to the Companys business plan.
The annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore will be disclosed in the 2018 Remuneration Report following the completion of the financial year provided that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
c Long-term Incentive Plan An award of performance shares of up to 250 per cent.
of base salary will be made to the Chief Executive Officer around June 2017 and after the date of this report.
Awards will vest following a three-year performance period and be subject to the same type of performance criteria as the 2016 award, and details will be confirmed after the date of grant.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 58 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Application of the Remuneration Policy in the 2018 financial year continued d Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees There will be no increases to fees for our Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
As outlined in the 2015 financial year annual report, the Non-Executive Directors receive a fee of 25,000 per annum, plus 2,500 for each full Board meeting attended.
Simon Duffy, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, receives an additional fee of 18,750 per annum for taking on that role.
Guido Demuynck, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, receives an additional fee of 12,500 per annum for taking on that role.
William A. Franke, as Chairman, receives an additional fee of 25,000 per annum for taking on that role.
The Non-Executive Directors will also be reimbursed for all proper and reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties.
Other disclosures Directors service agreement and letters of appointment Executive Director The Chief Executive Officer entered into a new service agreement with the Geneva branch of Wizz Air Hungary Ltd. WAHL on 15 December 2015, for a period of five years, subject to earlier termination upon six months notice by either party.
WAHL also has the right to terminate Mr Vradis employment with immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice.
The service agreement contains post-termination restrictive covenants preventing Mr Vradi from competing with WAHL or any of its business partners in the EU as well as those non-EU countries where WAHL operates, for a period of one year following the termination of his employment.
Mr Vradi will be paid a sum equal to six months base salary if WAHL chooses to enforce these restrictive covenants.
Upon termination of employment other than for cause, Mr Vradi is entitled to a severance payment equal to six months salary in addition to any notice pay or payment in lieu of notice.
Non-Executive Directors The Company entered into letters of appointment with each of its Non-Executive Directors on 4 June 2014, which became effective on completion of the IPO for a term of three years.
Each Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by the Company or the Non-Executive Director with one months written notice.
Continuation of the appointment is contingent on continued satisfactory performance and re-election at the Companys annual general meetings and the appointment will terminate automatically on the termination of the appointment by the Shareholders or, where Shareholder approval is required for the appointment to continue, the withholding of approval by the Shareholders.
Re-appointment will be reviewed annually.
In accordance with the terms of the letters of appointment, each of the Non-Executive Directors is required to allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Each letter of appointment contains obligations of confidentiality which have effect both during the appointment and after termination.
On behalf of the Board Guido Demuynck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2017 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 59
