Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the AIC Code or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not The directors place a high degree of importance on reported further in respect of these provisions.
Other ensuring that high standards of corporate governance areas of non-compliance with the AIC Code by the are maintained and have therefore chosen to comply Company, and the reasons therefore, are as follows: with the provisions of the AIC Code of Corporate there is no separate remuneration committee, which Governance for Investment Companies published isnot in accordance with the AIC Code.
Given that the inFebruary 2015 AIC Code.
Board is comprised of six independent directors and two directors affiliated with the Investment Manager, The Board of the Company has considered the itis felt that it is appropriate for the whole Board to principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by consider these matters: reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as the Board has not formalised a policy on diversity.
The explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles Board has renewed its commitment to appointing the set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well best applicant for any Board positions becoming open as setting out additional principles and recommendations and may use external search consultants if required to on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
ensure that there is a strong and varied pool of applicants.
The Boards priority is to ensure that it is composed The Board considers that reporting against the principles ofdirectors with a broad balance of skills, experience and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by and opinions.
reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UKCorporate Governance Code, will provide better the Board has not formalised a policy on tenure, which information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code is not in accordance with the AIC code.
This is because and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
the Board would like to retain the flexibility to consider the balance of skills and experience of the Board as The Company has complied with the recommendations awhole in order to manage changes to the Boards of the AIC Code except as set out below.
composition in accordance with the circumstances The UK Corporate Governance Code includes ofthe Company.
The Board has agreed to keep the provisions relating to: matter under review.
the role of the chief executive: Directors Remuneration Report executive directors remuneration: and An ordinary resolution for the approval of this Directors Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders at the the need for an internal audit function.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as There are no long term incentive schemes provided by the explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company and no performance fees are paid to directors.
Board considers these provisions not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally-managed No director has a service contract with the Company investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys however each director is appointed by a letter of appointment day-to-day management and administrative functions which sets out the terms of the appointment.
are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no full time executive directors, no direct employees 72 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Directors are remunerated in the form of fees, payable The Companys Articles limit the fees payable to directors quarterly in arrears, to the director personally.
Francesca Barnes was below details the fees paid to each director of the appointed on 3 April 2017 and is entitled to remuneration Company for the year ended 31 January 2017. of $60,500 per annum.
Director Role Fees Signed on behalf of the Board by: Sir Michael Bunbury Chairman, $198,000 Independent plus Director $12,000 expenses and Sir Michael Bunbury $50,000 Chairman ad-hoc fee Keith B. Corbin Audit Committee $66,000 Chairman, Senior Independent Director Alan C. Hodson Independent $60,500 Director Keith Corbin Andrew W. Moore Independent $60,500 Chairman of the Audit Committee Director 11 May 2017 Jean-Bernard Schmidt Independent $60,500 Director D. Brooks Zug Director Nil Peter G. Wilson Director Nil Total $507,500 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73
