Governance Directors Remuneration Report Part 1: Annual Statement Since our last Remuneration Policy was approved, Shire has transformed itselfinto the leading global biotech company focused onrare diseases.
Membership and meetings Dear shareholder, targets for our teams, pushing ourselves As at December 31, 2017, the tomeet the highest possible financial goals I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Committee comprised during this time of transformation, some Remuneration Report DRR for the seven independent Non-Executive ofwhich were clearly aspirational.
While financial year ending December 31, 2017.
Directors, each appointed on the basis weare proud of our accomplishments in Since becoming the new Chairman of oftheir knowledge and experience of 2017 and believe that we have continued Shires Remuneration Committee on matters relating to compensation.
tochampion our patients, we acknowledge August 3, 2017, I have been working that this success is not fully reflected in Committee member Date of appointment closelywith Anne Minto, its former ourshare price.
1 Albert Stroucken Jun 7, 2016 Chairman, toensure a smooth succession, Dominic Blakemore Feb 15, 2017 and to gainaclear understanding of Shires Our business model continues to evolve shareholder views.
I would like to thank aswe invest in our infrastructure in order Olivier Bohuon Apr 28, 2016 Anne for her help in enabling a successful tocontinue to grow.
For 2018, we anticipate William Burns Mar 15, 2010 transition and for sharing the deep gross margin will be impacted by a few Ian Clark Feb 15, 2017 institutional knowledge she has gained factors, including start-up costs related Steven Gillis Oct 1, 2012 overher tenure as Chairman.
toour Covington, Georgia, manufacturing 2 Anne Minto Jun 16, 2010 facility, a significant strategic investment This has been another year of significant Sara Mathew Dec 3, 2015 Feb 15, 2017 inimmunology.
This evolution has also growth and continued change for Shire.
formed part of our presentation to investors 1 Mr. Stroucken was appointed as Chairman Assuch, I would like to provide you with ofthe Committee on August 3, 2017, having at the 2018 JP Morgan Healthcare anoverview of the major decisions the previously served as a member of the conference, where we provided a revised Committee took during 2017, the context Committee.
outlook for sales and our anticipated tax rate 2 Ms. Minto stepped down as Chairman of the inwhich these decisions were made, and under U. S. Tax Reform by 2020, reflecting Committee on August 3, 2017, and continues the changes to the Executive Directors toserve as a member of the Committee.
this change in our business model.
This revised outlook for sales, in Details of Committee meeting attendance Since our last Remuneration Policy was combination with the wider changes in can be found on page 64.
At the invitation approved, Shire has transformed itself ourbusiness model, also has implications of the Committee Chairman, additional intothe leading global biotech company for our earnings and returns trajectories meeting attendees during the year focused on rare diseases by employing forthe next three years.
These implications included the Chairman of the Board and astrategy of organic and inorganic growth.
are reflected in the disclosed targets for other Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Acquisitions such as Baxalta, Dyax, NPS NetProduct Sales, Non GAAP diluted Executive Officer and members of the and ViroPharma have reshaped the Earnings Per ADS Non GAAP diluted EPS following group functions: Company dramatically in terms of size, and Non GAAP adjusted Return on global footprint, pipeline diversity and Human Resources Invested Capital ROIC which are proposed progress, employee headcount and talent Legal and Company Secretarial under the 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan profile.
As a result, 2017 was Shires first Finance LTIP.
The Committee has considered fullfinancial year as a transformed these carefully and is satisfied that the company: the undisputed global leader performance ranges set for 2018 remain intreating rare diseases.
very stretching in the context of the revised With this transformation, Shire addressed business expectations.
several challenges, including streamlining It is very important for the Committee to our business model, office consolidations ensure that the awards and actual realized and a strategic review of ourneuroscience remuneration under the Executive Annual business and manufacturing locations.
As Incentive EAI and LTIP are reflective of we commenced 2017, we set aggressive 78 Shire Annual Report 2017 corporate performance, the Companys help Shire continue to chart its course, Index to the Directors strategy and the shareholder experience.
bothin the financial discipline and expertise Remuneration Report For the 2017 EAI outcomes, it was needed to navigate our business strategy, determined that the CEOs and CFOs and in successful drug discovery and This report has been prepared in awards would be 123 percent of target in development.
compliance with Schedule 8 of the Large line with the overall EAI corporate funding and Medium-sized Companies and Groups As communicated to shareholders in last score, and that no personal multiplier would Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 years DRR, the Committee has undertaken be applied.
The 2015 LTIP award vested at as amended by the2013 Regulations the a comprehensive review of our 38 percent of maximum, reflecting actual Schedule 8 Regulations, as well as the Remuneration Policy within this context performance over the past three years Companies Act 2006 and other related oftransformation.
As we considered the against the Net Product Sales and Non regulations.
This report is set out in the strategic drivers at Shire, coupled with GAAP EBITDA performance metrics and following keysections: feedback we have received from many the Non GAAP adjusted ROIC underpin.
ofour shareholders, the Committees Part 1: Annual Statement 78 In the chart below, we have listed the principles that guided its decisions a Our remuneration at a glance 83 CEOs LTIP awards that have vested over impacting the policy were: Part 2: Directors the past three years and the current values Remuneration Policy 86 Simplicity of these awards as a percentage of their a Executive Director original face value at grant.
These three Seek transparency in design and remuneration policy 86 years represent the performance period, communication.
b Cha irman and Non-Executive which also has an additional two-year Directorremuneration policy 91 post-vest holding period for awards granted Alignment c Recruitment remuneration policy 92 under our 2015 Policy, resulting in a d Service contracts and termination Ensure pay outcomes mirror the five-year time horizon.
As you can see from arrangements 93 shareholder experience.
the chart below, the actual compensation e Remuneration scenarios 94 delivered to the Executive Directors does f Shareholder engagement 95 Prioritize strategic corporate show alignment with the shareholder g R emuneration of other employees 95 performance experience, in that the current value of the 2014 and 2015 awards is less than 50 Part 3: Annual Report Link individual pay outcomes clearly with percent of the face value at grant.
a I mplementation of Directors Current valuation of CEOs LTIP Integrated global business Remuneration Policy in 2018 96 awardsvesting over the past three years b 2017 single total figure of 1,2 as a percentage of value at grant Recognize Shires international business remuneration for Executive footprint and market for talent.
Directors subject to audit 99 100% c Other audited disclosures 101 Flexibility d 2017 single total figure of Enable the policy to support potential remuneration for the Chairman business changes over time.
and Non-Executive Directors subject to audit 104 38% e Departure Arrangements for By taking the time to consider all elements Jeff Poulton subject to audit 105 of the Policy carefully through this lens, the 10% f Payments to past Directors Committee has taken the opportunity to subject to audit 105 ensure that the Remuneration Policy for 2013 2014 2015 g Non-audited disclosures 106 Executive Directors outlined in this report, supports the Companys strategic direction 1 Represents awards granted in 2013, 2014, and The Directors Remuneration Policy 2015 and vesting in 2016, 2017, and 2018 and continues to drive growth and create respectively.
Awards comprise Stock Part 2 will be subject to a binding shareholder value.
As a result of this review, Appreciation Rights SARs and Performance shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM to we are presenting a new Remuneration Share Units PSUs subject to relevant obtain approval for a period of three Policy for shareholder approval at the 2018 performance conditions.
In the case of the 2013 yearseffective following the AGM.
The and 2014 awards, no vested PSUs have been Annual General Meeting AGM.
sold and no vested SARs have been exercised.
remainder of this report will be subject 2 Current value is based on the Q4 2017 average toan advisory shareholder vote at the closing ADS price of $148.21.
As Shire has transformed as a business, our Executive Committee has also changed.
We are pleased to announce the expected appointment of a new Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer CFO, Thomas Dittrich, who is due to commence his role on March 19, 2018, as well as a new pre-eminent Head of Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Andreas Busch.
These critical roles will Shire Annual Report 2017 79 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Context for the Remuneration shareholders and proxy advisory bodies.
This change also responds Policy review Overall, shareholders recognized that Shire to concerns that performance-based SARs As Shire executes its strategic plan, it was evolving to the next stage as an are overly complex and lack transparency.
iscritical that the remuneration structure organization, and positively indicated that The performance cycle of the proposed supports Shires goals over the next the new design was best positioned to PSU program will continue to be measured Remuneration Policy period.
The imperatives support Shires strategic agenda.
The over a three-year period followed by a for the business over this period include: feedback we received was valuable and two-year post-vest holding period.
This influenced the development of the new Leverage rare disease platform means shares will only be released to Remuneration Policy.
participants five years after grant.
Performance improvement and product New Remuneration Policy: Summary sales growth 2.
A lignment of performance measures of key changes from current policy within the EAI and LTIP to Shires Establish & begin operating as two The key elements of the new Remuneration strategic imperatives divisions: Rare disease division and Policy that differ from thecurrent Given our sharp focus on product sales Neuroscience division arrangements are: growth, cost efficiencies and debt Pipeline progression 1.
S implification of LTIP vehicles pay-down, the Committee has realigned bydiscontinuing the use of the performance metrics that our Executive Expand leadership position in core performance-based Stock Directors incentives will be measured therapeutic areas Appreciation Rights SARs and under in both the EAI and LTIP.
Drive further cost efficiencies and consolidating LTIP delivery into EAI performance measures margin improvement onesingle vehicle Performance Underscoring the importance of our Share Units PSUs financial performance, we have Debt pay-down Shire has previously granted a blend of increased the weightings of our financial performance-based SARs and PSUs metrics to 80 percent: non-financial under the LTIP.
While this mix was metrics will be weighted 20 percent.
The Board believes the achievement of historically appropriate for the business Recognizing the dynamic nature of these strategic pillars will enable Shire to based on Shires size and development Shires business, and to provide flexibility continue to deliver long-term sustainable stage, the Committee has determined in the near-term, the Committee retains growth and shareholder value.
thatfuture awards under the LTIP should discretion to vary the metrics of the be made exclusively in PSUs to ensure As we move into the detailed policy performance measures as the business alignment with key financial metrics.
changes outlined below, we would like to may require over the next three years.
Theconsolidation of performance-based thank the shareholders who engaged in SARs into PSUs significantly simplifies the consultation in late 2017.
During this time, LTIP for both participants and we met with more than 30 of our largest The proposed EAI performance measures and the rationale for their selection are set out in the table below.
Financials 80 percent Rationale Net Product Sales 1 3rd Aligned with growth strategy Drives focus on balance of top-line and bottom-line performance outcomes Non GAAP diluted EPS 1 3rd Encompasses growth commitment made under Baxalta deal Use of Non GAAP diluted EPS reflects current leverage and capital intensive nature of the business Non GAAP Free Cash Flow 1 3rd Drives focus on debt management Over the longer term, provides liquidity for future acquisitions and strategic investments in our product portfolio Non-Financials 20 percent Rationale Growth Innovation Focus on up to five equally weighted key corporate objectives and pipeline milestones aligned with Shires strategic pillars Efficiency People 80 Shire Annual Report 2017 LTIP performance measures for our shareholders over the long-term, The proposed 2018 LTIP performance We have listened to shareholder views, and believe the combination of these measures are: raised during the consultation process, metrics is directly aligned with the Net Product Sales about the importance of retaining ROIC shareholder experience.
The inclusion of Non GAAP diluted EPS asa metric within our LTIP, alongside arelative TSR metric in the LTIP will better Non GAAP adjusted ROIC theoriginally proposed relative Total reflect near-term feedback on the execution Relative TSR Shareholder Return TSR measure.
of our M&A strategy, while ROIC will reward Weremain committed toensuring Shires continued development of our returns investments in the business enhance value trajectory over time.
Measure and weighting Rationale Net Product Sales Aligned with growth strategy 20 percent Drives focus on balance of top-line and bottom-line performance outcomes Encompasses growth commitment made under Baxalta deal Non GAAP diluted EPS 20 percent Non GAAP adjusted ROIC Reflects long-term returns on strategic and M&A decisions 20 percent Alignment with shareholder value creation and delivery of returns over the longer term Relative TSR Direct alignment with creating shareholder value and the importance of delivering returns to 40 percent shareholders over time Reflects market perspective on success of M&A strategy Stock price performance against investor peers reflects real-time feedback of business results Relative TSR is a more transparent market-based metric to measure performance against without the need to adjust for significant events when transactions occur A custom peer group of global life sciences bonuses under this model, we are between our listing in the UK and our companies will form the constituents of the proposing to simplify the plan, so that we headquarters in the U. S. where most of relative TSR peer group.
The use of an will determine the Executive Directors EAI our employees are located and where the industry-specific peer group means the based solely on the outcome of corporate majority of Shires operations are based.
Executive Directors are rewarded only for performance, with 80 percent weighted on We believe that we are unique as a strong performance relative to those peer financial performance and 20 percent UK-listed business, insofar as key Executive companies Shire is competing against for weighted on non-financial performance.
Committee members are based in the U. S. investment capital.
To create this focused Webelieve this approach ties the EAI The need to compete for talent in the U. S. list, we selected peer companies based on award more directly to overall corporate biotech market is therefore a material reality for the Shire business, which is very closeness of comparison to Shire in size, performance, and provides greater different from the majority of FTSE-listed complexity and operations.
Selection to transparency to shareholders by placing organizations.
In this context, the these criteria resulted in a group of 20 peer more weighting on empirical financial data.
Committee has determined the maximum companies please see page 97 in Part 3 a 4.
D ecrease in the maximum LTIP LTIP award level recognizing the historic for the proposed TSR peer group.
facevalue annualaward in light opportunity under the previous policy, the 3.
I mprovement of the link between ofshareholder feedback, while upper quartile of the FTSE 50 market and strategic corporate performance and recognizing the global talent market the lower quartile of our biopharmaceutical Executive Directors pay outcomes within which Shire competes competitors the majority of whom are under the EAI The maximum annual award under the based in the U.
The proposed amount Under the previous Remuneration Policy, proposed new LTIP is 600 percent face isintended to balance the competitive we calculated the EAI for the Executive value of salary, a significant reduction tension across these two markets.
Directors in two parts: we determined fromthe previous maximum award of 840 The Committee is, however, very conscious corporate funding of the EAI based on percent.
This reduced award level reflects of shareholder sensitivity to levels awarded financial performance at 75 percent the exchange from performance-based toExecutive Directors and will continue weighting, and non-financial performance SARs into PSUs, and also recognizes the toconsider the actual level of award to at 25 percent weighting.
This score could feedback received from a number of bemade each year depending on the be modified down to 0 percent or up to shareholders on the maximum award performance of the business and associated 200percent based on individual Executive opportunity under the previous LTIP.
For 2018, the Committee agreed Director performance.
Given shareholder In setting the revised LTIP award level, upon an LTIP award for the CEO with a face feedback regarding the complexity of theCommittee has considered carefully value of 425 percent of base salary.
howwe determined Executive Directors thevery real tension Shire experiences Shire Annual Report 2017 81 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued LTIP awards Mr. Dittrich will be delivered under his 2015 LTIP award 5.
I ncrease in the shareholding granted a 2018 LTIP award with a face from his previous employer.
The award guidelines to U. S. aligned levels value of 357 percent of base salary.
will have a face value of CHF 1,320,000 Under the new Remuneration Policy upon grant, and will vest after one year theshareholding requirements will be Retirement and other benefits 2019 based on the actual disclosed increased to 500 percent of base salary Mr. Dittrich will also be eligible for performance in his previous employers forthe CEO and 300 percent for the CFO, retirement and other benefits consistent 2018 compensation report published in from 200 percent and 150 percent with his role and location.
It should be noted that our Shire, he will be based in Zug, To replace his forfeited 2016 LTIP CEOs current shareholding is equal to 788 Switzerland, before relocating to the award, he will be eligible to receive percent of salary as at December 31, 2017.
U. S. During his time in Switzerland, he areplacement award of Shire PSUs will receive retirement and other benefits The Committee firmly believes Shires granted upon joining based on the aligned with other Swiss Executive Executive Directors should have a maximum opportunity face value that Committee members.
This will include significant portion of their wealth in can be delivered under his 2016 LTIP aretirement benefits contribution of Company shares, as this aligns them award, as disclosed in his previous 14percent of base salary.
Upon his withthe shareholder experience over employers 2016 compensation report.
relocation to the U. S. Mr. Dittrich will thelong-term.
Given that shareholder This award will have a face value of receive retirement and other benefits requirements in the U. S. are generally CHF 1,000,000 and will vest after aligned with other U. S. Executive moredemanding than those in the UK, threeyears 2021, subject to the Committee members, which will weare increasing our Executive Directors achievement of Shires 2018 LTIP comprise a retirement benefits shareholding requirements to be set at U. S. performance measures.
contribution of 20 percent of base competitive levels, to recognize the U. S. salary, representing a decrease from Relocation assistance Mr. Dittrich UK balance we have tried to engender theprevious CFOs retirement benefits will also be eligible for relocation within our LTIP design, both in terms of contribution of 25 percent of base salary.
assistance in connection with his quantum and structure.
permanent relocation to the U. S. in Replacement awards Mr. Dittrich Departure of CFO linewith the policy that applies to all willbe entitled to the following cash Jeff Poulton, the Companys former employees across the organization.
andequity grants to reflect the awards CFO, left theCompany on December 31, Thedetails of the relocation assistance forfeited by him on his departure from 2017.
Full details of the treatment of his provided will be reported within the hisprevious employment.
In determining remuneration on departure are set out in remuneration reports as appropriate, the amount and structure of these Part 3 e of this report, and I can confirm forthe year to which it relates.
commitments, the Committee sought that the decisions the Committee took toreplicate the fair values and timing of Concluding remarks werewithin the terms of the current the compensation foregone, in line with I would like to thank my fellow members Remuneration Policy.
best practice and the approved ofthe Remuneration Committee for their Joining arrangements for new CFO Remuneration Policy.
commitment and engagement in what has The Committee considered in detail the been an intensive year for the Committee, To replace his 2017 annual bonus remuneration arrangements for Mr. Dittrich, necessitating many additional meetings.
foregone, he will receive a replacement to ensure they were in the best interests Iwould also like to thank Anne Minto for her award equal to the value of the bonus ofthe Company and its shareholders, tremendous leadership of the Committee he would have received from his andappropriate to secure his appointment to over the past eight years.
Anne will retire previous employer based on the Shire.
These are set out below ahead ofhis from the Board with effect from the financial performance disclosed in expected appointment on March 19, 2018. conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
In addition, their2017 compensation report Iwould like to thank both the Shire and Base salary On appointment to multiplied by Mr. Dittrichs 2017 target PwC teams for their continued hard work ChiefFinancial Officer, Mr. Dittrichs bonus less the value of any payment and support.
I welcome the opportunity to remuneration will comprise an annual received.
The forfeited bonus would serve as the Chairman of the Remuneration base salary of CHF 750,000, reflecting have been delivered fully in cash by his Committee and look forward to continued the deep wealth of knowledge and previous employer, but the Committee dialog and engagement.
experience he brings to the role.
This is considered it would be appropriate below the lower quartile for comparable todeliver the value using the same roles in the FTSE 50 excluding financial mechanism as Shires EAI, with 75 services and below the median of the percent payable in cash and 25 Companys global industry peer group.
percent deferred intoShire shares Albert Stroucken which would not be released for three EAI opportunity Mr. Dittrichs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee years together with shares annualbonus opportunity for the 2018 representing accumulated dividends.
performance year will be 160 percent of base salary at maximum and 80 percent To replace his forfeited 2015 LTIP of base salary at target, in line with the award, he will be eligible to receive a previous CFOs level.
replacement award of Shire shares upon joining based on the maximum opportunity face value that can be 82 Shire Annual Report 2017 Governance Our remuneration at a glance Remuneration Policy guiding principles The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy has been developed in light of the following guiding principles depicted below which actas a framework for the remuneration decisions across the whole Company.
Simplicity Alignment Strategic corporate Integrated global Flexibility Seek transparency Ensure pay outcomes performance business Support potential inboth design and mirror the shareholder Link individual pay Recognize Shires changes in business communication to experience outcomes clearly with international business priorities over time internal and external Company performance footprint and market stakeholders fortalent These act as a framework for remuneration decisions across the Company.
Overall remuneration The structure and quantum of individual remuneration packages varies by geography, role and level of responsibility.
In general, the proportion of variable remuneration in the total remuneration packages increases with the level of responsibility within the Company.
Fixed elements Short-term incentives Long-term incentives base salary & benefits For Executive Directors short-term Discretionary long-term equity awards Employees base salaries are incentives, assessment is made against are made on an annual basis dependent benchmarked against the external acorporate scorecard of key performance on an employees level of responsibility market, taking into account the measures built around Shires key within the Company and individual geographic location and relevant size financial goals and other strategic performance and potential.
ofthe companies with whom we are priorities for the relevant year.
For Executive Directors and Executive competing with for talent.
This same scorecard is appropriately Committee members, all awards vest For example, market data for the most used by each business and corporate atthe end of a three-year period.
senior leadership roles, in particular function to ensure alignment with For the rest of the employee population, theExecutive Committee, reflects both corporate goals, and also funds shortphased vesting of awards occurs over the geographies in which we operate term incentives across the Company.
aperiod of three years with the majority with more than two thirds of employees Scorecard targets are further used as vesting at the end of the three-year as well as the majority of senior abasis for determination of each period except for PSU awards which management based in the U. S. and employees performance objectives, with vest at the end of a three-year period companies of a comparable size in the annual incentive awards payable in cash, subject to the satisfaction of pharmaceutical and biotechnology strongly differentiated based on individual performance conditions.
performance through linkages with the Base salary increases across the performance management system.
Company are determined in light of similar factors as described for the Executive Directors.
Retirement and other benefit arrangements are provided to employees with appropriate consideration of market practice andgeographical differences.
Shire Annual Report 2017 83 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Summary of pay and performance for 2017 2017 Business performance Key strategic highlights Increased product sales to $14.4 billion, while executing 50 launches globally Completed manufacturing network optimization program: anticipate cumulative savings of $2 billion through 2027 Exceeded internal goals and external benchmarks for synergies from the integration of Baxalta Continued to execute on our pipeline of 40 clinical development programs, completing nine Phase 3 studies and securing 126productapprovals Performance outcomes Short-term incentives EAI 1 Description Weighting Metric Target Outcome Overall funding score Financial 75 percent Net Products Sales $14,640m $14,449m 22% Non GAAP EBITA $5,937m $6,052m 36% 2 Non GAAP adjusted ROIC 6.49% 6.57% 22% Pipeline & Pre-commercial 15 percent Growth 110% 28% Non-Financial Innovation 107% 100% Organizational Effectiveness 10 percent Efficiency 109% 16% Non-Financial People 103% Overall bonus funding 123% Note: Results and bonus funding scores have been rounded to the nearest whole percentage and therefore individual totals may not add up to the overall bonus funding score of 123 percent.
1 Every one percent change in the outcome achieved results in a 10 percent increase decrease in funding.
2 The disclosed Non GAAP adjusted ROIC target range incorporates the impact of an accounting change made in respect of depreciation during the 2017 financial year.
The Non GAAP adjusted ROIC outcome of 6.57% also reflects this accounting treatment.
We delivered solid financial results in 2017 despite significant challenges from aggressive generic competition for LIALDA and short-term supply shortages for CINRYZE.
These financial results, along with exceptional achievement against our non-financial strategic goals, including advances in our research pipeline and key commercial launches, resulted in a corporate funding level of 123 percent for the Companys bonus pool.
Consistent with the proposed Policy, the Remuneration Committee determined that the Executive Directors annual incentive outcomes should be aligned with overall corporate funding of the Companys bonus pool.
To that end, it was determined that the CEOs and CFOs 2017 EAI awards would be 123 percent of target, in line with the overall corporate funding score and with no personal multiplier applied.
Long-term incentives LTIP The final outcome under the 2015 LTIP resulted in a vesting level of 38 percent of maximum, reflecting actual performance over the past three years against the Net Product Sales and Non GAAP EBITDA performance metrics and the Non GAAP adjusted ROIC underpin.
This outcome results in a projected vesting value of $1,126,544 for the CEO, based on the Q4 2017 average closing ADS price of $148.21.
The CEOs 2015 SAR awards are currently underwater, given their strike price of $245.48 and are therefore valued at $0.
Targets Outcome Percentage of Percentage of award eligible Description Weighting Threshold Maximum Actuals maximum achieved for vesting Net Product Sales 50 percent $13,953m $15,389m $14,449m 48% Non GAAP EBITDA 50 percent $6,414m $7,143m $6,493m 29% 38% Non GAAP adjusted ROIC Underpin 7.75% n a 8.10% n a Remuneration outcomes 2017 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors Base Retirement Other Long-term Executive Director salary benefits benefits EAI cash EAIshares incentives 2017 Total 2016 Total Flemming Ornskov $1,688,000 $506,400 $72,330 $1,401,462 $467,154 $1,126,544 $5,261,891 $10,571,125 1 Jeff Poulton $604,296 $150,268 $65,157 $450,003 $150,001 $- $1,419,723 $1,754,157 1 Mr. Poulton left the Company on December 31, 2017.
Share ownership As at December 31, 2017, the CEO had holdings in Shire which significantly exceeded the proposed increased shareholding requirement of 500 percent of salary under the new Remuneration Policy.
Flemming Ornskov CEO Shareholding guideline Gray shading represents the proposed Actual shareholding increase in shareholding guidelines to 500 % of salary 0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% 800% percent of base salary for the CEO under the new Remuneration Policy.
84 Shire Annual Report 2017 Governance Summary of Remuneration Policy and approach for 2018 2018 Area Policy and operation for 2018 Base salary The salary for the CEO will remain at $1,688,000 for 2018.
Dr. Ornskov has not received a salary increase since July 2015 The salary for the incoming CFO will be set at CHF 750,000 upon appointment Any increases typically take effect on April 1 each year Retirement and other benefits Current legacy Company contributions for the CEO remain at 30 percent of base salary Retirement benefit contributions for the incoming CFO will be aligned with members of the Executive Committee Maximum retirement benefits provisions for any new Executive Director position will be fixed at 25 percent of basesalary Other core benefits remain unchanged this may consist of car allowance, long-term disability and life cover, private medical insurance, executive physical program and financial and tax advisory support Short-term incentives EAI Awards determined solely on 80 percent financial performance and 20 percent non-financial performance Actual payouts range from 0 percent to 200 percent of target Up to 180 percent of base salary 25 percent of any bonus earned continue to be deferred into shares which are normally released after three years For 2018 awards, performance judged on: 80 percent financial performance: 20 percent non-financial performance: Net Product Sales 1 3rd Growth Non GAAP diluted EPS 1 3rd Innovation Non GAAP Free Cash Flow 1 3rd Efficiency People Long-term incentives Removal of SARs to comprise awards consisting wholly of PSUs Three-year performance period, with further two-year post-vest holding period Up to a maximum of 600 Measures aligned to long-term strategy and shareholders interests percentofbase salary Awards continue to be subject to clawback and malus provisions  For 2018 awards, performance judged on four key areas: circumstances Net Product Sales 20 percent Non GAAP diluted EPS 20 percent Non GAAP adjusted ROIC 20 percent Relative TSR against industry comparator group 40 percent For 2018, the maximum opportunity for the CEO and CFO will be an award with a face value of 425 percent and 357 percent of base salary respectively Shareholding guidelines Increase in the shareholding guidelines to: 500 percent of base salary for the CEO 300 percent of base salary for the CFO Guidelines to be met within a five-year period following appointment All shares beneficially owned or deferred under the EAI count towards achieving these guidelines Overall remuneration structureandtiming ofpayments in respect of a financial year 2-year holding 3-year performance period period LTIP up to PSU holding 600% of PSU granted PSU vests period lifts salary Def.
shares vest EAI up to 180% of Cash Released after salary 3 years Pension & other benefits Base salary 0 1 2 3 4 5 Years relating to timing of release of payout Shire Annual Report 2017 85 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Part 2: Directors Remuneration Policy a Executive Director Remuneration The Policy will be presented to shareholders The Directors Remuneration Policy has Policy for approval in a binding vote at the 2018 been developed taking into account the The purpose of the Remuneration Policy AGM, and, if approved, will be effective on principles of the UK Corporate Governance isto recruit and retain high-caliber April 24, 2018, the date of the AGM, for a Code.
The overall remuneration package executives and encourage them to period of three years.
While there is currently for the Executive Directors is designed to enhance the Companys performance no intention to revise the Policy more provide an appropriate balance between responsibly and in line with the Companys frequently than every three years, the fixed and variable, performance-related strategy and shareholder interests.
The Committee will review the Policy on an components, with a significant element of proposed Policy is broadly consistent with annual basis to ensure it remains strategically long-term variable pay given the long-term the policy approved in 2015, with the most aligned and appropriately positioned against nature of the business.
The Committee is significant change being the operation of the market.
Where any change to the Policy satisfied that the composition and structure the LTIP.
A summary of the changes is set is considered, the Committee will consult of the remuneration package is appropriate out after the main Policy table.
with major shareholders prior to submitting and does not incentivize undue risk-taking.
arevised policy for shareholder approval.
Fixed elements Base salary Purpose & link to strategy Operation & Performance Assessment Opportunity To recognize the market value of the Base salary is paid in cash and is pensionable.
Base salary is positioned with reference to role, an individuals skills, experience A variety of factors, including individual and corporate aglobal industry peer group.
Companies in andperformance and an individuals performance and competitive market positioning are the FTSE 50 are used as a secondary leadership and contribution to considered during theannual base salary review reference point.
Anyincreases typically take effect on While there is no prescribed maximum, where April1each year.
appropriate, base salary increases may be Any significant salary increases, such as in cases made in line with the average of employees whereExecutive Directors are relatively new in role, salary increases, unless the Committee have changes in responsibilities or significant variances determines otherwise based on the factors to the market, will be appropriately explained.
Fixed elements Retirement and other benefits Purpose & link to strategy Operation & Performance Assessment Opportunity To ensure that benefits are competitive Executive retirement benefit provisions are provided The maximum retirement benefit provision inthe markets in which the Company inlinewith market practice in the country in which forany new Executive Director position is a operates.
fixed contribution of 25 percent of base salary.
The Company provides a range of other benefits which For an external recruit any retirement benefit may include a car allowance, long-term disability and contributions will be aligned with members of life cover, private medical insurance, executive physical the Executive Committee, but in any event program and financial and tax advisory support.
These willnot exceed 25 percent of base salary.
Other benefits may be Current legacy Company contributions for offered and the taxthereon if considered appropriate Dr. Ornskov are 30 percent of base salary.
The cost to the Company of providing other The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, benefits may vary year on year depending on such as relocation support, expatriate allowances, market practice and the cost of insuring temporary living and transportation expenses, in line certain benefits.
The maximum potential value with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for is the cost of the provision of these benefits.
86 Shire Annual Report 2017 Short-term incentives EAI Purpose & link to strategy Operation & Performance Assessment Opportunity To reward individuals with an award EAI awards are determined solely based on the Up to 90 percent of base salary is payable for based on achievement of pre-defined, outcome of corporate performance with a combination target performance for Executive Directors Committee approved corporate of financial, operational and strategic objectives and up to 180 percent is payable for maximum objectives the corporate scorecard.
noindividual performance is taken into account.
Key performance measures are set by Financial and non-financial measures will be based Actual payouts can range from 0 percent the Committee in the context of annual onother corporate strategic priorities for the relevant to200 percent of target.
performance and ensuring progress financial year.
towards the Companys strategy At least 80 percent of the award will be based togrow and create long-term value by onfinancial performance.
being the leading global biotech The precise allocation between financial and noncompany focused on rarediseases.
financial measures as well as the weightings, will depend on the strategic focus of the Company in anygiven year.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the measures to reflect significant one-off items that occur during the performance period.
Executive Directors are required to defer 25 percent ofany bonus earned into shares which are normally released after a period of three years.
The release of deferred shares includes dividend shares representing accumulated dividends.
Malus up to vesting and clawback two years post vesting provisions operate in line with best practice corporate governance.
Long-term incentives LTIP Purpose & link to strategy Operation & Performance Assessment Opportunity To incentivize individuals to achieve LTIP grants consist of PSUs awarded annually.
The maximum annual award for Executive sustained growth through superior PSU awards vest three years from the date of grant Directors in face value terms is 600 percent long-term performance and to create subject to the satisfaction of performance measures.
The LTIP Atwo-year holding period then applies to provide Award levels are set to reflect an individuals measures, Net Product Sales, Non further alignment with shareholders.
GAAP diluted EPS, Non GAAP PSU awards vest based on financial and or share-price Threshold vesting is equal to 20 percent of adjusted ROIC and relative TSR, were related metrics.
Financial measures could include any award granted, target vesting is equal selected by the Committee as they will earnings measures, sales measures, cash flow, debt to50 percent of any award granted and help drive the strategic objective to reduction and returns measures.
maximum vesting is equal to 100 percent grow and create long-term value for The exact selection and weighting of measures to be ofany award granted.
The Committee reviews used each year will be determined by the Committee Vesting is on a straight-line basis between annually whether the performance toensure alignment with the businesss strategic plan each of these three points.
measures and calibration of targets and priorities.
remain appropriate and sufficiently For 2018 PSU awards, the performance measures challenging taking into account the willbe: Companys strategic objectives and Net Product Sales: 20 percent shareholder interests.
Non GAAP diluted EPS: 20 percent Non GAAP adjusted ROIC: 20 percent Relative TSR against industry comparator group: 40percent Should the Committee determine that these performance conditions are not appropriate for future awards during the Policy period, for example due to the strategic and operational priorities of the business at that time, the Committee will consult with shareholders on any proposed changes.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the measures and or performance targets to reflect significant one off items that occur during the vesting period.
The award may include dividend shares representing accumulated dividends on the portion of the award that vests.
Shares may be sold in order to satisfy tax or other relevant liabilities as a result of vesting.
Shire Annual Report 2017 87 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued All Employee Share Plan Purpose & link to strategy Operation & Performance Assessment Opportunity To encourage long-term shareholding The Company operates tax-efficient all-employee share Limits for all employee share plans are set in the Company by all employees.
saving plans in various jurisdictions.
The current byreference to local tax authorities in each Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the jurisdiction.
The Company may choose to Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan GESPP.
Under the terms of the GESPP, employees save over a one-year period and use the contributions to purchase shares at the end of the period at a maximum discount of 15 percent.
Where required by local tax authorities, these terms may differ.
There are no performance measures attached to theseawards.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are encouraged to own shares in the Company equivalent to 500 percent for the CEO and 300 percent for the CFO of base salary within a five-year period following their appointment.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive or deferred under the EAI count towards achieving these guidelines.
Notes to the remuneration policy table Policy Element Changes to policy Rationale for change Fixed elements base salary Base salary is positioned with reference to a global Creates a single primary reference point of industry peer group and companies in the FTSE 50 relevant companies that reflect the commercial asasecondary reference point.
and international focus of Shire.
The secondary Previous peer groups comprised global biotech and U. S. reference point reflects the size and UK primary biopharmaceutical companies.
A FTSE 50 peer group listing of Shire.
was also used as a secondary reference point.
Fixed elements Retirement and For an external recruit any retirement benefit The maximum has been reduced to move the otherbenefits contributions will be aligned with members of the contribution levels towards that of the broader Executive Committee, but in any event for any new employee population while maintaining a Executive Director promoted from within, will not exceed competitive rate of contribution.
Short-term incentives EAI Removal of the individual performance multiplier from the The revised structure simplifies the approach bonus assessment so the incentive is assessed based tobonus assessment for shareholders and solely on corporate, financial and non-financial participants.
EAI awards are more directly tied to overall corporate performance and provide greater transparency to shareholders through placing more weighting on empirical financial data.
Long-term incentives LTIP Under the new policy, awards will be made as PSUs only The discontinuation of performance-based and therefore the use of performance-based SARs will SARs simplifies the LTIP structure for be discontinued.
As a result, the maximum opportunity level has been The revised performance measures reflect the reduced to 600 percent of salary from 840 percent.
evolving strategic priorities of the Company and Revised performance measures for the 2018 LTIP awards are aligned with the key corporate KPIs on will include: Net Product Sales, Non GAAP diluted EPS, which Company performance is assessed.
Non GAAP adjusted ROIC and relative TSR.
Shareholding guidelines Increase in shareholding requirement to 500 percent for The increase represents a market-leading the CEO and 300 percent for the CFO, from 200 percent shareholding requirement which drives and and 150 percent respectively.
demonstrates a strong alignment between shareholders and management.
Discretion The Remuneration Policy provides the Remuneration Committee with certain discretions in the administration and operation of current and legacy EAI and LTIP awards as set out in the corresponding plan rules including, but not limited to: Any adjustments to performance conditions or awards required as a result of a corporate event such as a transaction, change in control, restructuring, share buybacks, special dividend or rights issue Significant Adjusting Events SAEs : Any adjustment to the outcomes to ensure that payments are representative of the underlying corporate performance: and Minor administrative matters to improve the efficiency of the operation of the plans or to comply with local tax law or regulation.
Potential SAEs are reviewed by the Committee against the guidelines as set out below and will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the DRR at the end of the performance period.
88 Shire Annual Report 2017 The Significant Adjusting Events guidelines consist of the following: The event results from a strategic action that has a short-term impact on the performance of the Company, but is in the long-term interest of shareholders or the event was external and results in a significant change to the Companys operating environment: The event is a one-off as opposed to recurring in nature: The event is significant which is defined by reference to its impact on the financial performance of the Company relative to a materiality threshold: and The event was not taken into account when the performance targets were set.
Performance measures and targets The table below sets out the rationale for performance measures chosen in respect of the EAI and LTIP.
Performance measures Rationale How targets are set EAI The combination of solely financial, The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee Performance measures operational and strategic measures provide a taking into account the Companys business plan, market conditions are determined on an balanced assessment that is strongly aligned and internal and external forecasts.
annual basis with at with corporate performance and allows the Targets are calibrated to reflect the Committees assessment of good least 80 percent always Company to focus annually on targets that toexceptional performance.
linked to financial drive towards the Companys strategy.
The Committee is of the opinion that disclosing precise targets for the performance EAI in advance would not be in shareholders interests.
Except in circumstances where elements remain commercially sensitive, actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess thebasis for any payouts.
1 2 LTIP Net Product Sales and Non GAAP diluted EPS Net Product Sales, Non GAAP diluted EPS and Non GAAP adjusted Net Product Sales performance: ROIC targets are determined annually by the Committee taking into 20 percent support our growth strategy account the Companys business plan, market conditions and internal Non GAAP diluted drive focus on balance of top line and bottom and external forecasts.
EPS 20 percent line performance Relative TSR is assessed in line with UK best practice with threshold Non GAAP adjusted assess the growth commitment made under payout occurring for performance at the median of the peer group, ROIC 20 percent the Baxalta deal increasing on a straight line to maximum payout for upper quartile Relative TSR performance versus the peer group.
3 40 percent Non GAAP adjusted ROIC : The Committee has determined that a global peer group of life sciences reflects long-term returns on strategic and companies will form the constituents of the relative TSR group.
M&A decisions The use of an industry specific peer group means that the Executive alignment with shareholder value creation and Directors are only rewarded for strong performance relative to peer delivery of returns over the longer term companies for which Shire is competing for investor capital.
To create this focused list, peer companies were selected based on closeness Relative TSR: ofcomparison to Shire in terms of size, complexity and operations.
has a direct alignment with value creation for Theprecise constituents of the TSR peer group for each annual LTIP our shareholders grant may change year on year as companies are taken over or their will reflect the markets view of the success of characteristics fundamentally change, but the intention is to retain as the business faras possible a consistent peer group year on year.
is straightforward for participants and The relative TSR results are measured on a common currency basis.
shareholders to understand 1 Product Sales is defined as product sales from continuing operations.
2 Non GAAP diluted EPS is based upon Non GAAP net income attributable to the Company divided by the weighted average number of ordinary share equivalents outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential ordinary shares equivalents that were outstanding during the year, in which one ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
The Non GAAP measures exclude the impact of certain specified items that are highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact Shires operations.
3 Non GAAP adjusted ROIC aims to measure the true underlying economic performance of the Company, and considers a number of adjustments to ROIC as derived from the Companys Non GAAP financial results including: Adding back to Non GAAP operating income all R&D expenses and operating lease costs incurred in the period Capitalizing on the Groups balance sheet historical, cumulative R&D, in-process R&D and intangible asset impairment charges and operating lease costs which previously have been expensed Deducting from Non GAAP operating income and an amortization charge for the above capitalized costs based on the estimated commercial lives of the relevant products Excluding the income statement and balance sheet impact of non-operating assets such as surplus cash and non-strategic investments Taxing the resulting adjusted operating income at the underlying Non GAAP effective tax rate Shire Annual Report 2017 89 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Legacy matters in relation to Executive Director remuneration The Committee will honor remuneration and related commitments to current and former directors including the exercise of any discretions available to the Committee in relation to such commitments where the terms were agreed prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report.
Elements of the policy that continue to apply The following existing arrangements will continue to operate on the terms and conditions set out in the relevant Portfolio Share Plan PSP and LTIP rules.
No further grants will be made under the LTIP on this basis.
The final grant 2017 LTIP award will vest in respect of the performance period ending in 2019 with vesting in February 2020.
LTIP Purpose & link to strategy Operation & Performance Assessment Opportunity To incentivize individuals to achieve LTIP grants for the Executive Directors comprised two Maximum annual awards for Executive sustained growth through superior types of award: Directors in face value terms were 840 long-term performance and to SAR awards.
A SAR is the right to receive Ordinary percent of salary for grants under the LTIP, create alignment with shareholders.
Shares or ADSs linked to the increase in value of consisting of: Ordinary Shares or ADSs from grant to exercise.
480 percent of base salary for SAR The LTIP measures, Product PSU awards.
A PSU is the right to receive a specified awards:and Salesand Non GAAP EBITDA, number of Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
360 percent of base salary for PSU awards were selected by the Committee SAR and PSU awards granted to Executive Directors Award levels were set to reflect an individuals asit believes that they represent vestthree years from the date of grant, subject to the role, responsibilities and experience.
meaningful and relevant satisfaction of performance measures and are governed Threshold vesting is equal to 20 percent of measurements of performance bythe LTIP rules.
SAR awards can be exercised up to the any award made, with maximum vesting being andare an important measure of seventh anniversary of the date of grant.
equal to 100 percent of any award made.
the Companys ability to meet the Vesting of awards requires the achievement of two strategic objective to grow value independent measures: forall our stakeholders.
Product Sales targets 50 percent weighting : and Non GAAP EBITDA targets 50 percent weighting.
The Committee reviews annually whether the performance The Committee will also use a Non GAAP adjusted ROIC measures and calibration of targets underpin at the end of the three-year performance period remain appropriate and sufficiently to assess the underlying performance of the Company challenging taking into account the before determining final vesting levels.
Companys strategic objectives The award may include dividend shares representing and shareholder interests.
accumulated dividends on the portion of the award thatvests.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments tothe measures to reflect significant one off items that occur during the vesting period SAEs.
Potential SAEs arereviewed by the Committee against pre-existing guidelines.
The Committee will make full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments in the DRR at the endof the performance period.
A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year vesting period for both PSUs and SARs.
Sharesmay be sold in order to satisfy tax or other relevantliabilities as a result of the award vesting.
Malus and clawback arrangements are in place.
Thesearecompliant with the Code and in line with bestpractice in this area.
90 Shire Annual Report 2017 b Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Overall remuneration Purpose & link to strategy Operation Opportunity To attract and retain high-caliber The Chairman is paid a single fee for all of his her The Chairmans and Non Executive Directors individuals by offering market responsibilities.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
The members and Chairmen of the main Board Fees are determined by the Executive committees and the Senior Independent Director are paid Directors and the Chairman, with the acommittee fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
exception of the Chairmans fee, which is The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive 25 determined by the Committee.
percent of their total fees in the form of shares.
Fee levels, including any increases, are set Additional fees may be paid to Non-Executive Directors taking into account the anticipated time excluding the Chairman on a per-meeting basis for any commitment for the role, experience of the non-scheduled Board or Committee meetings required in incumbent and competitive market levels exceptional or unforeseen circumstances, up to the among UK and global industry comparators.
relevant fee cap as set out in the Companys Articles.
Total fees will not exceed 3 million per the The Company reimburses reasonably incurred expenses Companys Articles of Association.
and tax thereon and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are also paid an additional fee in respect of each transatlantic trip made for Board meetings.
In addition the Company may pay for tax support for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and tax thereon.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not performance-related.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group share plans, pension plans or other employee benefit schemes.
Shire Annual Report 2017 91 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued c Recruitment remuneration policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a member of the Board from an external party is to take account of the Executive Directors remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package, and to not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Fixed elements Base salary is positioned with reference to a global industry peer group and companies within the FTSE 50 used as a Base salary, retirement secondary reference point.
and other benefits The Executive Director shall be eligible to participate in Shires employee benefit plans, including coverage under all executive and employee pension and benefit programs in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as may be amended by the Company in its sole discretion from time to time.
The Company may meet certain mobility costs, including, but not limited to, relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Short-term The appointed Executive Director will be eligible to earn a discretionary annual incentive award in accordance with the rules incentives EAI and terms of Shires Deferred Bonus Plan under which the EAI operates.
The level of opportunity will be consistent with that stated in section a of this Policy.
Long-term The Executive Director will be eligible for performance-based equity awards in accordance with the rules and terms of incentives Shires LTIP.
The award levels will be consistent with that stated in section a of this Policy.
Maximum variable The maximum variable remuneration for a new Executive Director excluding any replacement awards will be 600 percent remuneration under the LTIP and 180 percent under the EAI, in line with section a of this Policy.
Replacement The Committee will consider what replacement awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of a new awards Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation or benefits item that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration forgone.
The Committee will seek to ensure that a meaningful proportion of the replacement awards that are not attributable to long-term incentives forgone will be delivered in Shire deferred shares, released at a later date and subject to continued employment.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was deemed forgone, the replacement payments shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing long-term incentive plan to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of this plan if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards made in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to their original terms.
If promotion is part way through the year, an additional top-up award may be made to bring the Executive Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate in the circumstances.
92 Shire Annual Report 2017 d Service contracts and termination arrangements Executive Directors The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
As an overriding principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances, including the reason for termination, performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
Notice The Committees policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should provide for a notice period of up to 12 months period from the Company and the Executive Director.
The Committee believes this policy provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
Contractual Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payments payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Payments in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of up to 12 months pension contributions, car allowance and other contractual benefits.
There is no contractual entitlement to annual incentive payments in respect of the notice period any award is at the Committees absolute discretion, performance-related and capped at the contractual target level.
Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full duration of their notice period.
Contracts also allow for phased payments on termination, which allow for further reduction in payments if the individual finds alternative employment outside the Company during the notice period.
Retirement Normal treatment to apply, as governed by the rules of the relevant pension plan: no enhancement for leavers will be made.
benefits Short-term Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is incentives made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual incentive award for that performance year, subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Where an award is made the payment may be delivered fully in cash.
Noaward will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
The relevant plan rules provide that any outstanding deferred shares will vest in accordance with the regular vesting period, except for where an Executive Directors employment is terminated for cause in which case they will lapse.
In the event of a variation in the equity share capital of the Company, demerger, a special dividend or distribution, or any corporate event which might affect the value of an award, the Committee may make adjustments to the number or class ofstock or securities subject to the award.
Long-term The treatment of unvested long-term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan, as approved incentives byshareholders.
Where an individuals employment terminates, the LTIP rules provide for unvested long-term incentive awards to lapse except as set out below.
Under the LTIP rules, where an individual is determined to be a good leaver, unvested long-term incentive awards will vest at the normal vesting date subject to performance against applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating for time.
Any Committee determination will take into account a number of considerations, inparticular performance and other circumstances relating to their termination of employment.
Good leaver reasons include retirement in accordance with the Companys retirement policy, ill health, injury or disability, andredundancy or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
Pro-rating for time will be calculated on the basis of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period during which the executive was employed as a proportion of the number of complete weeks in the relevant period.
Where an executive does not work during their notice period, the Committee may apply pro-rating by reference to the date the notice period would have expired.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated or an Executive Director is under notice of termination for any reason at the date of award of any long-term incentive awards, no long-term incentive awards will be made.
In the event of a variation in the equity share capital of the Company, demerger, a special dividend or distribution, or any corporate event that might affect the value of an award, the Committee may make adjustments to the number or class of stocks or securities subject to the award and, in the case of an option, the option price.
Change In relation to unvested deferred annual bonus awards, the Deferred Bonus Plan rules provide that unvested awards will in control normally vest on a change in control.
In relation to unvested long-term incentive awards, the LTIP rules provide that unvested awards will normally only vest on achange in control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied and would be reduced where more than a year remains until the relevant vesting date, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The Committees policy is that contracts of employment should not provide additional compensation on severance as a result of change in control.
Shire Annual Report 2017 93 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts for Executive Directors The service agreements of the Executive Directors are not fixed-term and are terminable by either the Company or the Director on the following bases: Director Date of current service contract Notice period Flemming Ornskov October 24, 2012 12 months 1 Jeffrey Poulton April 29, 2015 12 months 2 Thomas Dittrich November 19, 2017 12 months 1 Mr. Poulton left the Company on December 31, 2017.
2 Mr. Dittrich is expected to be appointed as CFO on March 19, 2018.
When setting notice periods, the Committee has regard to market practice and corporate governance best practice.
All service contracts are available for viewing at the Companys registered office and at the General Meeting.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed by the Board ordinarily for a term of two years.
Their initial appointment and any subsequent re-appointment are subject to election, and thereafter annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of office.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to a three-month notice period.
In addition, David Ginsburgs letter of appointment also contains specific provisions acknowledging his principal employers rights in respect of its property and proprietary information, and its policies as applicable to Dr. Ginsburg.
All service contracts and letters of appointments are available for viewing at the Companys registered office and at the General Meeting.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one fee-paying external Non-Executive Directorship, subject to prior approval by the Board.
Anyfees received from such appointments are retained by the Executive Director.
Dr. Ornskov was appointed to the Board of Directors of Waters Corporation effective June 22, 2017.
During 2017, he received fees comprised of $32,000 and 594 shares, and was granted 3,042 stock options which are exercisable on June 22, 2018. e Remuneration scenarios The composition and value of the CEOs remuneration package in three performance scenarios is set out in the charts below.
The level ofremuneration is in accordance with the Executive Director remuneration policy set out in Part 2 a of this report.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long-term incentives supports the long-term nature of the business and changes significantly across the performance scenarios.
$1,688,000 0 percent increase Retirement benefits including the cash value of the total Company contributions to the Company plans.
30 percent of salary Other benefits representing the value of annualized benefits included in the summary of 2017 remuneration table in Part 3 b of this report excluding any one-off items.
Executive Annual Incentive EAI On-target 90 percent of salary Maximum 180 percent of salary Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Represents the CEOs 2018 LTIP award of 425 percent of salary PSUs only to be granted under the new On-target 50 percent vesting Remuneration Policy.
Maximum 425 percent of base salary 94 Shire Annual Report 2017 f Shareholder engagement The Committee takes the views of shareholders very seriously and is committed to ongoing dialog with the Companys shareholder base, which has a significant transatlantic element.
This can take a variety of forms, including meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular shareholder groups, other dialogue to update shareholders and receive their feedback on planned refinements to arrangements, and annual voting on the DRR.
Al Stroucken discussed the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy with more than 30 of our largest shareholders and proxy advisory bodies in late 2017.
The comments and suggestions made by shareholders during this engagement exercise were presented back to the Remuneration Committee at the October and December 2017 Remuneration Committee meetings and were instrumental in determining the final details of the new Remuneration Policy.
Further information is set out in Part One: Annual Statement on page 78. g Remuneration of other employees The Committee recognizes that remuneration has an important role to play in supporting the implementation and achievement of theCompanys strategy and ongoing performance.
When making remuneration decisions in respect of the Executive Directors, the Committee is sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the Company, in particular in relation to base salary decisions where the Committee considers the broader employee salary increase budget.
The Committee approves the overall annual bonus funding fortheCompany each year and has oversight over the grant of all LTIP awards across the Company.
In addition, annual incentive performance for the Executive Directors is measured against the backdrop of the same corporate scorecard that is appropriately used toassess performance across the organization.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
However, many of the Companys employees are shareholders through the Companys all-employee share plans, and are therefore able to express their views on director remuneration at each general meeting.
Shire has a diverse employee base, employing more than 23,000 people in more than 60 countries.
To the extent possible, our remuneration philosophy is cascaded throughout the organization taking into account local practices where appropriate.
All employees receive salary and benefits benchmarked to the local markets and countries in which they work.
The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan.
The maximum opportunity available is based on role, responsibility and location, withthe amount that can be earned based on the same corporate scorecard that is used for the Executive Directors.
Employees who hold key strategic positions or are deemed critical to the business through their performance are also offered the opportunity to participate in the LTIP, with approximately 4,700 employees granted annual awards in 2017.
Similar to the discretionary bonus plan, the maximum opportunity available is based on role, responsibility and location.
Awards are assessed on the same performance measures as those used in the executive LTIP being Net Product Sales, Non GAAP diluted EPS, Non GAAP adjusted ROICand relative TSR.
Shire operates all-employee share plans in 17 countries which allow employees to become shareholders and share in the success of the Company.
More than 4,500 employees participate with average annual contributions of $7,000.
Shire Annual Report 2017 95 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration a Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy in 2018 In 2018, the Executive Director and Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policies will be implemented as follows: Executive Director Remuneration Policy Base salary Implementation in 2018 Base salaries effective April 1, 2018 CEO $1,688,000 0 percent increase on prior year CFO CHF 750,000 CEO: Following the 25 percent salary increase awarded to Dr. Ornskov during 2015, the Committee has committed to freezing his salary at this level for the next three years.
CFO: Upon his expected appointment on March 19, 2018, Mr. Dittrich will receive an annual base salary of CHF 750,000.
Retirement and other benefits Implementation in 2018 Retirement benefit contributions CEO 30 percent CFO 14 percent while based in Switzerland, increasing to 20 percent upon relocation to the U. S. The implementation of policy in relation to retirement and other benefits is unchanged and in line with the Remuneration Policy in Part 2 a of this report.
Executive Annual Incentive Implementation in 2018 EAI opportunity CEO 180 percent of base salary no change from prior year CFO 160 percent of base salary no change from prior year A scorecard approach will continue to be used for the 2018 EAI and will be comprised of 80 percent financial and 20 percent nonfinancial performance measures representing an increase in the financial component from 75 percent in prior years.
This weighting recognizes the critical importance of financial results to our shareholders and bonus affordability as well as the important role that non-financial performance plays in the success and growth of the Company.
These measures are aligned with and support our four key strategic drivers for 2018 of Growth, Innovation, Efficiency and People.
The individual performance element in the EAI has been removed such that awards are determined solely based on the achievement of corporate performance.
The targets themselves are considered to be commercially sensitive on the grounds that disclosure could damage the Companys commercial interests.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Financial and non-financial targets are set at the start of the performance year and are approved by the Committee.
The Committee believes the 2018 targets are suitably challenging, relevant and measurable.
The 2018 corporate scorecard and the calculation of the bonus outcome for Executive Directors is set out below: Financial Performance 80% Non-Financial Performance 20% Net Product Sales Growth Innovation Bonus Outcome 1 3 weighting for Executive Directors Non GAAP diluted EPS Efficiency People 1 3 weighting Non GAAP Free Cash Flow 1 3 weighting 96 Shire Annual Report 2017 Long-Term Incentives Following the year-end review, the Committee made the following 2018 LTIP award decisions, which are in line with the disclosed Policy inPart 2 a of this report.
These awards will be made following shareholder approval of the revised Policy at the 2018 AGM: Face value of threshold vesting Face value of maximum vesting Face value of maximum vesting 2018 LTIP award Award type percentage of 2018 salary percentage of 2018 salary 000s Flemming Ornskov PSU 85% 425% $7,174 Thomas Dittrich PSU 71% 357% CHF 2,679 No 2018 LTIP award will be granted to Mr. Poulton given his departure from the Company on December 31, 2017.
Threshold vesting is equal to 20 percent of any award granted, target vesting is equal to 50 percent of any award granted and maximum vesting is equal to 100 percent of any award granted.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between each of these three points.
In all cases, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of theaward.
For the 2018 grant, the Committee has determined that LTIP awards will be tested against four independent measures at the end of athree-year performance period: Net Product Sales, Non GAAP diluted EPS, Non GAAP adjusted ROIC and relative TSR.
As set out on page 78, the Companys revised outlook for sales in combination with the wider changes in our business model has implications for earnings and returns trajectories for the next three years.
These are reflected in the performance ranges for Net Product Sales, Non GAAP diluted EPS and Non GAAP adjusted ROIC.
The Committee has considered this carefully and is satisfied that the performance ranges set for 2018 remain very stretching in the context of the revised business expectations.
The weightings, threshold and maximum target figures are provided in the table below.
2018 LTIP targets Weighting Threshold 20 percent Target 50 percent Maximum 100 percent Net Product Sales 20 percent $16,000m $16,600m $18,000m Non GAAP diluted EPS 20 percent $17.10 $18.20 $20.00 Non GAAP adjusted ROIC 20 percent 7.5% 8.0% 8.5% Relative TSR 40 percent weighting Relative TSR will be measured against a custom peer group of global life sciences companies.
To create this focused list, peer companies were selected based on closeness of comparison to Shire in terms of size, complexity and operations.
Selection against these criteria resulted in the following group of 20 peer companies for the 2018 LTIP award.
AbbVie Inc. Eli Lilly and Co Alexion Pharmaceuticals Inc. Gilead Sciences Inc. Allergan plc GlaxoSmithKline PLC Amgen Inc. Merck & Co Inc. AstraZeneca PLC Novo Nordisk A S Biogen Inc. Pfizer Inc. Biomarin Pharmaceutical Inc. Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co Sanofi SA Celgene Corp UCB SA CSL Ltd Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. Assessment against the peer group will be calibrated so that threshold payout is achieved for meeting the median TSR performance of the peer group, increasing to a maximum payout for meeting upper quartile TSR performance of the peer group.
Any changes to the peer group as a result of corporate activity e. g. a company delisting, will be reported as part of the disclosure of the LTIP vest.
A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year vesting period.
Clawback and malus arrangements are in place for awards to cover situations where results are materially misstated or in the event of serious misconduct.
Shire Annual Report 2017 97 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued New joiner replacement awards Details of the replacement awards due to be made to Thomas Dittrich following his expected appointment as CFO are set out below.
2017 annual bonus 2015 LTIP award 2016 LTIP award Value Equal to the value of the actual bonus that CHF 1,320,000 CHF 1,000,000 Mr. Dittrich would have received from his previous employer less the value of any payment received Vehicle 75 percent cash and 25 percent deferred Shire shares Shire shares Shire shares Performance conditions Financial performance disclosed in previous Actual disclosed performance Shire 2018 LTIP performance measures employers 2017 compensation report inprevious employers 2018 published in February 2018 compensation report published inFebruary 2019 Vesting date Deferred shares will vest in March 2021 March 2019 March 2021 The forfeited 2017 annual bonus would have been delivered fully in cash by Mr. Dittrichs previous employer, however, the Committee considered it would be appropriate to deliver the value using the same mechanism as Shires EAI with 75 percent payable in cash and 25 percent deferred into Shire shares which would not be released for three years together with shares representing accumulated dividends.
For the long-term incentive awards, the Committee considered the forfeited awards in detail and sought to structure these replacement awards such that overall they were no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the long-term incentives due to be forfeited, with particular reference to the performance conditions applied to the award.
The Committee aimed to ensure that they were in the best interests of shareholders and appropriate to secure Mr. Dittrichs appointment to Shire.
All payments are in line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy 2018 fee levels for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remain unchanged for the fourth year since 2015.
Basic fees effective January 1, 2018 2018 Chairman inclusive of all committee appointments 450,000 Senior Independent Director 98,000 Non-Executive Director 93,000 The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will continue to receive 25 percent of their total fees in the form of shares.
In addition to the basic fee, a committee fee will be paid to the members and Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk, Remuneration, Science & Technology and Nomination & Governance Committees.
Committee fees effective January 1, 2018 Chairman 2018 Audit, Compliance & Risk 25,000 12,500 Remuneration 25,000 12,500 Science & Technology 20,000 10,000 Nomination & Governance 17,500 8,750 Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman will also receive the following additional fees for attending Board and Committee meetings in addition to those scheduled as part of the normal course of business: Board meeting additional 2,000 per meeting Committee meeting additional 1,000 per meeting The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will continue to receive an additional fee of 5,000 where transatlantic travel is required toattend Board meetings.
98 Shire Annual Report 2017 b 2017 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors subject to audit The summary table of 2017 remuneration for the Executive Directors comprises a number of key components that are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow.
1 Mr. Poulton left the Company on December 31, 2017.
2 In the 2016 DRR, the value of LTIP awards vesting in respect of 2016 vesting at 100 percent of maximum was calculated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of $177.25.
These figures have been restated to reflect the actual share price at the vesting date on February 28, 2017 of $181.32.
For Dr. Ornskov, the value of his LTIP awards vesting in 2017 represents his 2015 PSU award only vesting at 38 percent of maximum and has been valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of $148.21.
His 2015 SAR award is currently underwater, given the strike price of $245.48 and is therefore valued at $0.
Base salary Dr. Ornskovs base salary of $1,688,000 remains unchanged from 2015, following the Committees decision to freeze his salary for aperiod of three years effective July 1, 2015.
Mr. Poultons base salary was increased by 3 percent from $592,000 to $609,760 effective April 1, 2017.
Retirement benefits Dr. Ornskov received a contribution at a rate of 30 percent of his base salary through a combination of contributions to the Companys 401 k Plan and credits to his SERP account.
Mr. Poulton received a contribution at a rate of 25 percent of his base salary through a combination of contributions to the Companys 401 k Plan and credits to his SERP account.
Other benefits The 2017 figures for Dr. Ornskov and Mr. Poulton principally include car allowance, financial and tax advisory support, long-term disability and life insurance and private medical, dental and vision cover.
The 2016 figure for Dr. Ornskov includes costs of $521,464 associated with the relocation of Dr. Ornskovs family to join him in Boston.
The amount includes the grossed-up cost of tax paid by the Company on behalf of the CEO.
Short-term incentives 2017 EAI outcome Deferred as a percentage as a percentage 1 Name Total Cash element shares element of target of maximum Flemming Ornskov $1,868,616 111 percent of salary $1,401,462 $467,154 123 percent 62 percent Jeff Poulton $600,004 98 percent of salary $450,003 $150,001 123 percent 62 percent 1 25 percent of the EAI outcome is deferred into shares for three years.
The Corporate Scorecard outcome is calculated by way of a weighted average of the outcomes of the financial and non-financial performance measures.
For each performance measure, outperformance or underperformance is measured as a percentage achievement against the target.
Performance at target results in 100 percent of the target bonus with up to a maximum of 200 percent ofthe target bonus for maximum performance.
Maximum performance is set 10 percent above target and threshold performance at 10percent below target, so the Committee considers the target ranges to be very challenging.
The Corporate Scorecard outcome determines the bonus funding for all individuals within the plan.
For 2017, the Committee approved the Corporate Scorecard outcome of 123 percent set out in the table on the following page.
Consistent with the proposed Policy, the Remuneration Committee determined that the Executive Directors annual incentive outcomes should be aligned with the overall corporate funding of the Companys bonus pool with no additional application of any personal multiplier.
Shire Annual Report 2017 99 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued 2017 Corporate Scorecard Actual as a percentage Funding Overall 3 Financials Weight a Threshold Target Max Actual of Target Score b Score a b Net Product Sales 25% $13,176m $14,640m $16,104m $14,449m 99% 87% 22% Non GAAP EBITA 30% $5,343m $5,937m $6,531m $6,052m 102% 119% 36% 1, 2 Non GAAP adjusted ROIC 20% 5.84% 6.49% 7.14% 6.57% 101% 112% 22% Financials Total 75% 101% 107% 80% Non-Financials Growth 110% 15% 108% 183% 28% Innovation 107% 90%-100% 100% 100%-110% Efficiency 109% 10% 106% 156% 16% People 103% Non-Financials Total 25% 107% 173% 43% Scorecard Total 100% 102% 123% Note: Actuals and bonus funding scores have been rounded to the nearest whole percentage and therefore individual totals may not add up to the overall bonus funding score of 123 percent.
1 For the purposes of the Corporate Scorecard multiplier calculation, Non GAAP EBITA and Non GAAP adjusted ROIC have been adjusted to exclude the cost of the annual bonus corporate multiplier on the full-year results.
3 Every one percent change in the outcome achieved results in a 10 percent increase decrease in funding.
Additional details of the non-financial performance outcomes are set out in the table below.
Non-financial performance measures Strategic driver Key achievements Executed 50 product launches globally, including 18 across targeted products HYQVIA, CUVITRU, VYVANSE, INTUNIV, ONCASPAR, ONIVYDE U. S. market approval and subsequent launch of MYDAYIS International submission for XIIDRA LIFITEGRAST and approval in Canada Growth Conditional EU approval for NATPAR Entered into agreements with Novimmune, MicroHealth and Rani Therapeutics focused on Pipeline and advancing innovation for patients suffering from hemophilia and with Parion Sciences focused pre-commercial onDry Eye Disease and with AB Biosciences focused on autoimmune disorders Achieved high-quality topline Phase 3 data for SHP643 ahead of target Successfully initiated seven new Phase 3 programs, including SHP640 for patients with bacterial Innovation and adenoviral conjunctivitis and SHP620 for patients with cytomegalovirus infection Submission of four IND applications from the early pipeline Alignment with the FDA on registrational path forward for SHP647 Executed on pre-established metrics for ongoing integration of Baxalta, including being ahead ofschedule to achieve $700m run-rate synergies by year three post-close Delivered $491m 8 percent of external spend in procurement savings Efficiency Delivered Network Study recommendations for improved supply chain efficiency ahead of target Completed immunoglobulin IG conformance lots for Covington ahead of target and filed the PAS for Covington site Organizational effectiveness More than 95 percent of employees completed mandatory corporate compliance training byyear-end Implemented Workday AON Self Service Model on time and on budget People Conducted multiple employee engagement surveys in 2017, and developed action plans foroptimizing future engagement in critical functions locations Implemented global strategy for talent development and succession planning 100 Shire Annual Report 2017 Long-term incentives Vesting of 2015 LTIP awards 2015 LTIP outcome Flemming Ornskov 38 percent of maximum opportunity 2014 award: 100 percent The table below sets out a summary of the number of shares vesting and the resulting gross estimated vesting value for the 2015 LTIP award for Dr. Ornskov.
The 2015 LTIP award for Mr. Poulton lapsed in full upon termination as he left the Company prior to the vesting date on April 30, 2018.
This estimate is on the basis of an average share price over the final quarter of 2017 of $148.21, given that the 2015 LTIP award vests following the date of this report.
Number of Percentage shares under of total Number of Number of Total number Award Date of original award shares dividend of shares Share Price Value at 1 2 1 3 4 4 Name type grant award vesting vesting shares vesting at vesting vesting PSU 19,799 38% 7,523 78 7,601 $148.21 $1,126,544 April 30, Flemming Ornskov SAR 2015 26,398 38% 10,031 0 10,031 $148.21 $0 1 Awards were granted on April 30, 2015 and will vest on April 30, 2018 over ADSs.
2 The figures represent the number of shares vesting taking into account performance against applicable performance conditions see performance outcome below.
3 The vesting of PSUs includes dividend shares representing any accrued dividends, in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
4 Based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of $148.21.
The 2015 SAR awards are currently underwater given their strike price of $245.48 and are therefore valued at $0.
2015 LTIP performance measures outcome performance period ended on December 31, 2017 Targets Outcome Percentage Percentage of award of maximum eligible for Threshold Maximum Actuals achieved vesting Net Product Sales $13,953m $15,389m $14,449m 48% Non GAAP EBITDA $6,414m $7,143m $6,493m 29% 38% Non GAAP adjusted ROIC 7.75% 8.10% The Non GAAP adjusted ROIC underpin of 7.75 percent has to be met in full for awards to be eligible for vesting.
To the extent that the Net Product Sales and Non GAAP EBITDA measures are achieved, 20 percent of the award is payable for threshold performance and 100 percent payable for maximum vesting, with straight-line vesting within this performance range.
c Other audited disclosures Scheme interests awarded during 2017 subject to audit 2017 LTIP awards The following table set out details of the SAR and PSU awards granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIP during 2017.
Vesting of the 2017 LTIP awards will be determined by the Committee taking into account performance over the performance period January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019.
In addition, any Significant Adjusting Events that are relevant will be taken into consideration, as well as an overall assessment of the underlying performance of the Company.
Percentage Percentage Face value Face value of award of award of threshold of maximum Award Number Share price vesting for vesting for vesting vesting Face value type of ADSs on grant threshold maximum percentage of percentage of maximum Name ADS awarded Exercise price performance performance 2017 salary of 2017 salary vesting 000s SAR 30,536 66% 329% $5,546 Flemming Ornskov PSU 22,902 49% 246% $4,160 $181.63 20% 100% SAR 10,709 66% 329% $1,945 Jeff Poulton PSU 8,032 49% 246% $1,459 The maximum SAR and PSU awards are granted and, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, are adjusted at the date ofvesting.
The number of SARs and PSUs as well as the exercise price for SAR awards is calculated using an approach based on the average three-day closing mid-market share price at the date of grant of February 28, 2017.
Shire Annual Report 2017 101 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued EAI deferred shares granted in 2017 in respect of 2016 EAI outcome 25 percent of any outcome under the EAI is deferred into shares.
To satisfy these, awards of Restricted Stock Units were granted in March 2017 under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP a sub-plan of the LTIP as follows to Executive Directors as part of their 2016 EAI award and will vest three years from the point of deferral subject to the terms of the plan rules.
Number of Share price Face value Vesting 1 2 ADSs awarded at grant of award date Flemming Ornskov 3,721 $664,496 March 10, 2020 $178.58 Jeff Poulton 1,160 $207,153 March 10, 2020 1 The share price is based on the average three-day closing mid-market share price up to and including the date of grant.
2 Based on the share prices on the date of grant of March 10, 2017.
Directors shareholdings and scheme interests subject to audit Under the new Remuneration Policy, the CEO, CFO and other members of the Executive Committee are required to own shares inthe Company equivalent to 500 percent and 300 percent previously 200 percent and 150 percent of base salary, respectively, within afive-year period following their appointment.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually for this group.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below and show that the new shareholding guideline for the CEO has been significantly exceeded, thusdemonstrating his alignment with shareholder interests.
Executive Directors shareholdings relative to guidelines CEO CFO % of salary 0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% 800% Current shareholding guideline New shareholding guideline Actual shareholding Summary of Executive Directors shareholdings and scheme interests 2 Total Scheme interests as at Dec 31, 2017 shares held that count Subject to the achievement of 4 towards the performance conditions shareholding Shareholding Total guidelines as at Dec 31, RS RSUs Total Total SARs as a % of 2017 or date awarded PSUs RSUs Total SARs vested but Total salary as at 1 2 3 5 Security type of resignation under the EAI unvested unvested unexercised interests Dec 31, 2017 ADS 55,546 10,467 75,198 100,263 98,759 340,233 Flemming Ornskov 788% Ord Shares 45,900 45,900 6 Jeff Poulton ADS 4,796 1,720 24,939 33,252 15,046 79,753 175% 1 One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 With the exception of the following transactions in shares, no change in Directors interests has occurred during the period December 31, 2017 to February 16, 2018.
On February 13, 2018, Restricted Stock RS in respect of ADSs awarded to Dr. Ornskov under the EAI vested.
2,546 ADSs were released, inclusive of an increase, pursuant to the terms of the EAI, equivalent to the value of dividends paid by the Company in respect of the ADSs from the award date to the date of vesting.
Of the 2,546 ADSs released, 1,572 ADSs were sold at an average price of $132.01 per ADS to satisfy personal tax liabilities arising from the vesting.
3 This represents unvested RS and Restricted Stock Units RSUs awarded under the EAI which are not subject to performance conditions and are forfeited in the case of termination for cause.
4 All unvested awards are subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting, with the exception of RS and RSUs awarded under the EAI.
5 Vested but unexercised SARs are no longer subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
6 Mr. Poultons shareholding has been rounded up to the nearest whole ADS, with his precise shareholding including a fractional entitlement to an ADS as a result ofthe operation of a dividend reinvestment plan.
Awards under the Companys long-term incentive plans and broad-based share plans are satisfied either by market-purchased shares held in an employee benefit trust or the issue of new shares within the limits agreed by shareholders when the plans were approved.
These limits comply with the Investment Associations guidelines that require that no more than 10 percent of a companys issued share capital be issued in accordance with all-employee share plans in any 10-year period, with no more than 5 percent issued in accordance with discretionary employee share plans.
The number of ADSs for which PSU, RSU and SAR awards are granted is calculated using the average three-day closing mid-market ADSprice at the time of grant.
The number of ADSs in respect of which a RS award is granted is determined by the acquisition price per ADS at the time of grant.
Unless otherwise indicated, all awards are granted under the Shire Long-Term Incentive Plan or its predecessor plan: the Shire Portfolio Share Plan.
2 In accordance with the rules of the respective share plans, the vested PSU, RSU and RS awards have been increased to reflect the dividends paid by Shire intheperiod from the date of grant to the date of vesting.
3 The maximum SAR and PSU awards are granted and, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, adjusted at the date of vesting.
Performance conditions attached to SAR and PSU awards granted in 2013 and 2014 are Non GAAP adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA targets within a performance matrix.
Performance conditions attached to SAR and PSU awards granted from 2015 onwards are Product Sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets with a Non GAAP adjusted ROIC underpin.
In all cases, awards will only vest if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
4 25 percent of any outcome under the EAI is deferred into shares through the grant of Restricted Stock Units or Restricted Shares.
5 A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year vesting period for SAR and PSU awards granted from 2015 onwards.
On October 31, 2017, Dr. Ornskov and Mr. Poulton each exercised an option over 100 notional ADSs granted under the Shire Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan GESPP at an exercise price of $123.90 per ADS.
On November 1, 2017, Dr. Ornskov was granted an option over notional ADSs pursuant to the GESPP: electing to save $480.76 per fortnight.
Shire Annual Report 2017 103 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors scheme interests 1 2 Board member Security type Shareholding as at December 31, 2017 Susan Kilsby ADS 8,285 William Burns Ord Shares 4,620 Dominic Blakemore Ord Shares 2,141 Olivier Bohuon Ord Shares 2,414 Ian Clark ADS 188 Gail Fosler ADS 8,083 Steven Gillis ADS 1,595 David Ginsburg ADS 1,019 Sara Mathew ADS 2,817 Anne Minto Ord Shares 5,876 3 Albert Stroucken ADS 20,085 1 One ADS is equal to three Ordinary Shares.
2 No change in Directors interests has occurred during the period December 31, 2017 to February 16, 2018.
3 Mr. Strouckens shareholding includes 14,000 ADSs held in a grantor retained annuity trust, in respect of which he is the sole trustee.
2 The Non-Executive Directors receive an additional fee of 5,000 where transatlantic travel is required to attend Board meetings.
3 Dominic Blakemore was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on February 15, 2017.
Mr. Blakemore stepped down as Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on October 27, 2017, though continues to serve as a member of the Committee.
4 Olivier Bohuon was appointed to the Nomination & Governance Committee, and stepped down from the Science & Technology Committee, on February 15, 2017.
5 Ian Clark was appointed to the Board on January 3, 2017, and to the Remuneration Committee and Science & Technology Committee on February 15, 2017.
6 Sara Mathew was appointed to the Nomination & Governance Committee, and stepped down from the Remuneration Committee, on February 15, 2017.
Ms. Mathew was appointed Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on October 27, 2017, having previously served as a member of the Committee.
7 Anne Minto stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on August 3, 2017, though continues to serve as a member of the Committee.
Given the time commitment required of Ms. Minto to support the shareholder consultation on the new Remuneration Policy and transition to Mr. Stroucken as the new Remuneration Committee Chair, the Board approved to pay Ms. Minto an additional fee at a value equivalent to the Remuneration Committee Chair fee until she steps down as a Director of the Company at the AGM in April 2018.
8 Albert Stroucken was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on August 3, 2017, having previously served as a member of the Committee.
104 Shire Annual Report 2017 e Departure Arrangements for Jeff Poulton subject to audit Mr. Poulton stepped down from Shires Board of Directors and his role as CFO on December 31, 2017.
In line with the Committees Policy, the Committee considered the overall circumstances of the departure, as well as performance, contractual obligations and plan rules.
The Committees determinations, which were consistent with the Executive Directors termination policy, are set out below.
Remuneration element Description Salary, retirement In accordance with his employment contract and the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, Mr. Poulton will receive and other benefits payments of salary, pension and benefits in lieu of his notice period i. e. the period from January 1, 2018 to August 20, 2018 with a value of $494,997.
The payments will be reduced by the value of his salary and pension benefits from his new employment during his notice period following his departure from Shire and the first payments will be delayed by six months to comply with U. S. tax regulations.
The first payment will therefore not be made until the first payroll date in July 2018.
Mr. Poulton will continue to be eligible to participate in the Companys medical and dental benefit plans for the remainder of his notice period following his departure with Shire.
To the extent that he becomes entitled to health coverage from his new employment, this benefit will cease immediately.
EAI Deferred shares granted under the EAI, will continue to vest at the normal date being the end of the respective three-year holding periods further details are set out in the table below.
Date of grant Number of ADSs Release date March 11, 2016 560 March 11, 2019 March 10, 2017 1,160 March 10, 2020 Mr. Poulton received an EAI award for the 2017 performance year, which was determined based on actual performance achieved against the 2017 Corporate Scorecard of 123 percent.
75 percent of this award will be paid in cash in March 2018 in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy and 25 percent will be granted in Restricted Stock Units to be released in March 2021.
This award will be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Mr. Poulton will not participate in the EAI for the 2018 performance year.
LTIP All outstanding equity awards granted under the Companys LTIP lapsed in full upon termination i. e. those granted in 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Vested SAR awards, in accordance with the terms of the legacy Portfolio Share Plan PSP, remain exercisable for a period of 12 months after the departure date, and if not exercised will lapse.
Mr. Poulton will not be granted an LTIP award in 2018 or any subsequent year.
f Payments to past Directors subject to audit No payments other than those made to Mr. Poulton set out above have been made to past Directors for the relevant financial year.
Shire Annual Report 2017 105 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued g Non-audited disclosures TSR performance graph and CEO pay The graph below shows the TSR for Shire and the FTSE 100 Index over a nine-year period.
TSR is calculated as the change indexed between the fourth quarter TSR average for the period in the relevant year and the base year.
The FTSE 100 Index reflects the 100 largest quoted companies by market capitalization in the UK and has been chosen because the FTSE 100 represents the broad market Index within which the Companys shares are traded.
The graph illustrates the change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over nine years commencing December 31, 2008 and ending December 31, 2017.
2 Dr. Ornskov did not have any long-term incentive awards vest until 2015.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of the CEO between the current and previous financial year compared to the average percentage change for all other employees.
Percentage change between 2016 to 2017 Salary Taxable Short-term 1 and fees benefits incentives 2 CEO 0% -88% -30% 3 All other employees 7% 8% 6% 1 Due to timing of the 2017 year end process, the actual short-term incentive figures for all other employees had not been finalized by the date of this report.
Therefore, the 2017 short-term incentive figures represent target figures multiplied by the 2017 Corporate Bonus Modifier score approved by the Committee inearlyFebruary, which represents the Companys best estimate of actual bonus outcomes.
2 Reflects the 2016 and 2017 remuneration for Dr. Ornskov as reported in the single total figure of remuneration table in Part 2 b.
3 Reflects the average change in remuneration for all other legacy Shire employees that were eligible for annual bonuses under Shires corporate bonus plan.
Tohelpminimize distortions in the underlying data, certain adjustments have been made.
In particular, the figures have been prepared on the basis of permanent employees who have been employed with the Company for the two preceding calendar years to provide for a consistent employee comparator group the figures therefore exclude legacy Baxalta employees.
This approach is consistent with the disclosure presented in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The above disclosure shows a significant decrease in the CEOs taxable benefits of 88 percent from 2016 to 2017.
This is due to the specific support that was provided to the CEO in 2016 to relocate his family from Switzerland to Boston.
The benefit provision for 2016 is not typical and it is not intended that such support will be provided in future years.
In addition, there has been a 30% decrease in short-term incentives for the CEO from 2016 to 2017 as a result of the Committee determining that the CEOs 2017 short-term incentive outcome should be aligned with overall corporate funding of the Companys bonus pool.
As such, the CEOs 2017 award is equal to the corporate funding of 123 percent of target versus 175 percent of target in2016.
106 Shire Annual Report 2017 Rebased to 100 GBP M Relative importance of spend on pay Percentage 2017 2016 change 1 Overall spend on pay $ million 1,208.00 1,143.50 6% Non GAAP EBITDA from continuing operations $ billion 6.5 4.7 38% Shareholder dividends $ million 281.3 171.3 64% 1 Overall spend on pay figures are based on legacy Shire results for comparison purposes as 2016 data for legacy Baxalta is not readily available.
Overall spend on pay increased by 6 percent in 2017 versus the prior year.
Non GAAP EBITDA increased by 38 percent in 2017 mainly driven by the inclusion of 12 months of financial data for legacy Baxalta versus only 7 months in the prior year.
Shareholder dividends increased by 64 percent in 2017 primarily due to the significantly increased number of shares in issue following the acquisition of Baxalta.
Remuneration Committee Terms of reference The Committee is responsible for establishing and monitoring the broad remuneration policy for the organization and the individual packages for the Chairman, Executive Directors and certain other senior leadership roles.
Within the agreed policy, the Committee determines the terms and conditions to be included in service agreements, including termination payments and compensation commitments, where applicable.
The Committee also determines performance targets applicable to the Companys annual bonus and long-term incentive plans, and has oversight of the Companys share incentive schemes.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in February 2017 and are available in full on the Companys website www.
Other information included on or accessible through our website does not constitute a part of this report and the reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of such information, and should not be relied upon.
Remuneration Committee activities in 2017 In 2017, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table.
Overall remuneration Approved 2016 performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, the CFO and the Executive Committee Reviewed market trends for the Chairman, CEO, CFO and Non-Executive Director remuneration Reviewed 2017 year-end compensation process and budgets for all employees Reviewed preliminary 2017 year-end performance and remuneration decisions for the CEO, CFO and the Executive Committee Reviewed proposed changes to Directors Remuneration Policy and incentive designs Short-term incentives Assessed Company performance against the 2016 Corporate Scorecard and the resulting funding Approved 2017 Corporate Scorecard Reviewed proposed 2018 Corporate Scorecard Long-term incentives Approved 2017 performance measures for 2017 LTIP awards Approved annual offerings of Sharesave and GESPP awards Reviewed performance against outstanding LTIP performance cycles and consideration of potential SAEs Governance Approved 2017 DRR Received regular updates on legislative, regulatory and corporate governance changes Considered trends in executive remuneration and corporate governance developments Reviewed CEO, CFO and Executive Committees shareholdings Reviewed Committees effectiveness Reviewed Companys UK Gender Pay Gap disclosure Shareholder consultation Reviewed letter to shareholders in advance of the 2017 AGM Consulted with shareholders in advance of the 2017 AGM Approved approach to shareholder consultation exercise regarding Remuneration Policy renewal Sent letter to shareholders setting out proposed changes to Remuneration Policy Held initial consultations with shareholders on proposed changes to Remuneration Policy Reviewed feedback received from shareholder consultation exercise Conducted additional consultations with shareholders on proposed Remuneration Policy Shire Annual Report 2017 107 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of shareholder voting The table below shows how shareholders voted related to the advisory vote on the Remuneration Report at the AGM held on April 25, 2017 and to the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy at the April 28, 2015 AGM.
Votes cast as a % For including of relevant discretionary shares in 1 votes Percent Against Percent issue Withheld Advisory vote April 25, 2017 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 615,163,095 93.22 44,723,057 6.78 72.75 7,521,281 Binding vote April 28, 2015 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 414,168,513 93.99 26,500,604 6.01 74.49 3,027,344 1 Votes withheld are not a vote in law and are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes validly cast.
Advisers In discharging its responsibilities in 2017, the Committee was assisted by Shires Chief Human Resources Officer and Group Vice President, Total Rewards.
In addition,  LLP PwC, appointed by the Committee, continued to serve as independent external adviser to the Committee.
PwC also provided global consultancy services to the Company in 2017, primarily relatingto tax matters.
Fees paid to PwC for services provided to the Committee totaled 355,936 in 2017.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received by PwC related to executive remuneration matters was independent.
The Committee assessed the potential for conflicts of interest and concluded that there were appropriate safeguards.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which operates in accordance with a code of conduct related to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Approval Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Albert Stroucken Chairman of the Remuneration Committee February 16, 2018 108 Shire Annual Report 2017
