GOVERNANCE | Remuneration and Nomination Committee Report Remuneration and Nomination Committee RNC Report Membership Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director Key Objectives To ensure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, and to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
Respons bilities Determine the remuneration of the Directors: Prepare an annual report on Directors remuneration: Considers the need to appoint external remuneration consultants: Regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation to the structure, size and composition of the Board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the non-executive Directors: Oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors see page 27 : Reviews the tenure of each of the non-executive Directors: Leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Company: Makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards committees: and Is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
RNC Meetings Only members of the RNC and the Secretary have the right to attend RNC meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager, Administrator and Sub-Administrator are invited by the RNC to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
In the event of matters arising concerning either an individuals membership of the Board or their remuneration, they would absent themselves from the meeting as required and another independent non-executive Director would take the chair if this applied to the RNC Chairman.
Main Activities during the Year The RNC met once during the year and considered succession planning and replenishment of the Board and reviewed directors remuneration.
The RNC also reviewed the results of the external board evaluation and considered that the results provided confirmed the continued appropriateness of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company.
The terms of reference for the RNC were reviewed and the Board adopted revised terms of reference for the RNC.
The current terms of reference remain appropriate and are available on the Companys website at www.
The Boards diversity policy was agreed in March 2012.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and Hampton-Alexander Review, notes the recommendations of the Parker Review and believes in and values the importance of diversity, including gender, to the effective functioning of the Board.
At 31 December 2017, the Board had 25% female representation.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
The RNC reviewed the fees paid to the board of directors of similar investment companies and agreed that the current level of fees remained appropriate.
Further, the RNC considered the remuneration policy and agreed that it remained appropriately positioned.
s Remuneration Report to shareholders from the RNC on behalf of the Board, is contained on pages 38 tc Sandra Platts On behalf of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 9 April 2018 37 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
