com Corporate Governance Principal risks and uncertainties Internal Audit function The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are set out in the During the year the Group operated its own internal audit function supported by a co-source arrangement with PwC to supplement resources and provide risk management report section of the Strategic report on pages 22 to 26. capability in specialist areas.
The Head of Internal Audit is invited to attend the Audit and Risk Committee.
A new Head of Internal Audit was appointed External Audit during the year to lead the internal audit function and the Committee Independence is vital for the integrity of the audit.
The Committee is satisfied oversaw the selection and transition processes.
that Deloitte are fully independent from the Companys management and have no conflicts of interest.
The review of any non-audit fees ensures that The internal audit plan was discussed and approved by the Committee continued independence is maintained.
All non-audit spend is reviewed by including subsequent changes.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Committee in accordance with the SANNE guidelines.
the internal audit plan to ensure the audit scope continues to focus on all relevant areas of activity.
The internal audit reports detailing issues identified The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Group's external auditor incumbents and management action taken to improve the control environment were prior to IPO in 2015 is kept under review.
The Company is required to presented to the Committee for their consideration.
undertake a competitive tender for the role of external auditor every ten years.
The present audit partner Andy Isham has been the audit partner Internal control and risk management since listing.
Considerations on the length of Deloitte's tenure and the As part of its ongoing monitoring the Committee received written reports requirements for a future tender process were considered by the Audit from Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk at its meetings.
function is led by the Chief Risk Officer who monitors risk across the business.
The Committee oversees the global risk matters for the business, in particular Effectiveness of external audit it has responsibility for identifying and assessing all risks across the Group.
It A review was held by the Audit and Risk Committee on the effectiveness of ensures these risks are appropriately managed and controlled.
Consideration was given to: Controls were embedded within the business processes, forming part The quality of planning: of the culture with emphasis on clear management accountabilities and Communication between the audit team and management: responsibilities.
The Audit and Risk Committee responded quickly to emerging risks, both within the Group and the external business environment.
The The quality and knowledge of the audit team: Committee introduced procedures for reporting any control failings, or Regulatory insights: weaknesses, together with the details of corrective action taken to improve The holding of regular meetings with the Chair of the Committee, CFO the internal controls.
and Head of Finance: and Whistleblowing The overall performance and the delivery of the audit.
During the year the Whistleblowing Policy was reviewed by the Committee to Following the Committee's review it was concluded that Deloitte provided ensure that it was effective.
The Group has a Whistleblower system enabling a quality audit and it was agreed to recommend to the Board the employees who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, reappointment of Deloitte as auditor and a resolution proposing this has and abuse of assets or violations of any Company policy, to report these been included in the Notice of the AGM.
Audit and non-audit fees Training The Committee provides approval for non-audit fee spend in accordance As part of the Group training programme, courses are provided in person and with the FRC Ethical Standard.
Assurance is provided to ensure that there as computer based training.
Courses on data security, anti-money laundering is no threat to the auditor's independence and objectivity.
The Policy and compliance are provided Group-wide.
governing non-audit spend was reviewed by the Committee during the year and it applies additional restrictions on the use of Deloitte's services.
GDPR and cyber security The Committee monitors expenditure on non-audit services and each item Information has been provided to the Committee on IT data security and data requires approval in advance.
The Chief Information Officer CIO has advised the Committee The Group Audit Fee was 493,000.
The fees paid for non-audit services to on information security and this is monitored by IT and the Chief Operating Deloitte were 306,000.
The ratio of non-audit fee to audit fee is 62%.
Our data protection and GDPR implementation programme is level of non-audit fees is expected to reduce following the revision of the managed by the COO.
During the year the Group incurred non-audit fees were incurred for work on: Solvas Asset Management relating to client services business systems software: services in relation to FATCA and CRS: ISE 3401 type 1 reporting: ISRS44400 in relation to capital to South Africa : capital adequacy work in South Africa for IDS Manco: and an interim opinion under ISRE 2410.
It was considered by the Committee that there was no perceived threat to auditor independence as there was no relationship to the financial reports and that these items would not impact auditor independence.
The external auditors were considered the most suitable supplier for these services taking into account the alignment of these services to the work undertaken by external audit and Deloitte's skill sets.
indd 55 23 03 2018 16:24:22 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued Regulatory change and compliance Viability statement The Committee and the Board are provided with technical updates on The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year regulatory and legislative changes at each meeting.
The Committee monitors period, taking account of the Group's current position and the potential regulatory changes along with the Board.
impact of the principal risks documented in the strategic report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Committee Effectiveness review over the three year period.
The Committee in 2017 had an external evaluation and information about the proceedings, the minutes and advisers and their roles were reviewed.
The In making this statement the Directors have considered the current financial evaluation was positive and covered the operation and administration of the position of the Group and the resilience of the Group in the event of severe Committee.
The modelling of these scenarios has taken into account the principal risks and their impact on the business model, future Following the evaluation, the Committee was reported as being run performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
professionally and effectively under the Chairman's guidance.
The creation of a separate Risk Committee was considered to be a positive development.
It On the basis that the Group has limited exposure to long-term financial was agreed that there were opportunities to have more regulatory updates.
commitments the Directors have determined that the three year period is an More use of the auditors and other advisers would be considered for training appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
and technical updates going forward.
Priorities for 2018 The priorities for the new Audit Committee over the next 12 months are as follows: To monitor the external auditor and to assist with their understanding of the business: To ensure the audit is aligned with the business and its strategic objectives: Andy Pomfret Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee To liaise with the newly established Risk Committee to ensure that any 21 March 2018 linked matters are fully understood: To monitor regulatory changes and the impact of external factors on the Group: and To monitor changes in corporate governance and assess their impact on the Group.
Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing the Annual Report and Accounts and have assessed that the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate in preparing the financial statements and that there are no material uncertainties to disclose.
After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation based upon the current financial projections and the bank facilities available that the Group had adequate resources to continue in operation.
Accordingly the Company continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
com Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, In determining remuneration levels, the the report of the Remuneration Committee in Committee takes into account typical market respect of the year ended 31 December 2017.
At practice for a company of this size and complexity, this years AGM, there will be a single advisory the performance of the Company, the Executive vote on this annual statement and the annual Directors Jersey location and its lower personal report on remuneration as the remuneration tax rate, their current significant equity holdings policy that was approved at the 2016 AGM will and experience and the Committees responsibility continue to apply in 2018. to Shareholders.
I set out below a reminder of the objectives of the Performance and remuneration policy, the performance outcomes reward for 2017 in respect of the 2017 financial year and, following a consultation with investor bodies in early 2017, SANNE delivered strong performance in 2017 in how we intend to operate the policy in 2018, the terms of revenue, earnings and cash generation.
Nicola Palios final year of the three year policy.
Chairm an of th e It also completed a material strategic acquisition ro o in Mauritius and made significant progress on the Objectives of the integration of that and of prior acquisitions.
remuneration policy This performance resulted in the Remuneration Committee approving payments under the bonus and link to strategy The Company's plan of between 36% and 40% of base salary, The Companys remuneration report was well which may appear low in light of the strong received and obtained 98.55% support at the 2017 remuneration report performance.
However this reflects the fact AGM.
Underpinning the Companys policy, the that SANNE is part way through a transition of Committees objective is to ensure remuneration was well received remuneration packages and therefore the financial encourages, reinforces and rewards the growth and non-financial bonus targets had been set at of Shareholder value and promotes the long-term a very challenging level.
It is anticipated, as part and obtained 98.55% success of the Company.
The Committee agreed of the planned 3 year transition explained at the that executive remuneration should have the time of the 2016 policy vote, that 2018 targets will support at the 2017 following aims: be set closer to normal market levels.
We expect Be set with regard to pay levels and personal payments to be higher if targets are met and by AGM.
tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which 2019 we expect to be inline with market norms.
the Company operates, whilst complying The transition of the remuneration packages will with UK plc structural norms and good then be complete.
practice: During the year, awards were made to the Attract, retain and motivate high calibre Directors under the Performance Share Plan.
senior management through a significant These will vest after 3 years subject to achieving weighting on performance-related pay: challenging underlying diluted EPS targets for the 2019 financial year.
Full details of the awards Be simple and understandable, both granted are set out in the Annual Report on externally and to colleagues: Remuneration.
Achieve consistency of approach across the senior management population to the extent appropriate, informed by relevant local market benchmarks: Encourage widespread share ownership across the executive team to ensure a longterm focus and alignment of interest with Shareholders: Be consistent with regulatory and corporate governance requirements: and Not reward behaviour that inappropriately increases the Companys exposure to risks outside of the Companys risk appetite.
indd 57 23 03 2018 16:24:22 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
The Committee welcomes any feedback on this Application of policy in 2018 Board and management report and the current policy.
If you would like to changes Base salaries get in touch, then please do so through the Group At the end of 2017, there were senior Company Secretary.
As set out in last years remuneration report management changes at the Board that were the Committee consulted with Shareholders I would like to thank my colleagues on the effective from 1 January 2018. and agreed to adopt a phased approach to Committee for their time and support during the salary increases.
The Committee considered Phil Godley stepped down from the Board on year.
both Company and personal performance to 1 January 2018.
The arrangements for Phil be strong during 2017 and therefore saw no On behalf of the Board, I look forward to your as a former Director are disclosed on our reason to deviate from the proposed salary support at the 2018 AGM.
Accordingly, the CEOs salary increased to 292,000 and the CFOs salary increased to Mel Carvill joined the Board on 1 January 210,000 with effect from 1 January 2018.
2018 as an additional Non-executive Director.
Mel Chairs the Risk Committee, and has While the Committee acknowledges that the joined the Audit and Nomination and percentage salary increases are high, the 2018 Governance Committees.
salaries set out above are still significantly below typical FTSE levels for a company of this size.
Other key decisions Recognising the lower tax rates in Jersey, the The Chairman's fee has increased from 140,000 2018 salaries will give, net of tax, total target to 160,000 with effect from 1 January 2018.
Nicola Palios remuneration values closer in line with, but still This reflects the substantial increase both in time Chair of the Remuneration Committee below that of a UK taxpayer.
The Company is required and also in the size and scope of the conscious that the business is significantly larger 21 March 2018 business since listing.
The Non-executive Director and more complex than when it went to market fees are set out in the table on page 68. in 2015.
In light of this and the need to renew our policy in 2019 the Committee will consider salary Conclusion positioning to attract, retain and recruit executives The Company has significantly outperformed the in our market.
FTSE and has become more complex through a combination of organic growth in targeted markets 2018 incentives and successfully integrated acquisitions.
Later The annual bonus opportunity for Executive this year, the Committee will carry out a review of Directors for 2018 shall be unchanged at 100% executive remuneration in advance of a binding of salary.
For 2018, 75% of the overall bonus remuneration policy vote in 2019.
Any substantive will continue to be based on a sliding scale of changes to the current policy will be subject to challenging underlying profit before tax targets prior consultation with leading investors.
and the remaining 25% will be based on nonfinancial targets.
The underlying profit before We will keep our approach under review to ensure tax targets and the non-financial targets are the Committee considers evolving best practice, considered to be commercially sensitive and so regulatory developments and the UK Corporate are not disclosed in this report, but the Committee Governance Code.
will disclose both in next years remuneration report.
Half of any bonus will be paid in cash and the other half will be deferred in shares for three years.
The grant level under the Performance Share Plan for Executive Directors will also be unchanged at 100% of salary.
The awards will vest after three years subject to achievement against a sliding scale of underlying diluted EPS targets.
A two year post-vest holding period will apply creating a five year gap between grant and the ability to sell vested awards save for any share sale to cover personal tax liabilities on vesting exercise.
com Corporate Governance Regulatory regime for Director Reviews As part of our year-end review processes the disclosure and voting on Executive Directors met with the Chairman or in Directors remuneration the case of the CFO, with the CEO, and underwent The UK remuneration reporting regulations a formal performance evaluation.
The reviews contain provisions which make Shareholder covered their performance and effectiveness.
approval of the policy of UK-incorporated Approach to recruitment companies binding.
As the Company is not UKincorporated those provisions have no legal effect.
When recruiting new Executive Directors, base However, the Company has taken steps to limit salary, benefits, annual bonus and long-term the power of the Remuneration Committee so incentives would be set in accordance with the that, with effect from the date on which the policy Remuneration Policy in place at the time of on remuneration was approved by Shareholders, appointment.
Base salaries are set to take into the Committee can only authorise payments account the experience of the candidate subject to Directors that are consistent with the policy to the Committee's judgement that the level of as approved by Shareholders.
In that way the remuneration is in the Company's best interests.
Company considers the vote of Shareholders on The Committee can use its authority to match the policy to be binding in its application.
previous benefits or remuneration arrangements.
If a new Chairman or Non-executive Director is The Remuneration Policy set out below was appointed remuneration arrangements will be in approved at the AGM on 5 May 2016 and became line with the Remuneration Policy and the current effective from that date.
All remuneration and rates set for Non-executive Directors.
loss of office payments will only be made if they are consistent with the approved policy.
Specific Directors Remuneration details on how the Company will implement the Policy in 2018 are provided in the Annual Report Policy on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and senior management is designed to support Advisers the business needs of the Group, to ensure it has As part of the Committee's role it obtains external the ability to attract and retain senior leaders of a advice to ensure that its remuneration practices high calibre, and to align the long-term interests of support and are linked to the business strategy Executive Directors and senior management with and are market competitive.
During 2017 the those of our Shareholders.
Committee had advice from New Bridge Street Remuneration for Executive NBS a trading name of Aon plc.
NBS did not provide any further services to the Group in the Directors year under review.
The main component parts of the remuneration NBS are members of the Remuneration policy in respect of Executive Directors are Consultants Group and adhere to the Code of summarised in the following table, explaining how Conduct in relation to executive remuneration each element operates and how each part links to consulting in the UK.
In 2017 the fees paid to NBS amounted to 35,300.
Charges were based upon time spent on the services and the seniority of staff performing the work.
indd 59 23 03 2018 16:24:22 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
Remuneration Policy table Framework Purpose and Element Operation Maximum opportunity used to assess link to strategy performance Salary Essential to Salaries are paid monthly.
They are The Committee is conscious that Individual recruit and normally reviewed annually with salary levels, at the time of setting and Company retain Executive changes effective from 1 January this policy, are positioned below performance is taken Directors.
but may be reviewed more mid-market levels and this policy into account when frequently.
contains flexibility to increase salary determining the Reflects an levels as the Company matures and annual increase.
individuals Decisions on changes to salaries are the pre-IPO share awards unwind.
experience, role, influenced by a variety of factors Potentially material increases may competency and including: be made during this policy period performance.
and, ultimately, the intention is to the commercial need to do so: pay around mid-market levels with the role, experience, annual increases thereafter typically responsibility and performance in line with the wider workforce.
of both the individual and Increases beyond those granted to Company : the workforce may be awarded in increases applied to the certain circumstances.
For example, broader workforce: and where: periodic benchmarking of an Executive Directors starting similar roles in broadly similar salary has been set at lower UK-listed companies of a than typical market salary to similar size and in the Channel allow for growth in the role Islands.
and further experience to be gained, then larger increases may be awarded to move salary positioning closer to an appropriate benchmark for the role: the Committee considers it appropriate and necessary such as when an individual assumes more responsibility or his or her performance warrants such an increase : there has been a change in market practice or as a result of new regulations: or the size, value or complexity of the Group warrants a higher salary positioning.
The Committee will also take into account SANNE-specific factors such as its recent listing and the transition from private to public company, pay levels in Jersey and its lower personal tax rate compared with the UK.
com Corporate Governance Framework Purpose and Element Operation Maximum opportunity used to assess link to strategy performance Benefits Operate A range of benefits are provided by The cost of providing market No performance competitive and the Company to Executive Directors competitive benefits may vary from metrics apply.
cost-effective that may include Group income year to year depending on the cost benefits to help protection insurance, life assurance to the Company from third party recruit and and family private medical cover.
retain Executive Relocation assistance or other Directors.
relocation related expenses, Certain benefits disturbance allowances and tax such as medical equalisation arrangements in cover are provided relation to additional international to minimise tax and social security contributions disruption to may be offered, as required.
the day-to-day Secondment fees may be offered operation of the where an Executive Director is asked business.
to work temporarily in a different location.
Other reasonable benefits may be introduced to reflect typical practice and the individuals country of residence.
Executive Directors may participate in all-employee, tax-efficient share plans subject to prescribed limits.
Pension To provide While no pension contributions will The Company contribution to No performance a marketbe provided in the year this policy defined contribution plans or salary metrics apply.
competitive, is being approved, the Committee supplement in lieu of pension may cost-effective wishes to retain the flexibility to be made up to the value of 15% of contribution provide a pension contribution in salary.
towards postfuture years governed by this policy.
retirement This may take the form of a benefits.
contribution to a personal or Company-operated defined contribution pension plan or a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
indd 61 23 03 2018 16:24:23 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
Framework Purpose and Element Operation Maximum opportunity used to assess link to strategy performance Annual bonus To motivate Bonus payment is determined by The maximum opportunity under The bonus may Executive Directors the Committee after the year end, this policy is 150% of base salary.
The be based on the and incentivise based on performance against the current annual bonus opportunity is achievement of an the achievement targets set.
Targets are reviewed 100% of base salary.
appropriate mix of of annual financial annually at the start of the financial challenging financial, and or strategic year.
Bonus is payable in a mix of cash Bonus deferral in and deferred shares usually Financial measures, shares provides structured as conditional awards or which will typically a retention as nil or nominal cost options which account for the element and extra vest after a deferred period.
majority of the bonus alignment with opportunity, may Recovery and withholding provisions Shareholders.
include measures such would apply if, within three years as Group or business of the payment of a bonus and or unit profit taking into grant of a deferred bonus award, account the strategic it is discovered that the bonus or objectives of the award was granted to a greater business from time to extent than warranted as a result of time.
a material misstatement of financial results, a miscalculation in the grant For financial metrics, or assessment of performance a range of targets is conditions or where serious set by the Committee, misconduct has been discovered.
taking into account factors such as the An additional payment in the form business outlook for of cash or shares may be made in the year.
respect of shares that vest to reflect the value of dividends that would If non-financial or have been paid on deferred shares individual measures during the deferral period.
are included, where possible a performance range will be set, although this will depend on the measure chosen.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee year on year based on the Companys strategic goals.
com Corporate Governance Framework Purpose and Element Operation Maximum opportunity used to assess link to strategy performance Performance Incentivises Awards are normally granted The maximum annual award under The exercise selected annually in the form of either the PSP that may be granted to an of awards is Share Plan employees and nominal or nil-cost options and vest individual in any financial year is conditional upon the Executive Directors after three years.
Current award achievement of one to achieve levels are 100% of base salary.
or more challenging Stretching performance conditions demanding performance normally measured over a period of financial and targets set by the three years determine the extent to superior longRemuneration which awards vest.
term Shareholder Committee at the returns.
time of grant and Award levels are reviewed annually measured over a taking into account matters Retains key three-year period.
such as market practice, overall employees over remuneration, the performance of the medium term.
In determining the the Company and the recipients of target range for any the award.
Aligns the interests financial measures of the participants that may apply, the Recovery and withholding provisions and Shareholders Committee ensures would apply if within three years through the they are challenging of vesting it is discovered that the requirement to by taking into award vested to a greater extent build and maintain account current and than warranted as a result of a a substantial anticipated trading material misstatement of financial shareholding.
conditions, the results, a miscalculation in the grant long-term business or assessment of performance plan and external conditions or where serious expectations.
Performance periods A payment either in cash or will usually commence shares may be made on vesting of from the start of the awards by reference to the value financial year in which of dividends paid during the period the award is made.
No more than 25% There will be a two-year holding of the relevant part period on shares acquired from of the award would vested awards.
vest for achieving the threshold level of performance.
The Committee retains the flexibility to vary the mix of metrics for each years award in light of the business priorities at the time or to introduce new measures to support the long-term business strategy.
indd 63 23 03 2018 16:24:23 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
Framework Purpose and Element Operation Maximum opportunity used to assess link to strategy performance NonTo attract and The fees of the Non-executive Details of current fees are set out in No performance retain high quality Directors are set by the Board and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
executive and experienced the Chairmans fee is set by the Directors Non-executive Committee the Chairman and the fees Directors.
Non-executive Directors do not take part in any discussion of their own fees.
Fees are reviewed periodically by reference to market levels and likely time commitment.
The Chairman receives a basic fee covering all his responsibilities.
Non-executive Directors receive a fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees for those who chair the primary Board committees and the Senior Independent Director.
The level of fees of the Chairman and other Non-executive Directors reflect the time commitment and responsibility of their respective roles.
Their fees are reviewed from time to time against broadly similar UK-listed companies and companies of a similar size.
The Chairman and other Nonexecutive Directors do not participate in any incentive arrangements and they do not receive a pension contribution.
They do not receive any benefits but they may be reimbursed for the cost of travel or overnight accommodation and related expenses incurred in carrying out their duties which are deemed taxable by the relevant tax authority including any personal tax due on such expenses.
Notes to the policy table: Annual bonus and Performance Share Plan performance metrics The annual bonus and Performance Share Plan measures are reviewed annually and reflect the key financial, strategic and operational priorities of the Group.
Stretching targets are set by the Committee taking account of the Companys business plan and external expectations.
Maximum opportunity under remuneration elements The Committee would normally consult with major Shareholders prior to making any material increases to remuneration.
com Corporate Governance Framework Purpose and Element Operation Maximum opportunity used to assess link to strategy performance Share To align interests of Executive Directors are required Not applicable.
No performance management and to build up and maintain a metrics apply.
ownership Shareholders and shareholding in the Company equal policy promote a longto at least 200% of salary.
term approach to Only shares owned outright by performance and Executive Directors are included in risk management.
The Committee will review progress annually with an expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards the achievement of the shareholding policy guideline each year.
At least half of vested PSP and deferred share bonus awards after the sale of shares to cover associated personal tax liabilities are expected be retained until the guideline is met.
Remuneration Committee scope for discretion The policy may be adjusted to take account of external legal, tax or regulatory changes in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates, to ensure that it may operate as intended.
The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and the Performance Share Plan according to their respective rules the terms of which were summarised for Shareholders in the Companys IPO Prospectus and the policy set out above.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following: Who participates in the plan: the timing of grant and or payment: the size of an award and or a payment: the choice of performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan: the ability to vary any performance conditions if circumstances occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to determine that the original conditions have ceased to be appropriate provided that any change is fair and reasonable and in the Committees opinion, not materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and recovery and withholding of any award within a three year period of the later of the grant date or vesting date.
Any use of discretion would be in exceptional circumstances, would where relevant be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of consultation with the Companys major Shareholders.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, any remuneration or payments for loss of office that are not in line with this policy may be made if the terms were agreed before the approval of this policy including the release of ordinary shares subject to an extended restricted sale period as set out in the IPO Prospectus.
In addition, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into at a time when the relevant employee was not a Director of the Company.
indd 65 23 03 2018 16:24:23 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Report is audited, unless otherwise stated.
Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors The charts below give an indication of the level of remuneration that would be received by each Executive Director in accordance with the policy as it will apply for the 2018 financial year in respect of minimum pay fixed pay, on-target and maximum performance based on assumptions set out below.
On-Target: In respect of the 2018 annual bonus, the chart assumes 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity will be payable for target performance and half the PSP awards vest based on a grant value of 100% of salary.
Maximum: Comprises fixed pay and assumes that the maximum annual bonus is paid and the 2018 PSP grant vests in full.
No account has been taken of any movement in share price affecting the value of the PSP award.
Executive Directors service contracts The Committees policy is for Executive Directors service agreements contracts to be terminable on no more than six months notice.
The details of existing Executive Directors service contracts are summarised in the table Executive Director Date of service contract Notice Period Dean Godwin 09 03 2015 Six months notice from either party Spencer Daley Executive Directors contracts contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice.
The Committee will take into consideration the circumstances and reasons for departure, including the individuals performance, in every case.
In the event of an Executive Directors departure the Company may, at its discretion, pay base salary in lieu of any unexpired part of an Executive Directors notice period, either in equal monthly instalments until the end of the notice period or as a lump sum.
Service contracts may be terminated without notice and without any payment in lieu of notice in certain circumstances, such as gross misconduct or gross negligence.
If the Executive Director is put on garden leave, then he remains in employment and may continue to receive base salary and benefits during that period.
In addition, the Committee may agree to payment of outplacement counselling costs and disbursements such as legal costs if considered to be appropriate and dependent on the circumstances of departure.
com Corporate Governance All Executive Directors service agreements and pay award in relation to the previous role will be Treatment of incentives Non-executive Directors letters of appointment allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant on loss of office are available for inspection at the Companys even if not awarded under the terms of this policy.
As a general rule, the opportunity to receive registered office at 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed a bonus in respect of the relevant bonus year Jersey, JE4 5UT.
following a merger or acquisition of another will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold company, any legacy pay arrangements may be employment or to be an Executive Director.
The Company may agree, on the appointment of However, where the individual is considered Fees for newly appointed Non-executive Directors a new Executive Director, that any notice given a good leaver in the event of death, injury, will be set in line with the approved policy.
by the Company will not expire prior to the first disability, retirement with the agreement of his or anniversary of the commencement date of the her employer, redundancy, or sale of employing Consideration of Executive Directors appointment.
company or business out of the Group or for any Shareholder views other reason at the discretion of the Committee In setting the remuneration for a new Executive The Committee considers an open and the Committee may determine that such individual Director, the Remuneration Committee will take constructive dialogue with investors to shall remain eligible for consideration for the into account the calibre of the individual, market be important to establishing a successful payment of a prorated bonus on the normal data and the remuneration arrangements for remuneration policy which is considered fair payment date or such earlier date the Committee current Executive Directors.
The remuneration and transparent by both Executive Directors and determines.
No bonus will be payable for any package for a new Executive Director will be set in Shareholders.
Therefore, the Committee will seek period of notice not worked.
accordance with the Companys approved policy as to engage proactively with major Shareholders set out in the remuneration policy table.
Any outstanding share awards held by a departing and Shareholder bodies whenever any material Executive Director will be treated in accordance changes are being proposed to the remuneration Fixed pay with the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment policy or to how the current policy will be Salary levels for Executive Directors will be set under the deferred element of the Annual Bonus operated.
in accordance with the Companys policy, taking Plan and Performance Share Plan is that any into account the experience and calibre of the The Committee Chair will inform major outstanding awards will lapse on cessation of individual and existing remuneration package.
Shareholders of such changes in advance and will employment.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
The However, in certain prescribed good leaver initially for either an internal promotion or Committee also welcomes investor feedback and circumstances as set out earlier and in any other external recruit a series of increases to the desired will consider views raised at the AGM and at other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee: salary positioning may be made over subsequent times throughout the year.
years subject to individual performance and Deferred annual bonus plan awards will development in the role.
Benefits will generally Consideration of vest at cessation or such later date as be provided in line with those offered to other employment conditions the Committee determines and to such Executive Directors but will also take into account extent which may include the full extent of elsewhere in the Group local practice.
Relocation assistance or other the award as the Committee determines related expenses, including tax equalisation The Committee does not consult with employees appropriate: and benefits, may be provided if necessary.
directly on matters of Executive Director PSP awards will vest at the normal vesting remuneration.
However, the Committee is aware Variable pay date unless the Committee determines of the disconnect which can be created if Executive The Annual Bonus Plan and Performance Share that they may vest earlier, from the date Director remuneration is set in isolation and Plan participation will be in accordance with of cessation.
In either case, the number of therefore is updated during the year with details the Companys approved policy detailed above.
awards capable of being exercised will be of the pay and employment conditions in the Different performance measures may be set determined by reference to the satisfaction wider workforce.
In particular, the Committee is initially, taking into account the responsibilities of of performance criteria and reduced pro rata made aware of general salary increases, general the individual, and the point in the financial year for time unless the Committee determines benefit provision and the proposed level of annual that he or she joined the Board.
that prorating should apply to a lesser extent bonuses.
The Committee is also responsible for or not at all in the particular circumstances.
reviewing the proposed participants of the PSP.
Buy-out awards In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary Non-executive Directors to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements All Non-executive Directors have letters of which would be forfeited on leaving the previous appointment with the Company for an initial employer, this would be provided for taking into period of three years, subject to annual account the form cash or shares, timing and reappointment at the AGM.
Appointments are expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any terminable by either party on three months existing performance criteria of the remuneration written notice.
The appointment letters for being forfeited.
The principle will be that any the Non-executive Directors provide that no replacement awards will be of broadly comparable compensation is payable on termination, other value to what the Executive Director has left than accrued fees and expenses.
Replacement share awards, if used, may be granted using the Companys existing share plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes.
In the case of an internal hire, any legacy variable 67 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
indd 67 23 03 2018 16:24:23 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Report is audited, unless otherwise stated.
Remuneration payable to each Director for service in 2017 The table below sets out the remuneration for each Director in 2017 and in the prior year.
The disclosures are in respect of qualifying services and are based on full financial years 1 January to 31 December.
It should be noted that salary increases received during the year took effect from 1 April 2017.
Benefits comprise the value of Group income protection insurance, life assurance, private medical cover.
No pension contribution was provided by the Company in 2016 or 2017.
There was no PSP award capable of vesting in 2016 or 2017.
Details of the bonus in respect of 2017 performance is provided overleaf.
2017 Annual Bonus out-turn As I have indicated in my 2016 Annual Statement, the Committee has decided to phase in the move towards an appropriate level of total remuneration for the Executive Directors over a small number of years.
This approach applied in 2017 and was reflected in an extremely tough set of financial and non-financial targets.
The out-turns, therefore, are not what the Committee expects to award in future years and instead arise as a result of 2017 being a transition year.
Bonuses paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 were based 75% on underlying profit before tax PBT targets and 25% on non-financial targets.
PBT targets 75% Bonus outcome Performance measure Weighting % Threshold Maximum Actual % of maximum Underlying PBT targets 75% 33,469 47,091 38,077 33.8% Bonus would begin to accrue for achieving 2017 underlying PBT of 33.5 million, increasing to full payout for achieving 47.1 million.
Performance against non-financial targets The Committee spent time evaluating the performance of the Executive Directors.
Details of Dean Godwins achievements against key objectives set are as follows: Delivering the Groups strategy and in particular, integrating acquisitions: Ensuring the appropriate management and resources are in place to strengthen the management team and ensure delivery across the regions and in head-office: Preparing SANNE for its next stage of development and preparing strategic plans: and Driving inorganic growth.
Details of Spencer Daleys achievements against objectives set are as follows: Driving the use of Finances IT roadmap and leading the integrations of acquisitions in terms of financial reporting infrastructure: Integrating acquisitions and delivery of growth targets: Delivering the organisations restructuring into the Group's segmental financial and management reporting: and Carrying out fund raising exercises for acquisitions.
com Corporate Governance Details of Phil Godley's achievements against objectives are set as follow: Securing acquisitions and delivering integration: Ensuring focus on client service and delivery: and Working to prepare the Company for its next stage in development.
For the non-financial targets, the Committee determined a rating of 13 out 25 for Dean Godwin, equating to 13% of base salary, 15 out 25 for Spencer Daley, equating to 15% of base salary and 11 out 25 for Phil Godley, equating to 11% of base salary.
Bonus out-turn The total bonus payable for each executive is therefore: Maximum bonus payable % of salary Actual bonus payable % of maximum Dean Godwin 100% 38% Spencer Daley 100% 40% Philip Godley 100% 36% Performance Share Plan awards with performance period ending during the year There were no PSP awards with performance periods ending during the year or shortly after the year end.
The first award under the PSP was granted in 2016 and is based on performance for the period ending 31 December 2018.
Full disclosure on the vesting of this award will be provided in next years report.
2017 Performance Share Plan Grants On 28 April 2017 the following awards under the PSP were granted to the Executive Directors.
% of face value Basis of award Share price of vesting at threshold Vesting determined granted Shares awarded 2017 grant Face value of award performance by performance over Dean Godwin 100% of salary 35,429 663.3p 235,000 25% Three financial Spencer Daley 100% of salary 24,876 663.3p 165,000 25% years to 31 Philip Godley 100% of salary 24,876 663.3p 165,000 25% December 2019 The number of shares awarded is based on the average five day closing price immediately prior to the grant date.
The PSP awards will vest subject to achievement against a sliding scale of underlying diluted EPS targets and continued employment.
Adjusted diluted EPS for FY 2019 Proportion of award vesting Less than 32.5 pence Zero 32.5 pence 25% 36.5 pence or more 100% Awards vest on a straight line basis for performance between 32.5 pence and 36.5 pence.
During the year, the adjustments used to derive underlying profit and earnings were amended.
Specifically, share based payment charges relating to share awards granted as part of managements normal remuneration are no longer adjusted for when deriving underlying profit and earnings.
The unvested 2016 and 2017 PSP awards are subject to EPS targets that were set on the basis that all share based payment charges were non underlying.
When determining the vesting outcomes of these awards in 2018 and 2019, the Committee will seek to ensure that the profit assessment is on a like-for-like basis with the original targets.
Directors interests in shares Following the move from a private to a listed company in April 2015, the Executive Directors have significant shareholdings in the Company, very significantly in excess of the minimum shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary, as follows: Legally owned Legally owned Subject to % of salary held as at as at Extended under share 31 December 31 December Restriction Unvested ownership 1 2017 2016 Period PSP awards policy Executive Directors Dean Godwin 1,064,383 2,128,766 1,064,383 101,621 3,197% Spencer Daley 523,597 1,047,194 523,597 71,351 2,123% Philip Godley 864,419 1,728,838 864,419 71,351 3,505% Non-executive Directors Rupert Robson 14,582 14,582 n a n a n a Andy Pomfret 54,483 53,333 n a n a n a Nicola Palios 5,499 5,499 n a n a n a 1.
Calculated as legally owned shares held on 31 December 2017 multiplied by the share price on that date divided by 2018 base salary.
The share ownership guideline is set out in the Remuneration Policy on page 65.
indd 69 23 03 2018 16:24:23 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Report is audited, unless otherwise stated.
As part of the terms of the IPO, the Executive Directors agreed to a restricted sale agreement which permitted a maximum sale of 30% of the shareholding, with an extended restricted sale period that only allows 25% of the remaining shareholding to be sold on each anniversary of the listing over four years ending 2019.
In addition, there is further provision whereby should the Executive Director cease employment during this period all unreleased remaining shares, at the time of exit, will be restricted from sale until 72 months have elapsed from the listing date.
Unreleased shares can be recovered in part or in full in the event of the Executive Director failing the capability process or if he commits an act of gross misconduct.
During the period 31 December 2017 to 23 February 2018, being the latest possible date, there have been no changes in the Directors share interests.
Loss of office payment and payments to past Directors No Directors departed during 2017 and there were no payments to past Directors of the Company in the year under review.
Phil Godley stepped down from the Board but remained in employment with SANNE and accordingly no payment has been made.
Performance graph and Chief Executive Officers total remuneration history unaudited The graph below illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the FTSE Small Cap Index and FTSE 250 indices.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 150 100 50 0 1 April 2015 31 December 2015 31 December 2016 31 December 2017 Sanne FTSE SmallCap FTSE 250 Performance is shown from Admission on 1 April 2015 using the 200p offer price as the base to 31 December 2017.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested in the Company and 100 invested in the Small Cap and FTSE 250 indices and their respective performance over that period.
Both indices are shown as the Company moved from the FTSE Small Cap into the FTSE 250 during the year.
The table below details the history of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration since IPO.
In subsequent reports the table will expand until it shows ten years of data: 2015 2016 2017 Total remuneration 227,162 239,453 366,002 Annual bonus outcome % of max n a 0% 38% PSP vesting % of max n a n a n a Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer unaudited The table below shows the change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared to the change in remuneration of all full-time employees across the Group, pay-rises granted within the businesses acquired in 2016 and 2017 have been excluded from the below.
Base salary Benefits Annual bonus % Change % Change % Change CEO 14.8% N A N A Employees 3.2% 0.7% N A 70 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Corporate Governance Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited The following table sets out the percentage change in overall spend on pay, distributions to Shareholders and profit in 2017 compared to 2016: 2017 2016 % Change Staff costs 51.8m 29.4m 76.2% Distributions to Shareholders 14.7m 10.0m 47.0% Underlying profit before tax 38.1m 21.3m 78.9% During the year the increase in staff costs reflects the increased headcount primarily due to acquisitions made by the Group.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee unaudited The Companys Remuneration Committee is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee is a committee of the Board which determines the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other relevant members of senior management.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website, www.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year and their attendance: Eligible to attend Attended 4 4 Nicola Palios Chair 4 4 Rupert Robson 4 4 Andy Pomfret None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a Shareholder, conflicts of interest from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in the running of the business.
Mel Carvill joined the Board as an independent Non-executive Director on 1 January 2018 and joined the Remuneration Committee from that date.
Rupert Robson is no longer a member of the Remuneration Committee but will be invited to attend meetings, as appropriate.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Company Secretary and Head of Human Resources are invited to attend selected meetings although they are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
In addition NBS can be invited to attend as advisers.
The role of the committee unaudited The key responsibilities of the Committee are: to determine and agree with the Board the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior management: review and have regard to pay and employment conditions across the Company or Group, especially when determining annual salary increases: review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: to determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director, the Company Chairman and other designated senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: obtain information about remuneration in other companies of comparable scale: to appoint remuneration consultants and to commission reports: approve the design of, any performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total annual payments made under such schemes in accordance with the provisions in Schedule A of the Code : ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company: oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures throughout the Company or Group: agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Directors: and work and liaise as necessary with all other Board committees.
Effectiveness review unaudited During the year the Committee had an external evaluation and members of the Committee were interviewed and questionnaires completed.
The results of the evaluation were generally positive, the Committee has operated and functioned well.
The remit of the Committee will need to be expanded to deliver future requirements and an action plan will be prepared on all matters raised.
Additional governance information will be shared via the Committee portal.
indd 71 23 03 2018 16:24:24 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued The information contained in this section of the Remuneration Committee Report is unaudited.
Remuneration Committee Activities in 2017 The following provides a summary of the key areas of focus of the Committee meetings during the year.
Remuneration 31 January 2017 28 March 2017 6 September 2017 8 November 2017 Strategy and Policy Consideration approval of Remuneration Policy Discussion of DRR Approval of DRR Gender Pay Annual Salary Review of salaries for Executive Directors Annual Bonus Review of executives personal objectives Review of personal performance Determining bonus outcomes Setting measures and targets, including non-financial metrics PSP Determine vesting levels Share ownership retention guidelines Setting measures and targets Effectiveness Review Committee Effectiveness Reports from advisers Briefings including Governance Benchmark data Corporate Governance Governance Review Terms of Reference Regulation updates Other Approval of the Chairmans fees Other issues as required 72 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
