75 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Notwithstanding the provisions of the articles MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE EVALUATION of association, the Board has decided to The senior management committee is the The Board is committed to an ongoing comply with the Code requirements that key management committee for the Group.
evaluation process of itself and its Directors of companies in the FTSE 250 The standing members of the Committee Committees to assess their performance and Index submit themselves for re-election are Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer, identify areas in which their effectiveness, annually.
Therefore, all Directors are seeking Andrew Smith Chief Financial Officer, policies and processes might be enhanced.
their reappointment at this years AGM.
Shimon Akad Chief Operating Officer, Alan Jackson, in discussion with the Senior Uri Levy VP Business Development, Ian Non-executive Director, undertook a review The Board has collectively agreed that Ince Head of Regulatory and Compliance, of the performance of individual Directors.
the Directors proposed for re-election Brian Moore Company Secretary and Alex Andrew Thomas as Senior Non-executive at this years AGM have made significant Latner General Counsel.
Other members Director considered the performance of Mr contributions to the business since their last of senior management are invited to the Jackson taking into account the views of the re-election and each has a key role to play in Committee as and when required.
There were no material the formulation of the Groups future strategy.
Committee considers and discusses plans areas of concern highlighted and the main and recommendations coming from the outcome of the evaluation this year was to In certain circumstances, Directors are operational side of the business and from shape and define the Boards objectives for entitled to seek independent professional the various product verticals, in the light of the coming year, continuing the focus on advice under an agreed Board procedure, the Groups strategy and capital expenditure Group strategy and ensuring the structures, which would then be organised by the and investment budgets, including the capabilities and reporting are in place to Company Secretary, and in this regard implications of those plans in areas such achieve the Boards goals.
the Company would meet their reasonable as resources, budget, legal and compliance.
The Committee either approves the plans or A review of the Boards effectiveness as necessary refers the proposal for formal commenced in late 2017.
This review was BALANCE OF THE BOARD Board review and approval in accordance facilitated by Independent Audit Limited, with the Companys formal matters reserved The Board comprises individuals with using their Thinking Board online assessment for the Board.
wide business experience gained in service.
Independent Audit Limited have no various industry sectors related to the other connection to the Company and are Groups current business and it is the considered by the Board to be independent.
BOARD TENURE intention of the Board to ensure that the The Company Secretary is in the process In accordance with the Companys articles of balance of the Directors reflects the of finalising this review, following which the association, every new Director appointed in changing needs of the business.
board members will discuss the findings and the year is required to stand for re-election by will continue to adopt and implement plans shareholders at the Annual General Meeting The Board considers that it is of a size to further develop the effectiveness of the AGM next following their appointment.
Also, and has the balance of skills, knowledge, Board during 2018. under the articles of association, at each experience and independence that is AGM one-third of the Directors excluding appropriate for the Groups current business.
Newly appointed Directors can expect any Director who has been appointed by While not having a specific policy regarding a detailed and systematic induction on the Board since the previous AGM or, if their the constitution and balance of the Board, joining the Board.
They meet various number is not an integral multiple of three, potential new Directors are considered on members of senior management and the number nearest to one-third but not their own merits with regard to their skills, familiarise themselves with all core aspects exceeding one-third shall retire from office knowledge, experience and credentials.
On request, but so that if there are fewer than three meetings can be arranged with major Directors who are subject to retirement by The Non-executive Directors continue to shareholders.
Members of senior rotation under the articles one shall retire.
contribute their considerable collective management are invited to attend Board experience and wide-ranging skills to the meetings from time to time to present Board and provide a valuable independent on specific areas of the Groups business.
perspective: where necessary constructively challenging proposals, policy and practices of executive management.
In addition, they help formulate the Groups strategy.
76 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT CONT.
The Board confirms that up until its Whenever required, the Executive Directors RELATIONSHIP WITH termination in 2017: and the Chairman communicate with our SHAREHOLDERS joint brokers Goodbody and UBS to confirm Primary responsibility for effective The Company complied with the shareholder sentiment and to consult on communication with shareholders lies independence provisions included governance issues.
with the Chairman, but all the Companys in the Relationship Agreement: Directors are available to meet with So far as the Company is aware, the During 2017, 49 regulatory announcements shareholders throughout the year.
Alan independence provisions included in the were released informing the market of Jackson, Mor Weizer, Andrew Smith Relationship Agreement had been complied acquisitions, corporate actions, important and John Jackson met with a number of with by Brickington and its associates: and customer contracts, financial results, the shareholders to discuss the Companys So far as the Company is aware, the results of Annual General Meetings, the business and remuneration strategies procurement obligations included in results of General Meetings and Board throughout the year.
The Executive Directors the Relationship Agreement, had been changes.
Copies of these announcements, prepare a general presentation for analysts complied with by Brickington and together with other IR information and and institutional shareholders following its associates.
documents, are available on the Group the interim and full-year announcements.
Details of these presentations together with Separately, Mr Sagi entered into an the Groups financial statements and other agreement with the Company in 2012 SUMMARY announcements can be found on the investor pursuant to which he will, as and when In presenting this report, and having relations section of the Companys website.
requested to do so by the Board, provide monitored, reviewed or approved all Further presentations are also prepared advisory services to the Company for a shareholder communications in 2017 and following significant acquisitions and nominal fee of 1 per annum until either since the end of the financial year, the Board whenever the Board considers it beneficial Mr Sagi ceases to be interested whether is confident that it has presented a balanced to shareholders to do so.
Regular meetings legally or beneficially in any ordinary shares and understandable assessment of the with shareholders and potential shareholders or either party terminates the agreement Companys position and prospects.
are also held by the Head of Investor following its fifth anniversary, whichever is Relations, and in conjunction with either the earlier.
During the year, the Company the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Alan Jackson has sought advisory services on occasion in Chairman Financial Officer.
The Company held an relation to certain significant strategic matters.
This agreement to provide advisory services 22 February 2018 remains in place.
The Company endeavours to answer all queries raised by shareholders promptly.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Companys AGM, at which the Brickington Trading Limited Brickington Chairman will present the key highlights is a wholly owned subsidiary of a trust, the of the Groups performance.
The Board will ultimate beneficiary of which is Teddy Sagi, be available at the AGM to answer questions one of the Groups founders.
2016, the Company and Brickington entered into a variation to the relationship agreement INVESTOR RELATIONS the Relationship Agreement, whereby the AND COMMUNICATIONS rights afforded to Playtech in the Relationship Agreement will remain in place for so long The Company has well-established Investor as Brickingtons holding together with its Relations IR processes, which support a structured programme of communications associates remains at least 15% of the issued share capital.
with existing and potential investors and analysts.
Executive Directors and During 2017, Brickington reduced its members of the IR team participated in shareholding in the Company to 6.3% by a number of investor events, attending industry conferences and regularly meet the sale of 13.0 million shares in March 2017 and a further sale of 36.5 million shares or are in contact with existing and potential in June 2017.
Accordingly, following the institutional investors from around the world, completion of the second sale in June 2017, ensuring that Group performance and the Relationship Agreement was terminated strategy is effectively communicated, within regulatory constraints.
Other representatives in accordance with its terms.
of the Board and senior management meet with investors from time to time.
The Head of IR provides regular reports to the Board on related matters, issues of concern to investors, and analysts views and opinions.
77 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT COMPOSITION RESPONSIBILITIES AUDIT COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES The Audit Committee comprises four The Audit Committees primary function is In 2017, the Audit Committee met formally independent Non-executive Directors and to assist the Board in fulfilling its financial four times.
is chaired by Andrew Thomas, who is a oversight responsibilities.
The Board qualified Chartered Accountant and member is required by the Code to establish Matters that were considered by the of the Institute of Taxation.
Therefore Andrew formal and transparent arrangements for Committee during the year included: has recent relevant financial experience, in considering how it should apply required compliance with the Code provision C3.1, and financial reporting standards and internal Adoption of an updated risk register was appointed to chair the Committee on his control principles and also for maintaining for the Group: appointment to the Board in June 2012.
The appropriate relationships with the Companys Effectiveness of the Groups system of other members of the Audit Committee are external auditors, BDO.
The Committees internal controls and risk management: Paul Hewitt, John Jackson and Claire Milne, terms of reference can be viewed on the Updates on people risk, and all Non-executive Directors.
The Committee Companys website www.
cybersecurity risks: is authorised to obtain independent advice if Review of internal audit plan: considered necessary.
In particular, the Code calls for the description Results of internal audit reviews, of the work of the Audit Committee to include management action plans to resolve any The Chief Financial Officer attended the significant issues considered in relation to issues arising and the tracking all meetings of the Audit Committee by the financial statements and how they were of their resolution: invitation, and the Vice President of Finance addressed, how the Committee assessed Post acquisition reviews: and was invited to attend the meetings of the the effectiveness of the external audit Review of Committee terms of reference.
Committee that considered the audited process, the approach of the Committee to accounts and the interim financial statements, appointing the auditors and how objectivity Its work also included reviewing the final as was the external auditor, BDO LLP BDO.
and independence are safeguarded relative and interim financial statements and matters The members of the Committee were to non-audit services.
raised by management and BDO.
After also able to meet the auditors without any discussions with both management and the Executive Directors being present in order to The primary responsibilities delegated to, external auditor, including the consideration receive feedback from them on matters such and discharged by, the Committee included: of acquisition accounting relating to business as the quality of interaction with management.
combinations, and related contingent The Chairman of the Committee also met Monitoring and challenging the consideration and impairments, made in with BDO separately on several occasions to effectiveness of internal control and the current and prior years, the Committee discuss matters involving the audit process.
associated functions: determined that the key risks of misstatement Approving and amending Group of the Groups financial statements, related to During the year, the Chairman of the accounting policies: the following areas which are described in Audit Committee met, individually and in Reviewing and ensuring the integrity of the relevant accounting policies and detailed private, with members of the management interim and annual financial statements, in the Notes to the financial statements on team in order to understand more fully in particular the actions and judgements pages 115 to 156. the context and challenges of Playtechs of management in relation thereto before business operations and thereby ensure the submission to the Board: REVENUE RECOGNITION Committees time was used most effectively.
Monitoring the implementation of the The Audit Committee reviewed The activities of the Committee members Companys Code of Business Ethics the judgements made in respect of during the last year have enabled it to gain Code of Ethics and compliance with revenue recognition, in particular to a good understanding of the culture of the their provisions: assess the recognition of revenue from organisation, the risks and challenges faced Reviewing the Companys arrangements arrangements with customers and partners and the adequacy and timeliness of the for its employees to raise concerns, where the Group is to be remunerated other action being taken to address them.
anonymously or in confidence and than by way of a simple revenue share without fear of retaliation, about possible arrangement, and undertook a review wrongdoing in financial reporting or other of key contracts.
Following this review, matters arising under the Code of Ethics: the Committee concluded that the timing Reviewing promptly all reports on the of revenue recognition continues to be in Company from the internal auditors line with IFRS requirements.
BDO performed and reviewing and assessing the annual detailed audit procedures on revenue internal audit plan: recognition and reported their findings Monitoring the external auditors to the Committee, which was satisfied independence and objectivity, including as a result of the review process that the the effectiveness of the audit services: approach taken by the Group in the Monitoring and approving the scope and financial statements was appropriate.
costs of audit: and Ensuring audit independence and pre-approving any significant non-audit services to be provided by the auditor.
78 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONT.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS LEGAL, REGULATORY RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND TAXATION The Audit Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee examined the practices judgements made in connection with and procedures adopted by the Group Given the developing nature of the gambling the accounting treatment for business to ensure that related party transactions sector in many countries across the world, combinations during the year, together are conducted on arms length terms.
The and evolving regulation in the financial with the assessment of related liabilities in Committee considered the processes trading sector, there is a risk that potential connection with deferred and contingent followed in relation to such transactions that material legal or regulatory matters are not consideration, and any impairment of the were entered into during 2017 and concluded disclosed or provided for in the financial underlying investments of previous years that the process had worked effectively statements and therefore the Committee acquisitions.
The Committee reviewed the and that the related party transactions considered with the Groups compliance purchase price allocations prepared by with entities that are related by virtue of a and legal departments whether there were professional advisers, together with the common significant shareholder had been any known instances of material breaches underlying judgements and forecasts used properly conducted on an arms length basis in regulatory and licence compliance that to determine the fair value of intangible and appropriately disclosed in the financial needed to be disclosed or other claims assets, put and call options, and contingent statements.
On 27 June 2017, Brickington that required provisions to be made in consideration, and satisfied itself that the Trading Limited Brickington decreased the financial statements.
In particular, the approach to the accounting treatment its holding to 6.3% and from this date Committee considered forthcoming changes taken by the Group was appropriate and Brickington no longer meets the definition of in the regulatory environment in a number of in accordance with IFRS requirements a related party.
BDO undertook a review of jurisdictions in which the Groups licensees and accounting practice.
In particular, the this area as part of its audit work.
operate, together with the implementation Committee reviewed and considered Board of revised financial services regulations.
The papers prepared to support assessments of Committee considered the control systems FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the fair value of contingent consideration, and adopted to identify potential regulatory The Groups financial statements are any impairment considerations, in respect issues and the compliance control systems reviewed by the Audit Committee in advance of the acquisitions of TradeTech Markets operating in the Group.
Discussions were of their consideration by the Board.
The Limited, Consolidated Financial Holdings A S, held with the Head of Regulatory and Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the and ACM Group Limited.
Following this review, the auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with Committee were satisfied that adequate diligence and professionalism.
GOODWILL AND provisions and disclosures were being made for any potential contingent liabilities.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS Having undertaken the processes described above, the Committee is satisfied that the During the year, the Audit Committee also The Audit Committee reviewed and financial statements appropriately address considered the judgements made in relation approved the overall tax management and the critical judgements and key estimates to the valuation methodology adopted by strategy of the Group during the year in light both in respect to the amounts reported and management to support the carrying value of external and internal advice sought by the disclosures.
of goodwill and other intangible assets management and reviewed how the Group to determine whether there was a risk of considers tax as part of its overall business Based on the above, the Committee consider material misstatement in the carrying value planning.
Consideration was given to transfer that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken of these assets and whether an impairment pricing studies carried out on behalf of the as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable should be recognised.
The Committee Group in the period, and assessed, in respect and provides the information necessary considered the assumptions, estimates and of earlier studies, whether there had been for shareholders to assess the Groups judgements made by management to support any change in the basis of operations in the performance, business model and strategy.
the models that underpin the valuation relevant territories.
Furthermore, given that of intangible assets in the balance sheet.
the tax rules and practices governing the Business plans and cash-flow forecasts e-commerce environment in which the Group prepared by management supporting the operates continue to evolve, based on the future performance expectations used aforementioned external and internal advice in the calculations were reviewed.
The received, the Audit Committee considered Committee received a report on the outcome developments and pending changes in of the impairment reviews performed by domestic and international tax laws and management, together with a specific board was satisfied that adequate tax provisions memorandum in connection with the cash and disclosures were being made for any generating units in the Financials Division.
The impairment reviews were also an area of focus for the external auditor, who reported their findings to the Committee.
The Committee satisfied itself that no material impairments were required to the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets.
79 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE INTERNAL CONTROL AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE In recognition of the increasing levels of The Audit Committee, on behalf of the complexity in relation to internal controls and Board, undertakes a formal assessment a desired commitment to have a dedicated of the auditors independence each year, in-house function, we strengthened our which includes: Internal Audit Team during 2016.
The historical Internal Audit relationship between A review of non-audit related services  LLP PwC and provided by BDO and related fees: Playtech continues and is therefore a coA discussion with the auditor of a written sourced arrangement, with PwC continuing report detailing all relationships with the to provide support to the Internal Audit Team Group and any other parties which could given their experience of the Group and the affect independence or the perception specialist services they offer.
of independence: A review of the auditors own procedures During the year, the Internal Audit Team for ensuring independence of the audit performed a number of reviews over firm and partners and staff involved in the both individual entities and central functions audit, including the periodic rotation of the across the Group.
The results of these audits audit partner: were reported to the Audit Committee on Obtaining written confirmation from the a regular basis, with recommendations auditors that they are independent: and made by Internal Audit and corresponding A review of fees paid to the auditors in management actions being reviewed and respect of audit and non-audit services.
In addition to regular feedback of audit results, the During the year the auditors undertook Internal Audit Team monitor completion certain specific pieces of non-audit work of management actions and provide including work in relation to tax matters updates of these to the Audit Committee and the evaluation of potential acquisition on a quarterly basis.
BDO were selected to undertake these tasks due to their familiarity with the An Internal Audit Plan for 2018 was gambling industry.
In order to maintain developed by the Internal Audit Team BDOs independence and objectivity, BDO and agreed with the Audit Committee undertook its standard independence at the November 2017 Audit Committee procedures in relation to those engagements.
Internal Audit will carry out audits Further details of the non-audit fees in accordance with this plan using a risk are included in Note 6 to the financial based approach and continue to maintain statements on page 128. effective lines of communication with the Audit Committee and key management.
The Audit Committee will continue to assess The Internal Audit Team will also be utilised the effectiveness and independence of to provide assurance over corporate the external auditors.
In doing so, the Audit governance matters and for ad hoc Committee will consider a formal tender projects, where necessary.
process in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
The Audit Committee will The Board confirms that any necessary continue to comply with the Competition action will be taken to remedy any significant Commission Order relating to the statutory failings or weaknesses identified from any audit market for FTSE 350 companies, which Internal Audit reviews.
The system of internal came into effect from 1 October 2014.
The controls and audit is designed to ensure Audit Committee expects a formal tender local legal and regulatory compliance and process to begin in the latter half of 2018. manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It Andrew Thomas can therefore only provide reasonable and Chairman of Audit Committee not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
22 February 2018 80 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE STATEMENT BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration is delivered via fixed remuneration and simple and transparent incentive-based plans.
John Jackson Non Executive Director Annual General Meeting in May 2017.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER PHILOSOPHY The resolution to consider the Remuneration On behalf of the Board, I welcome Our Remuneration Policy, which is set out Policy was approved with 83.89% of votes the opportunity to present the Remuneration in more detail in this report, is designed cast being in favour.
Committees report on Directors to reward the contributions of senior remuneration for the year to 31 December management as well as incentivise them to The Committee wishes to ensure that 2017.
This report, describes how the maintain and enhance Playtechs position as the policy: Board has applied the principles of the software and services provider of choice the UK Corporate Governance Code to the gambling sector and deliver in line with Is aligned to the delivery of the Groups to Directors remuneration.
business strategy: Is appropriate in terms of quantum Although Playtech is an Isle of Man Remuneration is delivered via fixed taking into account the experience incorporated entity and, as such, is not remuneration and simple and transparent of the executives and market data required to comply with the UK regulations incentive-based plans enabling the Executive for organisations of a similar size on Directors remuneration, we recognise Directors to be rewarded for delivering strong and complexity: the importance of shareholder transparency.
financial performance and sustainable returns Is sufficiently flexible to cope with changes Accordingly, we can confirm that the to shareholders.
In fast moving sectors such to the Group over the life of the policy: and Company adheres to the UK regulations and as ours we need to apply the policy flexibly in Will strengthen the alignment between the report below is divided into: i this Annual order to deliver the right level of overall pay executives and shareholders Statement: ii the Remuneration Policy Report to Directors.
containing the Groups Remuneration Policy, and therefore, will be in the best interests of and iii the Annual Report on Remuneration shareholders to ensure future growth of the or ARR that reports on the implementation Group.
of the Companys stated Remuneration Policy for the year to 31 December 2017.
The ARR and this Statement will be the subject of an advisory shareholder resolution As the Company, so far as practicable, takes at the forthcoming AGM.
account of the UK legislation applicable to a premium listed main market company, the Remuneration Policy was put to a vote at a general meeting held immediately after the 81 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE The Remuneration Committee considered PERFORMANCE OUTCOME IMPLEMENTATION OF the position of awards to Executive Directors FOR 2017 REMUNERATION POLICY pursuant to the Groups Long-Term Incentive FOR 2018 2017 was another year of strong Plan 2012 and made grants to them in operational and financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee believes the June 2017.
Further details of the grants Progress has been driven through strong current Policy reinforces the Companys are set out in the ARR.
The LTIP awards organic growth, successful acquisitions strategy to create a business with significant granted in 2015 reached the end of their and strategic agreements.
scale and a full product and service three-year performance period on 31 capability, underpinned by a pre-eminent December 2017.
The 70% of the award based In November 2017, we issued a trading technology platform.
We believe that the on EPS vested in full as the stretching targets update and noted the impact of certain policy and incentive framework we have in were met, The 30% of the award based on Asian markets and Sun Bingo performance place can support the Companys strategy in TSR just failed to achieve the necessary on the Groups performance for the full year.
the current economic environment and help performance threshold and so lapsed.
We noted our intention to continue with to retain and incentivise our management our strategy of focusing on both organic team in order to assist in driving strong As stated in our Remuneration Policy, salaries growth and inorganic revenue growth in returns for our shareholders.
Details of how for the executive directors are normally regulated and to-be-regulated markets.
we intend to implement the Remuneration reviewed in June and salary increases were Our M&A pipeline remains very strong and Policy for 2018 are set out on page 90. awarded to both the CEO and CFO in June the Company is in active discussions with 2017.
Further details are set out in the ARR.
a range of Gaming businesses consistent The Remuneration Committee encourages As regards the salary increase for the CEO, with executing this strategy and with the dialogue with the Companys shareholders the Committee took into account a number expectation that the relative contribution and would welcome any comments or of key factors, including his unparalleled from Asia to the Group will consistently questions from investors ahead of the contribution to the Group over an extended reduce over time.
The Committee and I hope we period.
The Committee was also cognisant can count on your support at the 2018 AGM of the competitive landscape in the gaming This focus on our strategy resulted in for the application of a Remuneration Policy industry and the CEOs proven ability to achieving strong results across our key which supports the business strategy grow the business in a challenging market financial performance measures including and will reward the long-term success environment.
The Committee felt that the growth, on a reported basis, in revenue of of the business.
time was right to recognize his enormous 14%, Adjusted EBITDA 7%, Adjusted Net Profit contribution and continuing dedication to 14% and diluted EPS increased by 14%.
Taking these and other factors On behalf of the Remuneration Committee into account, it was decided to increase Given the strong financial and operational the CEOs salary from GBP600,000 to results, the Remuneration Committee 22 February 2018 GBP1,000,000 with effect from 1 June 2017. considered that the Executive Directors had performed exceptionally well against both the The Committee is satisfied that the total challenging financial targets and the other remuneration of the Executive Directors strategic objectives given to them at the start is reasonable and not excessive in the of 2017, including successful negotiations context of performance delivered and is in with new and existing customers, expanding line with the total remuneration delivered in the business in regulated and soon-to-be comparable businesses in the Gaming sector.
regulated markets, strengthening the Groups regulatory functions in light of increased During 2017 the Committee sought regulation in the UK and elsewhere and our shareholder approval for a special onenew acquisitions during the year including off share award to the CEO.
Although we Eyecon Group and ACM Group together with believe that the award was appropriate in a new agreement with OPAP.
Accordingly, the context of the specific circumstances, in recognition of this strong performance, we recognise that a majority of shareholders the Committee has, consistent with our did not support the proposal.
We considered Remuneration Policy, awarded a bonus of the feedback received from shareholders 186% of actual salary earned during the year and, after further consideration, we decided to the CEO and 139% of actual salary earned not to return to shareholders with a revised during the year to the CFO.
The Committee proposal in 2017. is very comfortable that this level of bonus reflects the delivery of superior financial performance together with the strong personal performance and commitment of the Executive Directors during 2017.
Further details of the bonuses are set out in the ARR.
82 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT At the time of publication of last years report, The Committee believes that the individual The Committee believes that its the Committee was still in consultation contributions made by Executive Directors Remuneration Policy creates a coherent and with shareholders on a proposed revised and senior management are fundamental to appropriate framework for remunerating Remuneration Policy.
Shareholders were the successful performance of the Company.
Executive Directors and other senior asked to formally approve the revised Policy The Committee, after discussion with the executives of the Company and draws at a General Meeting held immediately after Executive Directors and its advisers, has a clearer link between performance and the 2017 AGM.
The resolution to consider our therefore adopted a Remuneration Policy reward.
The details of this policy are clearly revised Remuneration Policy was approved with the following objectives: set out in the following pages.
with 83.89% of votes cast being in favour.
Seek to pay executives competitively, The Committee considers that the targets set The Remuneration Committee reviews recognising that they have highly for the different components of performance the Companys remuneration philosophy marketable skills to companies already in related remuneration are both appropriate and structure each year to ensure that the and those considering entry to the online and sufficiently demanding in the context of remuneration framework remains effective gambling industry, but acknowledge local the business environment and the challenges in supporting the Companys strategic market levels, and where appropriate, with which the Group is faced as well as objectives, is in line with best practice and practices: complying with the provisions of the UK fairly rewards individuals for the contribution Incentivise and reward behaviours that Corporate Governance Code.
that they make to the business, having will contribute to superior Company regard to the international nature, size and performance: complexity of the Groups operations and the Enable the Company to attract and retain need to attract and motivate employees of international executives at the required the highest calibre.
calibre, particularly in potential new markets: Remuneration packages are designed to Be simple and understandable: reward the Executive Directors and members Provide good lock-in of key employees of the senior management team fairly for through deferred elements: and their contributions, whilst remaining within Avoid reward for failure.
the range of benefits offered by similar companies in the sector.
83 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The following table gives an overview of the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors: Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To attract, retain and Normally reviewed annually Other than when an N A motivate high calibre by the Remuneration executive changes roles individuals for the role and Committee, typically or responsibilities or when duties required effective in June there are changes to the size and complexity of the To provide market Takes account of the business, annual increases competitive salary relative to external market and other will not exceed the general the external market relevant factors including level of increases for the internal relativities and Groups employees, taking To reflect appropriate individual performance into account the country skills, development and where the executive experience over time In reviewing salary ordinarily works levels, the Remuneration Committee may take into If a particularly large account the effect of any adjustment is required, exceptional exchange rate this may be spread over a fluctuations in the previous period of time year Executive Directors decide the currency of payment once every three years which can be in Pound sterling, US dollars or Euros with the exchange rate being fixed at that time.
Bonus Clear and direct Paid in cash and shares 200% of salary for the CEO Based on a mixture of incentive linked to annual and 150% of salary for other financial performance performance targets Executive Directors and performance against strategic objectives Incentivise annual delivery 25% of any payment is of financial measures and normally deferred into Normally no less than personal performance shares for two years which 70% of the bonus will be is subject to recovery dependent on financial Corporate measures provisions performance selected consistent with and complement the budget and Bonus is paid on a sliding strategic plan scale of 0% for threshold increasing to 100% for maximum performance 84 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONT.
Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Long Term Aligned to key strategic Grant of performance Maximum opportunity of Performance measured over Incentive Plan objective of delivering shares, restricted shares or 250% of salary with normal three years LTIP strong returns to options grants of 200% and 150% shareholders and earnings of salary in performance Performance targets aligned performance Awards may be subject to shares for the CEO and CFO with the Groups strategy of recovery and withholding respectively delivering strong returns to provisions for a period of shareholders and earnings three years post vesting in performance certain circumstances 25% of the awards vest for threshold performance Pension Provide retirement benefits Provision of cash allowance 20% of salary N A Other benefits To help attract and retain Benefits may include private N A N A high calibre individuals medical, permanent health insurance, life insurance, rental and accommodation expenses on relocation and other benefits such as long service awards.
Other additional benefits may be offered from time to time that the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate based on the Executive Directors circumstances Non pensionable Share ownership The Company has a policy Executive Directors are N A N A guidelines of encouraging Directors to expected to accumulate build a shareholding in the a shareholding in the Company Companys shares to the value of 200% of their base salary Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of the net of tax out-turn from the vesting of awards under deferred bonus plan and the LTIP until a shareholding with a minimum value has been achieved 85 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Non-executive To provide a competitive fee Fees are set in conjunction Other than when an N A Directors for the performance of NED with the duties undertaken individual changes roles duties, sufficient to attract or where benchmarking high calibre individuals to Additional fees may be paid indicates fees require the role on a pro-rata basis if there realignment, annual is a material increase in time increases will not exceed commitment and the Board the general level of wishes to recognise this increases for the Groups additional workload employees Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon which are determined to be a taxable benefit can be reimbursed The Chairman is entitled to be provided with a fully expensed Company car Normal policy will be for the new Director In the case of an internal promotion, EXPLANATION OF CHOSEN to participate in the remuneration structure any commitments entered into prior to PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND detailed above, including the maximum the promotion shall continue to apply.
Any TARGET SETTING incentive levels of 400% and 300% of salary variable pay elements shall be entitled to pay Performance measures have been for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief out according to its original terms on grant.
selected to reflect the key performance Financial Officer respectively.
Depending indicators which are critical to the realisation on the timing of the appointment, the For the appointment of a new Chairman or of our business strategy and delivery of Remuneration Committee may decide to Non-executive Director, the fee arrangement shareholder returns.
set different annual bonus performance would be set in accordance with the conditions for the first performance year of approved Remuneration Policy in force The performance targets are reviewed each appointment from those stated in the policy at that time.
year to ensure that they are sufficiently above.
The Committee may also provide challenging.
When setting these targets the relocation expenses arrangements, legal fees Committee will take into account a number and costs.
of different reference points including, for financial targets, the Companys business The variable pay elements that may be plan and consensus analyst forecasts of the offered will be subject to the maximum limits Companys performance.
Full vesting will only stated in the policy table.
The Remuneration occur for what the Remuneration Committee Committee may consider it necessary and considers to be stretching performance.
in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to offer additional cash and POLICY ON RECRUITMENT OR or make a grant of shares including use PROMOTION OF EXECUTIVE of awards made under section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules in order to compensate the DIRECTORS individual for remuneration that would be Base salary levels will be set to reflect the forfeited from the current employer.
To the experience of the individual, appropriate extent practicable such awards would be market data and internal relativities.
The structured to mirror the value, form and Remuneration Committee may feel it is structure of the forfeited awards or to provide appropriate to appoint a new Director alignment with existing shareholders.
on a below market salary with a view to making above market and workforce annual increases over a number of years to reach the desired salary positioning subject to individual and Company performance.
86 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT CONT.
The LTIP rules provide that other than in On his appointment as Chairman of the Board SERVICE CONTRACTS certain good leaver circumstances awards being announced, Alan Jackson entered AND EXIT PAYMENTS lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an into a new letter of appointment effective EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS individual is a good leaver the Committees from 9 October 2013 when Roger Withers policy is for the award to vest on the normal announced his decision to retire as Chairman The service agreements of the Executive Directors are with PTVB Management vesting date or cessation of employment in of the Board in August 2013.
Limited, a wholly owned Isle of Man the event of death following the application of performance targets and a pro-rata The table on page 87 is a summary of the key incorporated subsidiary of the Company.
The service agreement of the Chief Executive reduction to take account of the proportion terms of the letters of appointment for the of the vesting period that has elapsed.
Officer was amended effective from 1 January 2013.
His service agreement The Committee has discretion to partly or is for an indefinite term and provides for completely dis-apply pro-rating or to permit In accordance with provision B.
3.2 of the UK awards to vest on cessation of employment.
Corporate Governance Code the letters of formal notice of 12 months to be served to terminate the agreement, either by the The Committee acknowledges that Executive appointment of the Non-executive Directors Directors leave for a variety of reasons that are available for inspection at the Companys Company or the Director.
Andrew Smith was appointed as an Executive Director and do not necessarily fall within the prescribed registered office and will be available before Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017. categories in the plan rules.
It therefore and after the forthcoming AGM.
retains discretion to deem an individual His service agreement is for an indefinite term and provides for formal notice of to be a good leaver in accordance with CONSIDERATION OF the plan rules and in making that decision six months to be served to terminate the EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS agreement, either by the Company or the will take into account the performance of ELSEWHERE Director.
Set out in the table below are the the individual in office and their reason The Remuneration Committee when setting for leaving.
other key terms of the Executive Directors the policy for Executive Directors takes into terms and conditions of employment.
consideration the pay and employment NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS conditions through the Company as a whole.
A bonus is not ordinarily payable unless The Non-executive Directors each have the individual is employed and not under specific letters of appointment, rather than In determining salary increases for Executive notice on the payment date.
Their remuneration is Directors, the Committee considers the Remuneration Committee may exercise its determined by the Board within limits set general level of salary increase across the discretion to award a bonus payment for the by the articles of association and is set Company.
Typically salary increases will notice period served not on garden leave.
taking into account market data as obtained be aligned with those received elsewhere from independent Non-executive Director in the Company unless the Remuneration fee surveys and their responsibilities.
Committee considers that specific Non-executive Directors are appointed for circumstances require a different level of an initial term of three years and, under salary increase for Executive Directors.
normal circumstances would be expected to serve for additional three-year terms, The Company extends its annual bonus plan up to a maximum of nine years, subject to and share awards to senior management satisfactory performance and re-election at and other key members of the workforce the Annual General Meeting as required.
as the Remuneration Committee feels that it is important to incentivise and retain these employees in order for the Company to continue its development.
Provision Detail Remuneration Salary, bonus, LTIP, benefits and pension entitlements in line with the above Directors Remuneration Policy Table Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control.
Notice period 12 months notice on either side for the CEO and six months notice for the CFO.
Termination payment The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary plus benefits for the period of notice served subject to mitigation and phased payments where appropriate.
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months thereafter.
