AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Performance, Service Contracts, Compensation and Loss of Office The Directors remuneration is not subject to any performance related fee.
No Director has a service contract.
No Director was interested in contracts with the Company during the period or subsequently.
The terms of appointment provide that a Director may be removed without notice.
Compensation will not be due upon leaving office.
No Director is entitled to any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover is maintained by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
The Remuneration Policy stated above was approved Taxation: How was the issue addressed?
The performance and effectiveness of the auditors further information on deferred tax asset disclosures This Remuneration Report comprises two parts: Fees are annually reviewed against comparable by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
There have been in relation to the above points was considered and the strategic report.
The Company provided vehicles and if considered appropriate, increased no changes to the Policy since then.
It is the Boards through a formal evaluation template completed this information to the satisfaction of the FRC.
In Remuneration Policy, which is subject to a accordingly.
The current fee levels are as follows: intention that the Policy be put to a shareholders Accounting for taxation is undertaken in accordance by the Committee and the Investment Manager.
addition the Company received a Most Improved binding shareholder vote every three years.
vote every three years and an ordinary resolution in with the accounting policy disclosed in note 1 g Award from EPRA for its enhanced EPRA reporting this regard will be proposed at the AGM in 2019. to the accounts.
Based on the tax computations An annual report on the implementation of The Audit Committee considers that it received all in the 2016 Annual Report.
31 December 31 December remuneration, which provides information on submitted to HMRC which showed that the Group necessary information from the Companys service 2017 2016 Implementation Report how the policy has been applied during the year had over 30 million of tax losses, the Committee providers as well as from the external auditor in Recommendation to the Board noted that there was potential for a deferred tax asset and which will be subject to an advisory vote on order for it to compile the necessary disclosures.
the level of remuneration paid during the year as to be recognised.
Detailed forecasts prepared by the Aggregate Fees The Committee noted the full co-operation of Chairman 55,000 50,000 Investment Manager indicated that, following the set out in the Implementation Report.
Following its review of the Annual Report and all parties in producing the Annual Report and Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Association refinancing of the internal loan notes in 2016, the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017, no difficulties or disagreements were observed.
currently limits the aggregate fees payable to Group would generate rental income profits and hence the Audit Committee has advised the Board Chairman of Following the completion of the audit, the Audit the Board of Directors to a total of 300,000 per 44,500 40,000 Remuneration Policy the losses referred to above would be utilised resulting Audit Committee that it considers that the Annual Report and Committee and Board followed a systematic approach annum.
No change to this limit is proposed for the in the requirement to provide for a net deferred tax Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and to evaluate the auditor and the effectiveness of the forthcoming year.
In addition understandable, and provides the information This part of the Remuneration Report provides audit process and found this to be satisfactory.
Chairman of 39,250 to this, the Committee recognised that some parts of necessary for shareholders and other users to assess details of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Risk Committee Directors Remuneration Rates the Group had utilised previously built up tax losses the Companys position, performance, business Directors of the Company.
This policy takes into The Audit Committee conducted an audit tender and hence would have to provide for tax on its rental model and strategy.
consideration the principles of the UK Corporate Chairman of process during 2015 and recommended to the profits for the year.
A provision of 481,000 has been Management 39,250 Following a review of the Board of Directors Governance Code and the AICs recommendations Board that Deloitte LLP be appointed as auditor Engagement Committee made in the financial statements being an estimate The Audit Committee is able to give this advice on remuneration which took into account the nature of regarding the application of those principles to for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016. of the tax payable by the Group on its net rental profits the basis that it has carefully scrutinised the Annual their duties, responsibilities and the value of their investment companies.
As the Company has no This appointment was approved by shareholders at Chairman of Property during the year partially offset by an over provision Report and Accounts document, which is prepared time spent as well as a review of other comparable employees and the Board is comprised wholly 39,250 the 2016 AGM.
Prior to the appointment of Deloitte Valuation Committee for corporation tax of 117,000 in the previous year by the Investment Manager and subsequently vehicles that are similar in size, Directors fees for of non-executive Directors and given the size LLP, Ernst & Young LLP acted as auditor for the relating to Brixton Radlett Property Limited.
subject to external audit, specifically focusing on the forthcoming financial year will be as follows: and nature of the Company, the Board has not Group from 2006 to 2015.
Details of the amounts the significant issues detailed in this Report.
In its established a separate Remuneration Committee.
Director 37,500 35,000 paid to Deloitte LLP during the year for audit fees Review of Auditor consideration of the document, the members of the Consideration of Directors fees and remuneration is set out in note 4 to the accounts.
The Company Audit Committee put themselves in the position policy is undertaken by the Nominations Committee.
has complied the provisions of The Statutory Audit 2018 2017 of a shareholder and considered carefully whether Services for Large Companies Market Investigation The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the the comments made are consistent with their The Directors are non-executive and their fees are Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes Appointment Audit Committee, which also considers the terms view of the overall performance of the Company set within the limits of the Companys Articles of and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. under which the external auditor is appointed to during the period under consideration.
Specifically, Chairman 60,000 55,000 Association which limit the aggregate fees payable perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and The Company only intends to appoint consideration has been given to the Financial and to the Board of Directors per annum.
The level of cap In relation to non-audit fees, these amounted in independence of the auditor is safeguarded by non-executive Directors.
Property Highlights section to ensure that the may be increased by shareholder resolution from aggregate to 3,950 2016: 0 for the year ended Chairman of obtaining assurances from the auditor that adequate points raised in this have been selected so as to 48,750 44,500 time to time.
Subject to this overall limit, the Boards 31 December 2017 relating to advice on financial Audit Committee All the Directors are non-executive appointed policies and procedures exist within its firm to give a fair picture of the Companys position and policy is that the remuneration of non-executive instruments and correspondence with the FRC.
under the terms of Letters of Appointment.
ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the that the performance data in the document has not Directors should reflect the nature of their duties, Where any non-audit fee is expected to exceed Company by reason of family, finance, employment, Chairman of been selected so as to give a misleadingly optimistic Directors must retire and be subject to election responsibilities and the value of their time spent and 43,000 39,250 25,000, the Company operates a policy under investment and business relationships other than in Risk Committee view of the Company.
The Audit Committee has at the first AGM after their appointment, and be fair and comparable to that of other comparable which specific prior approval must be given by the the normal course of the business and enforcing a also critically reviewed the Investment Managers annually thereafter.
vehicles that are similar in size, have a similar capital Committee.
Notwithstanding the provision of such Chairman of policy concerning the provision of non-audit services report to ensure that the comments made in this are structure and have a similar investment objective.
non-audit services, the Audit Committee considers Management 43,000 39,250 by the auditor which governs the types of work which New appointments to the Board will be placed on consistent with their knowledge of the Company Deloitte LLP to be independent, given the safeguards Engagement Committee are excluded.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope the fee applicable to all Directors at the time of and with the figures in the accounts.
As with any put in place by Deloitte LLP to ensure independence.
and results of the audit including the following areas: appointment currently 41,000.
Company, there are some elements in the accounts Chair of Property 43,000 39,250 that are inevitably more complex than others and Valuation Committee No incentive or introductory fees will be paid to quality of audit work including ability to resolve Other Matters the Audit Committee has been at pains to have encourage a Directorship.
issues in a timely manner: these expressed in clear language so as to make Director 41,000 37,500 The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension them as understandable as possible.
working relationship with the Committee and The Companys accounts were selected for review benefits, share options, long-term incentive Investment Manager: by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in schemes or other benefits.
The FRC noted their review was limited in scope suitably qualified personnel involved in the Chairman of the Audit Committee The Company indemnifies its Directors for all as they do not benefit from detailed knowledge of audit: and 26 April 2018 costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities the Companys business or an understanding of the cost effectiveness and the independence and which may be incurred in the discharge of duties.
The FRC asked for some objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
48 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
