GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests and their Remuneration STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee continued to ensure that decisions made during the year reflected ourprinciples, Company performance andexternal considerations.
Zvika Zivlin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Pay outcomes for 2017 Overall, in light of the annual and DEAR SHAREHOLDER, long-term performance delivered, the 888 continued to demonstrate I am pleased to present our Directors impressive growth of its strong Committee is satisfied that there has Remuneration Report to shareholders.
underlying business during 2017, been a robust link between performance despite the various challenges it faced and reward.
As a company incorporated in Gibraltar, which are detailed in the Strategic 888 Holdings plc is not bound by UK law Remuneration Policy Report on page 08, with its share price or regulation in the area of Directors continuing to grow, alongside major No changes are proposed to the remuneration to the same extent that it investments in improved protection Remuneration Policy adopted by the applies to UK incorporated companies.
Company at its 2017 Annual General However, by virtue of 888s Premium Meeting, a summary of which is Listing on the London Stock Exchange reproduced in the following pages The annual bonus was focused on the and reflecting the Committees approach achievement of stretching like-for-like for reference.
to good governance, we have adopted in 1 Adjusted EBITDA growth targets.
Likefull the disclosure requirements of a UK for-like Adjusted EBITDA growth in 2017 The second section of this report is the incorporated company, and shareholders was 21.1%, resulting in bonuses to the Annual Report on Remuneration which will be given the opportunity to approve provides detailed disclosure on how the Directors of 150% of salary, of which the our Annual Report on Remuneration, excess portion exceeding 100% of salary Remuneration Policy will be implemented which is subject to an advisory vote at is to be deferred into shares under the for 2018 and how Directors have been the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP, paid in 2017.
The disclosures provide reflecting the strong operational and shareholders with the information Remuneration and strategy necessary to form a judgement as to the financial performance of the Group Our goal is to reward executives fairly, during the year.
For full details of link between Company performance and by providing an appropriate balance Executive Directors bonuses and the how the Executive Directors were paid.
between fixed and variable remuneration, associated performance delivered see This Annual Statement together with the linked to the achievement of suitably page 69.
Annual Report on Remuneration will be challenging performance measures.
As subject to an advisory vote and I hope highlighted at the front of this Annual In relation to long-term incentives, the that you will be able to support the Report, our strategy focuses on the awards granted in 2015 under the All resolution at the forthcoming AGM.
following pillars: Employee Share Plan vested based on a performance measure comprising The Committee is committed to Development of core B2C brands: maintaining an open and constructive 50% of an absolute EPS growth target Driving margin growth through and 50% on relative TSR.
EPS growth dialogue with our shareholders on operational efficiencies: performance was measured over the remuneration matters and I welcome Expansion in regulated markets: three-year period to 31 December 2017: any feedback you may have.
EPS growth performance over this period B2B partner of choice: and was 82% against a target range of 15.76% Continue to protect our customers, 5% p. a. compounded to 72.80% 20% employees, community and act p. a. compounded.
was measured over three years to 31 December 2017: TSR performance was Our incentive plans are aligned to Zvika Zivlin 138%, putting it above the stretch target.
profitability of the 888 business and Chairman of the Remuneration This will result in 100% of the 2015 award shareholder value, which we believe Committee vesting in 2018. derive from implementation of 20 March 2018 this strategy.
1 Like-for-like Adjusted EBITDA growth is calculated as the increase in Adjusted EBITDA.
To enable a like-for-like comparison with the prior year, adjustments are made to take into account the Groups withdrawal from any markets during the year to provide an assessment of the underlying performance of the core business and to exclude any new gaming taxes introduced during the year that were not in force at the start of the year to be comparable with the basis on which the growth targets were originally set.
Like-for-like Adjusted EBITDA growth for the annual bonus is calculated on a constant currency basis.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 62
