PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 08 Governance Statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Introduction the scenario charts have been updated to reflect current On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 2017 salary levels: and Remuneration Report.
we have made other minor wording changes to ensure the Policy retains appropriate flexibility to enable the Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the to respond to changed circumstances throughout the framework and policy for remuneration of the Executive three year Policy period and to aid understanding.
It is also responsible for the operation of senior management incentive schemes throughout the Group.
In line with our commitment to ongoing dialogue with Shareholders, the Committee has consulted with leading The 2017 Report is divided into two sections: Shareholders in respect of the Policy and taken account of the Directors Remuneration Policy pages 10 to 17 which their comments.
contains details of our Remuneration Policy.
This updates thePolicy which was approved by Shareholders in 2014: and Remuneration earned in 2016 17 This year has again seen tough trading conditions in most the Annual Report on Remuneration pages 18 to 26 which ofthe Groups markets.
However, despite the challenging sets out how we implemented our Remuneration Policy for environment and, specifically, significant year-on-year currency the year ended 31 May 2017 and how we intend to devaluation in the Groups largest market Nigeria, the Group implement our Policy during the year ending 31 May 2018. has delivered a solid result with profit before tax slightly ahead Both sections will be presented for Shareholder approval of the previous year.
atour Annual General Meeting on 27 September 2017: the Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding Shareholder A strategy of ongoing brand innovation and renovation vote: and enabled the Group to maintain or grow our market shares: the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an while, in the key market of Nigeria, the business focus on advisory Shareholder vote.
ensuring that products are sold in the right sizes and at the right price points delivered a creditable result against the Remuneration Policy backdrop of a weaker currency and poor liquidity.
The Group Our Remuneration Policy is designed to encourage the also performed strongly in respect of the operational efficiency generation of long-term sustainable Shareholder value by targets established at the beginning of the year.
As a result, the aligning the interests of our executives with those of our Board was able to declare a further increase in the full year Shareholders.
The creation of Shareholder value is supported dividend, marking 44 consecutive years over which the through an annual bonus which is heavily weighted towards dividend has been increased year-on-year.
achieving profitable growth and improved operational performance and a long-term incentive which only rewards for As well as focusing the Executive Directors on delivery of delivering long-term earnings growth.
The long-term focus of financial performance, the Committee set a number of our policy is strengthened through the requirement to defer short-term strategic objectives for the year which were part of the annual bonus into shares until our share ownership important to the delivery of our longer-term business strategy.
guidelines are met and the requirement to retain a portion The successful on time completion of the three year project ofvested long-term incentive awards above 100% of salary to implement a standard SAP solution across the Group worth of shares at grant beyond the three year vesting period.
marks an important step towards completion of the recent transformation agenda and positions the Group well to deliver The current Remuneration Policy requires renewal at the 2017 growth efficiently into the future.
The year has also seen the Annual General Meeting.
During the year the Remuneration continued progression of the Personal Care growth agenda Committee has therefore considered its effectiveness and with expansion into margin accretive, scale category concluded that the Policy has aligned performance and reward segments and the development of a globally consistent brand over the long term.
As a result, no substantive changes to the marketing approach.
A focus on the Groups Corporate Social current Remuneration Policy are being proposed at this years Responsibility CSR strategy has embedded Good4Business Annual General Meeting i. e. incentive quantum and structures throughout the business and resulted in significant reductions will remain the same.
in water consumption, waste and carbon emissions.
The amendments we are making to the Remuneration Policy Taking into account performance during the year, key aspects with effect from the 2017 Annual General Meeting include: of remuneration earned during the year were: the clawback provisions introduced in 2015 to the Annual Salary reviews as disclosed in last years report, the salary Bonus Scheme and to Performance Share Plan awards will of each of the Executive Directors was increased by 2% on now form part of the Policy: 1September 2016.
This increase was within the range of references to Performance Share Plan awards granted prior salary increases provided to other employees elsewhere to September 2014 have been removed as there are no in the PZ Cussons Group.
longer unvested awards outstanding under the 2008 plan: PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 09 Bonus pay-out in last years Annual Report on the most closely aligned metric to our long-term objective Remuneration we reported that we would continue to focus ofdelivering profitable growth and sustaining a progressive executives on bonus targets primarily relating to three key dividend policy.
However, we are proposing to refine the financial indicators: profit before tax and exceptional items, range of EPS targets for the 2017 18 awards to better reflect net working capital and operating contribution margin.
The the current macroeconomic environment which includes balance of the bonus would be subject to delivery against key currency liquidity constraints and pressure on consumer strategic and CSR stretch objectives.
Financial targets were income in our core Nigerian business as well as challenging set around the budget approved for the year in May 2016, trading conditions in most of our markets.
In light of this against a background of pressures on consumer income as context, 25% of 2017 18 awards will vest where adjusted EPS well as significant levels of currency volatility and lack of grows by 3% per annum rising to 100% vesting if adjusted liquidity in Nigeria which existed at the time, but with an EPS grows by 10% per annum or more, in each case extra stretch element built into part of the profit before tax compounded over a three year performance period.
This and exceptional item element.
range reflects a reduction from the range operated last year i. e. annual EPS growth of 4% to 12% but the Committee Notwithstanding the challenging macroeconomic considers the range to be similarly challenging when environment detailed above, we performed strongly against account is taken of current market conditions and market our key annual financial performance metrics.
With profit expectations of the Companys future performance.
before tax and exceptional items slightly ahead of the TheCommittee has a history of setting demanding targets previous year at 103.5m, we improved our net working noting only a single vesting event in the past seven years capital percentage to 21.3% and, through a relentless focus and intends to continue to set challenging targets each year.
on brand innovation and renovation, achieved an operating contribution margin of 17.5%.
In addition, we delivered Salary increases the Committee has decided, with effect against our strategic and CSR targets which resulted in from 1 September 2017, the base salary of Mr Kanellis will bonuses paying out at maximum levels for the Executive increase by 2.5% and the base salary of Mr Davis and Directors.
The Committee was comfortable that bonus MrLeigh will increase by 2.0%.
These increases are based awards at this level were appropriate given the solid overall on individual performance and are within the range ofsalary performance delivered by the Group during the year across increases being awarded to the Groups wider UK-based the range of the Groups KPIs, achievements against our employee population.
strategic objectives and, more particularly, the way in which the executives managed the very significant challenges Appointment of new advisors to the Committee which the business faced in Nigeria.
The proposed appointment of Deloitte LLP as Group external auditor with effect from 1 June 2017 has necessitated their Further details of the targets set for 2016 17 are disclosed resignation as advisor to the Committee to satisfy the rules on retrospectively in this years Annual Report on Remuneration auditor independence.
Deloitte had performed this role since on pages 19 to 20.
2009 and the Committee thanks them for their advice and Long-term incentives as reported last year, Earnings Per support over that period.
Share EPS performance over the three year period ended 31May 2016 did not meet the required threshold level and During the year, the Committee ran a tender process to identify the awards made to Executive Directors in 2013 under the a new advisor.
A number of short-listed candidates were Performance Share Plan wholly lapsed in July 2016.
Details interviewed, culminating in the appointment with effect are included in the tables within the Annual Report from1 June 2017 of Korn Ferry Hay.
The awards made to Executive Directors in 2014 are also I hope you will find the Report on Directors Remuneration subject to EPS performance over the three year period transparent and informative and that this statement has been ended 31 May 2017.
These performance conditions were helpful in setting out both how we have implemented our notachieved and, accordingly, these awards will also shortly Remuneration Policy in 2016 17 and our approach for the wholly lapse.
We are committed to engaging with Shareholders in respect of remuneration issues and I therefore Our approach in 2017 18 welcome your views on the matters set out within the report.
As detailed above, the Remuneration Policy is to be renewed on broadly similar terms to the Policy which has operated since the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
However, in terms of the Helen Owers application of Policy for 2017 18, I would like to draw to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee attention of Shareholders the following matters: Long-term incentives the Committee has reviewed the performance targets which will apply to the Performance Share Plan awards to be made to Executive Directors in the 2017 18 financial year.
We have concluded that EPS remains
