PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 10 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy This part of the report complies with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
It has also been prepared inlinewith the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This part of the report sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy which will be subject to a binding vote at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and take effect from the date of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The policy is determined by the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
Changes to the Remuneration Policy The key changes between this Policy and the Policy which was approved by Shareholders at our 2014 Annual General Meeting are: the clawback provisions introduced in 2015 to the Annual Bonus Scheme and Performance Share Plan awards will now form part of the Policy: references to Performance Share Plan awards granted prior to September 2014 have been removed as there are no longer unvested awards outstanding under the 2008 plan: the scenario charts have been updated to reflect the new Policy: and other minor wording changes to ensure the Policy retains appropriate flexibility to enable the Committee to respond to changed circumstances through the three year Policy period and to aid understanding.
Remuneration framework The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are summarised below: Purpose and Element linktostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Fixed remuneration Base salary To provide an Base salaries are normally reviewed To avoid setting the None, although overall performance appropriate level annually taking into account: expectations of of the individual isconsidered by the offixed cash Executive Directors and Committee when setting and the scope of the role and the markets income to recruit other employees, there reviewing salaries.
in which PZ Cussons operates: and retain talent is no overall maximum the performance and experience through the for salary increases ofthe individual: provision of underthis policy.
pay levels in other organisations of competitively asimilar size and complexity: and Salary increases are positioned base reviewed in the context pay increases elsewhere in theGroup.
of salary increases across the wider Group.
Any increase in excess of those elsewhere in the Group would be considered very carefully by the Committee.
The circumstances in which higher increases may be awarded may include but are not limited to: an increase in the scope and or responsibility of arole: an increase upon promotion to Executive Director: where a salary has fallen significantly below market positioning: or the transition over time ofanew Executive Director recruited on abelow market salary toa more competitive market positioning as the Director gains experience in the role.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 11 Purpose and Element linktostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits Recruitment and Benefits which may be provided include The maximum Not applicable.
retention of car benefits, life assurance, health opportunity will be senior executive insurance for the Executive Director and based on the cost of talent through family, permanent health cover and providing the benefits.
the provision of personal tax advice.
Executive Directors This will be set at a level a competitively may also participate in any all-employee which the Committee positioned and share or benefits plans on the same considers appropriate to cost effective basis as any other employees.
Where provide a sufficient level benefits package.
relevant, additional benefits may be of benefit based on offered if considered appropriate and individual circumstances.
Benefits may reasonable by theCommittee, such as alsobe provided assistance with the costs of relocation.
to assist in the effective performance ofan Executive Directors duties.
Provision for Designed to Participation in a defined contribution A company pension Not applicable.
retirement enable an pension plan or provision of a cash contribution of 20% of Executive allowance inlieuof a pension contribution.
base salary in respect of Director to each financial year into The defined benefit pension schemes generate an the scheme on behalf of have been closed to further accrual income in the Executive Director, since 2008 and any salary linkage retirement and to subject to a minimum ceased on 31 May 2013.
In respect of provide an overall employee contribution their past service, Executive Directors remuneration of 5% of base salary, remain members of PZ Cussons package which or cash allowance Directors Retirement Benefits Plan, iscompetitive of up to 20% of salary.
PZCussonsPlc Pension Fund and Life inthe market.
Assurance Scheme for Staff Employed Outside the United Kingdom and or the Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Schemes and are eligible to receive retirement benefits in accordance with the terms ofthe schemes.
Variable remuneration Annual Designed Measures and targets are set annually The maximum annual The performance measures and targets Bonus tomotivate atthe beginning of the relevant financial bonus opportunity are set by the Committee each year.
Scheme and Executive year and pay-out levels are determined that may be earned The majority of annual bonus is based Deferred Directors to focus by the Committee after the year end for any year is 150% onchallenging financial targets which Annual on annual goals based on performance against those of base salary.
are set in line with the Groups KPIs Bonuses and milestones targets.
forexample profit before taxation, which are Awards of up to 100% of base salary are networking capital and operating consistent with payable in cash.
the Groups longer-term If an annual bonus of more than 100% of In addition, a smaller element of the strategic aims.
base salary is earned for a year, then any annual bonus may be subject to excess over 100% of base salary will be achievement against strategic and or deferred and awarded in PZCussons CSR objectives.
The shares will normally vest For each financial objective set, 0% of after three years.
the relevant part of the bonus becomes A dividend equivalent may be payable payable at the threshold performance ondeferred shares which vest.
The level rising on a graduated scale to the Committee may, in exceptional maximum performance level.
The circumstances only, amend the bonus structure and nature of the strategic pay-out should this not, in the view of objectives vary, such that it is not the Committee, reflect overall practical to specify any pre-set businessperformance or percentage of bonus which becomes .
Recovery and withholding provisions Maximum annual bonus will only be may apply to deferred shares as set paidfor achieving significant financial outbelow in the notes to this table.
out-performance above the budget setfor the year.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 12 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Element linktostrategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Designed to Annual awards of rights over shares Award opportunities in Awards to Executive Directors are Share Plan motivate the calculated as a percentage of base respect of any financial subject to challenging financial targets PSP Executive salary.
Vesting is subject to the year are limited to rights for example EPS targets, measured Directors to attainment of predetermined over shares with a market over the performance period.
focus on the performance targets measured over value determined by Vesting does not take place until the generation a performance period of at least three the Committee at grant threshold performance requirement ofsustained years.
The performance period normally of a maximum of is met as applicable to each relevant Shareholder starts at the beginning of the financial 150% of base salary.
metric at which point 25% vests.
value over the year inwhich the date of grant falls.
Vesting increases on a graduated basis longer term Dividends accrue on shares subject to from threshold performance to the and align their PSP awards and are paid on vesting in stretching maximum target.
interests with respect of those shares which vest.
those of the Award levels and performance Groups conditions are reviewed before Shareholders.
each award cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
Subject to attainment of the performance targets, awards will normally vest, in respect of shares with a market value at grant of up to100% of base salary, following the end of the performance period.
Any shares which vest in excess of this value will normally be subject to an additional holding period and will be released in equal amounts four and five years after the date of grant.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply to awards granted under the PSP as set out below in the notes to this table.
Other aspects Shareholding Alignment of Requirement over time to build up Not applicable.
guidelines the Executive interests in the Companys shares worth Directors 150% of salary and to reinvest half of interests with any after-tax bonus or gain arising from those of the the share incentive plans until this Groups guideline is met.
Annual Bonus Scheme including deferred share bonus awards and PSP The Committee will operate the annual bonus including the deferred share element and PSP according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these arrangements.
These include the following plan limits and performance targets are restricted to the descriptions detailed in the preceding policy table : who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of an award and or payment: share award structures i. e. awards may be granted in the form of conditional share awards, nil-cost options or other arrangements having the same economic effect : whether employees will receive a dividend equivalent payment which may assume the reinvestment of these dividends in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis on shares which vest: the determination of vesting including the conclusion of an applicable holding period : dealing with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring: determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends : the annual review of performance conditions, including metrics and weightings, for the annual bonus and PSP.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 13 The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus and to adjust targets for the PSP if events occur e. g. material divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Recovery and withholding provisions The Committee may, in its discretion, apply clawback to annual bonus and PSP awards in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results, an erroneous determination of a performance metric applicable to an award, or an Executive Directors misconduct relating to the conduct or governance of any Group company or business unit or in such other circumstances the Committee considers to have a serious adverse effect on any Group member or business unit.
Clawback can beapplied where the event occurs between the date of grant and the second anniversary of the date the award vests is paid.
Theclawback may be effected through a withholding of variable pay by reducing the size of, or imposing further conditions on, any outstanding or future awards, or by requiring the individual to return the value of the cash or shares delivered to recover the amount overpaid.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The performance metrics which are used for annual bonus and long-term incentive plans are a subset of the Groups KPIs.
Under the annual bonus plan in the 2017 18 financial year, profit before tax and exceptional items will be used as the primary performance metric, supplemented by net working capital and operating contribution margin.
These metrics are to be used in tandem to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against the core objective of achieving profitable growth whilst effectively managing our working capital and achieving targeted rates of return on our sales.
The financial objectives are complemented by incentivising delivery against targeted strategic and or CSR improvements set for the year.
Other metrics based on the Groups KPIs may be used in the future where it is considered that they provide clear alignment with the strategy of the Company.
In terms of long-term performance targets, PSP awards will vest subject to challenging financial targets e. g. EPS growth which are informed by the long-term levels of growth targeted by the Group which support our progressive dividend policy.
Financial targets are set, where possible, based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external market expectations for the Group.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of the challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
Further details of the annual bonus metrics to be used for the current financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets for awards to be granted under the PSP in the current financial year are consistent with the Policy set out above and are also set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Non-executive Director Fees To reflect the time Fees are normally reviewed Fees are based on the level of fees Not applicable.
commitment in preparing for every two years and amended paid to Non-executive Directors and attending meetings, the to reflect market positioning and serving on boards of similar sized duties and responsibilities of any change in responsibilities or UK-listed companies and the time the role and the contribution time commitment.
commitment and contribution expected from the Nonexpected for the role.
The Committee recommends the executive Directors.
remuneration of the Chair to the Non-executive Directors receive Board.
Fees paid to Non-executive a basic fee and an additional fee Directors are determined and for further duties for example approved by the Board as a whole.
Chair of a committee or Senior Independent Director The Non-executive Directors do responsibilities.
not participate in the annual bonus plan or any of the Groups share The maximum level of fees payable incentive plans.
The Company to the Non-executive Directors will covers the costs of attending not exceed the limit set out in the meetings and Non-executive Companys Articles of Association.
Directors may be provided with benefits associated with their role.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 14 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Legacy awards The Committee may make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed: before the 2014 Annual General Meeting the date the Companys first Shareholder approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : before the Policy came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Shareholder approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, the term payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Committees discretion includes discretion to determine, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, the extent to which awards under that plan may vest in the event of a change of control or in a good leaver circumstance.
Prior to the adoption by the Company of the PSP in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZCussonsPlc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since the introduction of the Performance Share Plan, it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme and all awards granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have been exercised.
The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation or implementation, taking into account the interests of Shareholders but without the need to seek Shareholder approval.
Setting Executive Director remuneration When considering how to position the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers market datafrom UK-listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee also receives and takes into account information from the Global Human Resources Director on pay and employment conditions applying to other Group employees, consistent with the Groups general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according tothe nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the generation of sustained Shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
Balance of fixed versus variable remuneration The Committee believes that an appropriate proportion of the executive remuneration package should be variable and performance related in order to encourage and reward superior corporate and individual performance.
The following charts illustrate executive remuneration in specific performance scenarios.
For the purposes of simplicity, no share price growth ordividend payments have been included in the values included for share-based awards.
Minimum performance Target performance Maximum performance Fixed elements Base salary as at 31 May 2017 ofremuneration Value of benefits as included in the 2017 single total figure of remuneration on page 18 Pension contributions at 20% of base salary Annual bonus 0% 60% of maximum opportunity 100% of maximum opportunity based on implementation G A Kanellis 60% of 150% of salary G A Kanellis 150% of salary of Policy in2017 18 C G Davis 60% of 125% of salary C G Davis 125% of salary B H Leigh 60% of 125% of salary B H Leigh 125% of salary Long-term incentive plans 0% 25% of award 100% of award based on implementation G A Kanellis 25% of 150% of salary G A Kanellis 150% of salary of Policy in 2017 18 C G Davis 25% of 125% of salary C G Davis 125% of salary B H Leigh 25% of 125% of salary B H Leigh 125% of salary PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 15 Performance scenario 000 2,461 2,500 2,000 35.5% 1,459 1,500 1,361 1,339 15% 839 33.3% 33.3% 1,000 825 36% 719 35.5% 14% 14% 453 32% 33.3% 446 32% 33.3% 5,00 100% 49% 29% 100% 54% 33.3% 100% 54% 33.3% 0 Below threshold Target Maximum Below threshold Target Maximum Below threshold Target Maximum G A Kanellis C G Davis B H Leigh Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentive plans Recruitment remuneration arrangements When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will set the Executive Directors ongoing remuneration in a manner consistent with the Policy detailed in the table above.
To facilitate the hiring of candidates of the appropriate calibre, the Committee may make an award to buy-out variable remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the form of award, the value forfeit, any performance conditions and the time over which the award would have vested.
The intention of any buy-out would be to compensate in a like-for-like manner as far as is practicable.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new Executive Directors excluding buy-out arrangements in respect of their recruitment will be in line with the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded under the annual bonusplan and PSP, i. e. a total face value opportunity of 300% of salary.
The Committee will ensure that such awards are linked tothe achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not met.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered if the recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
Executive Director contracts and loss of office payments Executive Directors have one year rolling service contracts and no Executive Director has a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for predetermined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benefits in kind.
Upon the termination of an Executive Directors employment, the Committees approach to determining any payment for loss of office will normally be guided by the following principles: the Committee shall seek to apply the principle of mitigation where possible, as well as seeking to find an outcome which is in the best interests of the Company and Shareholders as a whole, taking into account the specific circumstances: relevant contractual obligations, as set out above, shall be observed or taken into account: the Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith to satisfy an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of any such obligation or to settle or compromise any claim or costs arising in connection with the employment of an Executive Director or its termination or to make a modest provision in respect of legal costs and or outplacement fees: and the treatment of outstanding variable remuneration shall be as determined by the relevant plan rules, as set out on the next page: PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 16 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Performance Share Plan Cessation of directorship employment within three years of date of grant: Death The award will normally vest as soon as practicable following death.
The Committee will have sole discretion as to the extent to which the award will vest, taking into account, if the Committee considers it appropriate, time pro-rating and the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied.
Injury, ill health, disability, sale of the Awards not subject to holding period.
participants employing company or business The award will normally vest on the original vesting date, taking into account the extent to which out of the Group or any other reason if the the performance conditions have been met.
Alternatively, the Committee has the discretion to Committee so decides allow the award to vest at the time of cessation of directorship employment by the Group, taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met up to that date.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Committee will reduce the award to reflect the period which has elapsed at the time of cessation.
Any other reason The award will lapse upon cessation of directorship employment.
Cessation of directorship employment after three years of date of grant i. e. in respect of shares held for a compulsory holding period : Death The award will vest as soon as practicable following death, taking into account the performance conditions, if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Lawful dismissal without notice by theCompany The award will lapse upon cessation of directorship employment.
Any other reason The award will generally be released at the end of the holding period.
Alternatively, the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to be released in part, or in full, at the time of, or following, cessation of directorship employment.
The extent to which awards are released in these circumstances will be determined by the Committee taking into account the performance conditions.
Annual Bonus Scheme cash element The extent to which any annual bonus is paid in respect of the year of departure will be determined by the Committee in such proportion of cash and shares as it considers appropriate taking into account the performance metrics and whether it is appropriate to time pro-rate the award for the time served during the year.
Annual Bonus Scheme deferred share element Death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, The award will vest immediately upon cessation of directorship employment.
Alternatively, the sale of the participants employing company the Committee has the discretion to determine that awards should not vest, until the end or business out of the Group or any other reason of the deferral period.
if the Committee sodecides Any other reason The award will lapse upon cessation of directorship employment.
Executive Share Option Scheme Death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy, The award will be exercisable within the period of 12 months after cessation of directorship retirement, the sale of the participants employment.
employing company or business out the Group All options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now been exercised.
or any other reason if the Committee sodecides Nofuture awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme are anticipated.
Retirement benefits will be received by any Executive Director who is a member of any of the Groups pension plans in accordance with the rules of such plan.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 17 Change in control The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change of control or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest early taking into account: i the extent to which the Committee considers that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro-rating of the awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Deferred bonus awards will normally vest in full on a takeover or winding up of the Company.
In the event of a special dividend, demerger orsimilar event the Committee may determine that awards vest on the same basis.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation, awards may be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company.
Similarly, in the event ofa merger of equals, the Committee may invite participants to voluntarily exchange their awards that would otherwise vest forequivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company.
The Committee may in the circumstances referred to above determine to what extent any bonus should be paid in respect of thefinancial year in which the relevant event takes place, taking into account the extent to which the Committee determines therelevant performance metrics have been or would have been met.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company When reviewing and setting Executive Director remuneration, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all employees of the Group.
The Group-wide pay review budget is one of the key factors when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors.
Although the Group has not carried out a formal employee consultation regarding Board remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
Communication with Shareholders The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with Shareholders and seeks the views of significant Shareholders when anymajor changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee takes into account the views of significant Shareholders when formulating and implementing the Policy.
Terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable ona similar basis subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The present letters of appointment for MsEdozien, Mr Maiden, Mr Nicolson, Mrs Owers and Mrs Silver expire on 31 December 2017, 31 October 2019, 30 April 2019, 31December 2017 and 31 March 2020 respectively and subject, in each case, to annual re-election as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Ms Edozien will retire from the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and will not stand for re-election.
The letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors and service contracts of Executive Directors are available for inspection atthe Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 18 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration Information contained within the Annual Report on Remuneration has not been subject to audit unless stated.
Single total figure of remuneration audited The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, received by each of the Directors for the year ended 31 May 2017.
2 Taxable benefits comprise life assurance, healthcare insurance and car allowance.
We have also been advised that for Non-executive Directors, certain travel andaccommodation expenses in relation to attending Board meetings should be treated as a taxable benefit.
3 Details of the performance measures and weightings as well as results achieved under the annual bonus arrangements in place in respect of the year are shown on the pages 19 to 20.
4 The awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2014 will wholly lapse, such that the Executive Directors will receive no value.
Details of the performance measures as well as results achieved are shown on pages 21 to 24.
5 With effect from 1 June 2008, the Executive Directors became eligible for membership of the Companys defined contribution pension arrangement.
Messrs Kanellis and Leigh each receive a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary: these amounts are included in the column headed Pension.
MrDavis continues to participate in the defined contribution pension arrangement but as the amount of Company contributions was less than 20% of his salary, the difference between those contributions and 20% of his base salary was paid as a salary supplement.
Both the pension contributions and the salary supplement are included in the column headed Pension.
The Company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benefits for Mr Davis as his benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
6 Mr Harvey retired from the Board on 31 December 2016.
7 Professor Arnold retired from the Board on 31 December 2016.
8 Mr Maiden was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016.
9 Mr Nicolson was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2016.
10 Mrs Silver was appointed Chair on 1 January 2017.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 19 Individual elements of remuneration Base salary Base salaries for individual Executive Directors are reviewed annually, with effect from 1 September, by the Remuneration Committee and are set with reference to the scope of the role and the markets in which PZ Cussons operates, the performance and experience of the individual, pay levels in other organisations of a similar size and complexity and pay increases elsewhere inthe Group.
From 1 September 2017, the base salary of Mr Kanellis will increase by 2.5% and the base salary of Mr Davis and Mr Leigh will increase by 2.0%, this being within the range of salary increases across the Group.
The base salaries for the year ended 31 May 2016 and the year ended 31 May 2015 are also set out below: 01 09 2015 01 09 2016 01 09 2017 Increase Base salary Base salary Base salary % G A Kanellis 569,113 580,500 595,012 2.5 C G Davis 356,100 363,200 370,464 2.0 B H Leigh 350,240 357,200 364,344 2.0 Non-executive Director fees During the year, the annual fees payable to Mrs Silver increased to 250,000 to reflect her appointment on 1 January 2017 as Non-executive Chair.
The annual fees payable to Mr Nicolson increased by 5,000 to 57,500 to reflect his appointment asSeniorIndependent Director from the same date.
No other changes were made during the year to the fees payable to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Director fees are reviewed every other year and, with effect from the biennial review conducted on 1 June 2017, the annual fees payable to Mr Nicolson were increased by a further 2,500 after considering the time commitment associated with the role.
The annual fees payable to each of the other Non-executive Directors remain unchanged.
Annual bonus Bonus for the year ended 31 May 2017 In respect of the year ended 31 May 2017, each of the Executive Directors participated in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme.
Under this scheme, the CEO was eligible to earn a cash bonus of up to 150% of base salary and the CFO and COO were each eligible to earn a cash bonus of up to 125% of base salary.
Any bonus awards earned in excess of 100% of base salary are deferred into Company shares vesting three years after the award is determined, subject to recovery and withholding provisions and continued employment.
For the 2017 financial year, the bonus included challenging financial and strategic targets set to align the Executive Directors with delivering against the Boards approved budget and planning for the year ahead.
As in prior years, and consistent with our KPIs, the performance metrics included profit before tax and exceptional items including separate target and stretch elements and net working capital and operating contribution margin.
A number of strategic objectives were also set, with payment subject to achieving a threshold level of profitability for the year.
To reflect the organisations focus during 2017 on implementing a standard SAP solution on time and in a cost-effective manner and reflecting the need to effectively manage exceptional volatility in the Nigerian economy, there was a higher weighting applied to the strategic objectives in the annual bonus relative to the previous financial year 30% of the total bonus from 20% with financial targets determining the balance at 70% of the total bonus.
The Boards approved budget and the targets set took into account, at the time the budget was approved in May 2016, the pressure on consumer income, particularly in Nigeria, as well as the significant level of currency volatility and lack of liquidity in thekey Nigerian market and the consequent significant on-costs.
In light of this and the overall levels of risk to be managed, the Group profit before tax target of 90m was a challenging target, particularly in a period during which SAP was being deployed in the region.
Throughout the year, management put in place mechanisms to respond rapidly to changes in the market, continually deploying initiatives and tactics to manage and lessen the impact of the volatility.
This included changing pricing and sizing across all product categories.
These proactive and innovative approaches resulted in a better performance against target.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 20 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued The targets set and our performance against them are set out below: Financial targets Proportion of Proportion of Actual total bonus Metric total bonus Targets performance payable Profit before tax and exceptional items 52% Target: 90m Stretch target: 94.5m 103.5m 52% Net working capital percentage 9% Target: 21.5% 21.3% 9% Operating contribution percentage 9% Target: 15.8% 17.5% 9% Strategic targets The 2017 strategic objectives related to streamlining operations in line with the new business operating model, returning the key Nigerian business to a sustainable cost base, completion of the deployment of SAP and attainment of CSR objectives related to, amongst other things, reduction in carbon emissions and water consumption.
These objectives were fully attained as detailed in the table below: Proportion of Proportion of total bonus Metric total bonus Milestones achieved payable Streamlining 9% Integrating business units in Nigeria 9% operations Re-engineered global functions Streamlining the Australia and New Zealand business unit Achieved notable growth in targeted areas e. g. Personal Care and Food & Nutrition Returning Nigerian 7.5% Closing depots and opening astate of the art distribution centre in Abuja 7.5% business to a Delivered targeted business consolidation and reduced headcount against plan sustainable cost base Simplified SKUs reduction ofmore than 50% Effectively managed costs through period of escalating input prices Completion and 9% Delivered SAP within the global transformation plan on time and on budget 9% deployment of SAP CSR 4.5% Embedded updated Good4Business plan 4.5% Exceeded carbon and water reduction targets 3% reduction targets for each with performance being 16% and 9.7% respectively As a result of the above, each of the Executive Directors qualified for his maximum bonus opportunity.
In the case of Mr Kanellis, this resulted in a total bonus payment equivalent to 150% of his annual basic salary whilst Messrs Davis and Leigh each qualified for a total bonus payment equivalent to 125% of his annual basic salary.
The Committee was satisfied that bonus awards of this level were appropriate given the solid overall performance delivered by the Group during the year, achievements against our strategic objectives and, more particularly, the way in which the executives managed the very significant challenges which the business faced in Nigeria.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, that part of each Directors bonus which exceeded in value 100% of annual basic salary will be deferred into Company shares vesting three years after the award was determined.
2018 annual bonus framework Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31May 2018.
The operation of the bonus plan will broadly mirror the approach taken in the 2017 financial year.
No change is to be made to the maximum opportunity.
However, following the successful implementation of SAP within our global transformation plan we will reduce the proportion of the annual bonus subject to strategic objectives from the 30% of total bonus opportunity to 20%.
Taking the weighting on strategic objectives back down to 20% of the total bonus opportunity mirrors the approach we took prior to the 2017 financial year.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 21 The Directors consider that the Groups future targets are matters which are commercially sensitive: they could provide our competitors with insights into our business plans and expectations and should therefore remain confidential to the Company at this time although they will be retrospectively disclosed in the Report on Directors Remuneration for 2018.
However, there has been no change to the level of opportunity available under the Scheme and the principal features of the Scheme are as follows: maximum opportunity remains at 150% of salary for the CEO and 125% of salary for the CFO and COO: any bonus awards earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into Company shares vesting three years after theaward is determined, subject to recovery and withholding provisions as detailed below and continued employment: annual bonuses will again be based on the achievement of stretching profit before tax and exceptional items 62% of the total bonus, net working capital 9% of the total bonus and operating contribution margin performance targets 9% of the total bonus : the bonus award for delivering target financial performance will remain at 60% of the overall maximum opportunity: 20% of maximum opportunity will be available for delivering strategic objectives with bonuses to be earned against four categories relating to key strategic drivers of growth, route to market enhancement, streamlining of operations and Good4Business : and bonuses are payable at the discretion of the Committee and subject to a broad assessment of the Companys overall performance before individual bonus awards are determined.
Awards made under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31 May 2018 will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions which would enable the Committee to recover any value overpaid as a result of i a material misstatement of audited results, ii employee misconduct associated with the governance or conduct of the business or iii an erroneous calculation of a performance condition.
The ability to apply these provisions operates for a period of up to two years for awards to Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Long-term incentive plans Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain senior executives are generally eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan which provides for the grant of conditional rights to receive nil cost shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
The current version of the Plan, the 2014 Performance Share Plan, was approved and adopted at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Awards vesting in respect of the year ended 31 May 2017 The year ended 31 May 2017 represented the final year of the three year performance period for awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2014.
The overall performance during the three years was such that no proportion of the awards madeto the Executive Directors will vest and they will wholly lapse, as below: Resulting level of award % of Level of Performance maximum EPS performance Targets vesting achieved opportunity Threshold 6% 25% 2.1% 0% Maximum 12% 100% Awards granted in the year ended 31 May 2017 audited As disclosed in last years Report on Directors Remuneration, and in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy, as set out on page 12, during the year ended 31 May 2017 awards were made to the Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan over shares with a value equal to 150% of base salary for the CEO and 125% for the COO and CFO, as set out below: Percentage vesting for Performance Number of threshold period end Scheme Basis of award shares Face value performance date G A Kanellis 2014 Performance Share Plan 150% of salary 268,750 870,750 25% 31 May 2019 C G Davis 2014 Performance Share Plan 125% of salary 140,123 453,999 25% 31 May 2019 B H Leigh 2014 Performance Share Plan 125% of salary 137,808 446,498 25% 31 May 2019 These awards are subject to adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2016.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 22 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued No proportion of the awards may vest unless the Groups adjusted EPS grows by at least 4% per annum compounded over the relevant performance period.
25% of the award will vest where adjusted EPS grows by 4% per annum rising on a straight line pro-rata basis to 100% which vests if adjusted EPS grows by 12% per annum or more, in each case compounded over the performance period.
Any awards earned in excess of 100% of salary on grant will vest not at the end of the three year performance period but will bedeferred and vest in equal amounts four years and five years after the date of grant.
Face value has been calculated using the average mid-market closing share price on 26 July 2016 of 324p which was the share priceused to determine the number of shares subject to the award in accordance with the rules of the Performance Share Plan.
Awards to be granted in the year ending 31 May 2018 The Committee intends to make awards under the Performance Share Plan to Executive Directors and other senior executives during the year ending 31 May 2018 on the same basis as the prior year and in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Award levels remain unchanged from awards made in the previous year.
The Committee proposes to continue to make awards subject to the attainment of targets related to growth in adjusted EPS but will refine the range of EPS targets to better reflect the current macroeconomic environment and market consensus.
The minimum threshold compound EPS growth target, at which 25% of awards will vest, will accordingly be compound EPS growth of 3% per annum from 4%, whilst the target for maximum vesting will be compound EPS growth of 10% per annum from 12%.
The Committee considers that the targets remain similarly challenging to the range set last year taking into account current market conditions and consensus and, in particular, the unique challenges we face as a result of managing exceptional volatility in our Nigerian business.
The Committee has a history of setting demanding targets noting only a single vesting event in the past seven years and intends to continue to set similarly challenging targets each year following a review of expectations for future performance before each years award.
The Committee has considered the introduction of an additional performance measure but has concluded that this is not currently appropriate for the Company and that EPS remains the most meaningful measure of long-term performance, providing a valuable line of sight for management and alignment with the interests of Shareholders.
Use of EPS growth targets is also aligned with our long-term objective of delivering profitable growth and sustaining a progressive dividend policy.
The Committee will, however, continue to review its approach to metrics and target setting in respect of awards in future years.
In line with awards made under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, awards made under the Performance Share Plan forthe year ending 31 May 2018 will continue to include recovery and withholding provisions which would enable the Committee to recover excess value on vesting as a result of i a material misstatement of audited results, ii employee misconduct associated with the governance or conduct of the business or iii an erroneous calculation of a performance condition.
The provisions apply for a period of up to two years from vesting of awards made to Executive Directors and other senior executives in the event.
Executive Share Option Scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZCussonsPlc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since the introduction of the Performance Share Plan and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme.
All options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now been exercised.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Committee has established Shareholding Ownership Guidelines which require Executive Directors: to build up and retain holdings of shares and or deferred shares net of tax worth 150% of salary from time to time: and until this share ownership threshold is met, to invest 50% of any after-tax annual bonus into the Companys shares.
They are also required to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net gain after tax arising from the acquisition ofshares pursuant to any of the Companys share incentive plans, again until the share ownership threshold is met.
All Executive Directors have complied with the above guidelines in respect of the year ended 31 May 2017.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 23 Interests in shares audited The interests in the Companys shares of each of the Executive Directors as at 31 May 2017 together with interests held by his connected persons were: Interests in share incentive schemes which Interests in share incentive schemes which Ordinary Shares are not subject to any performance are subject to any performance 1 2 3 held at 31 May 2017 condition as at 31 May 2017 condition as at 31 May 2017 G A Kanellis 709,891 14,463 733,609 C G Davis 317,511 383,194 B H Leigh 145,917 376,865 1 Includes shares held by connected persons.
2 In the case of Mr Kanellis includes 14,463 shares representing that part of the bonus payable to him in respect of the year ended 31 May 2015 which exceeded 100% of his basic salary which was deferred into shares vesting three years after the award was determined.
3 Includes unvested awards under the Performance Share Plan which remain subject to performance including the whole of the awards made in 2014.
There have been no changes in the Executive Directors interests between 31 May 2017 and the date of this Report.
The Non-executive Directors shareholdings are disclosed on page 5 within the Report of the Directors.
Executive Share Option Scheme audited The outstanding awards granted to each Director of the Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now been exercised as follows: Number of Number of options Granted Exercised options Option Share price Exercise Date of awards at allocated vested in Lapsed awards at exercise at date of Earliest date transfer award 1June 2016 in year year in year 31May 2017 price exercise Gain of exercise Expiry date date C G Davis 06-Aug-07 65,769 65,769 1.6725 3.397 113,419 06-Aug-10 06-Aug-17 01-Aug-16 Note: All awards have now been exercised.
Deferred bonus awards audited The outstanding awards granted to each Director of the Company as deferred bonus awards are as follows: Number of Number of Market options Granted Exercised options price at Vesting Date of awards at allocated vested in Lapsed awards at date of transfer award 1June 2016 in year year in year 31May 2017 award date G A Kanellis 22-Jul-15 14,463 14,463 3.51 22-Jul-18 Note: All awards will ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of grant, conditional only on continued employment.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 24 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Pension benefits audited The following Executive Directors were members of the defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the Company.
All of these defined benefit plans were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008 and replaced by defined contribution arrangements and or the provision of cash allowances in lieu of pension.
Benefits built up in the defined benefit plans continued to receive a salary link until 31May 2013.
The pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values below relate solely to the defined benefit arrangements.
G A Kanellis Benefits held within both the PZ Cussons Directors Retirement Benefits Plan and the PZ Cussons Pension Fund and Life Assurance Scheme for Staff Employed Outside the United Kingdom.
The total entitlement across both arrangements was calculated at 31 May 2013 as 1 30th of Final Pensionable Salary at 31 May 2013 for each year of service within the Companys defined benefit pension arrangements ceasing on 31 May 2008.
From 31 May 2013, total benefits revalue on an annual basis in line with the increase in the Consumer Prices Index CPI in the previous year to September.
All benefits are payable from age 62.
In total, the sum of the deferred pensions within these two arrangements at 31 May 2017 was 332,785 per annum.
C G Davis Benefits held within the PZ Cussons Directors Retirement Benefits Plan, supplemented by an unfunded contractual promise payable by the Company.
In total, the sum of the deferred pensions within these two arrangements at 31 May 2017 was 26,547 per annum.
Following closure of the Companys defined benefit plans, each of the Executive Directors became eligible for membership of the Companys defined contribution pension arrangements and or the provision of cash allowances in lieu of pension.
Details of the benefits received by each in this respect are set out at note 5 to the table on page 18.
Loss of office payments audited No payments for loss of office were made during the year.
Limits on shares issued to satisfy share incentive plans The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued Ordinary Shares, treasury shares or Ordinary Shares purchased in the market.
In relation to all of the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any ten year period, issue or grant rights requiring the issue of more than 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital for executive share plans.
In respect of awards made during the year ended 31 May 2017 under the Companys share incentive plans, no new Ordinary Shares were issued.
Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of PZCussonsPlc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the eight year period to 31 May 2017 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen as PZCussonsPlc is a constituent of that index.
PZ Cussons Plc TSR vs the FTSE 250 index TSR Value 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 PZ Cussons Plc Ordinary Shares FTSE 250 index PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 25 Chief Executive Officer remuneration for previous eight years Total Annual bonus LTIP % of remuneration % of maximum maximum opportunity opportunity 2016 17 1,586,330 100.0% 0% 2015 16 1,104,601 47.4% 0% 2014 15 1,463,325 72.85% 32.5% 2013 14 1,052,912 78.0% 0% 2012 13 1,104,089 69.5% 0% 2011 12 599,070 0% 0% 2010 11 1,484,017 18.0% 100.0% 2009 10 1,403,984 67.8% n a Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows PZ Cussons distributions to Shareholders and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 May 2016 and 31 May 2017, and the percentage change: 2017 2016 % m m change Total employee costs 100.5 96.9 3.7% Dividends paid 34.2 33.3 2.7% Profit before tax and exceptional items 103.5 103.0 0.5% Change in CEO remuneration and for employees as a whole over 2017 The table below shows the change in CEO annual remuneration defined as salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, compared to the change in employee annual remuneration for a comparator group for 2016 to 2017.
The PZ Cussons International Limited employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group because it is considered to be the most relevant, due to the UK employment location and the structure of total remuneration staff are able to earn an annual bonus as well as receiving a base salary and benefits.
CEO Average for other 2017 2016 % employees change % change Salary 577,650 564,425 2.3% 1.5% Benefits 22,400 22,490 0.4% 0% Bonus 870,750 404,801 115.1% 148% Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year were being considered: Mrs Owers Chair Ms Edozien Mr Nicolson Mr Maiden with effect from his appointment to the Committee on 1 November 2016 Mrs Silver until her appointment as Non-executive Chair on 1 January 2017 Prof Arnold until his retirement on 31 December 2016 The Committee was advised in relation to Directors remuneration during the year by Deloitte LLP and Korn Ferry Hay.
Deloitte LLP is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed the voluntary Code of Practice for remuneration consultants.
It acted as principal advisor to the Committee until, following the firms proposed appointment as the Groups external auditor with effect from 1 June 2017, it retired as remuneration advisor to comply with audit independence rules.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 26 Governance Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued During the year, Deloitte LLP provided advice on market data and assisted with the Committees review of executive remuneration matters.
The fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of this work were charged on a time and expenses basis and totalled 25,500 for the year.
Deloitte LLP also provided advisory services to the Group during the year relating to tax advice in addition to other consulting services totalling 165,737.
In light of Deloittes retirement and following an independent tender process, the Committee appointed Korn Ferry Hay as new remuneration advisor.
Korn Ferry Hay was appointed because of its expertise and experience across a range of remuneration matters.
Korn Ferry Hay is also a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed the voluntary Code of Practice for remuneration consultants.
Korn Ferry Hay has advised the Committee in relation to market data and evolving market practice and in respect of its review of the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received from both Deloitte LLP and Korn Ferry Hay has been objective and independent.
During the year, the Committee consulted both Mr Harvey and Mrs Silver in their capacity as, at different times, Non-executive Chair on issues where it felt their experience and knowledge could benefit its deliberations and both attended meetings by invitation.
The Committee also consulted Mr Kanellis Chief Executive Officer on proposals relating to the remuneration ofmembers of the Groups senior management team and he too attended meetings by invitation.
The Global Human Resources Director also attended meetings by invitation.
The Committee is supported by Mr Plant Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Invitees are not involved in any decisions or discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Statement of Shareholder voting The Committee is directly accountable to Shareholders and, in this context, is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with Shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
During the year, the Committee actively engaged widely with key Shareholders and Shareholder representative bodies in respect of the approach to executive remuneration, including the performance conditions to be applied to awards under the Performance Share Plan, and their comments were considered when agreeing the proposed approach.
The Remuneration Committee Chair will be available to answer questions from Shareholders regarding remuneration at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The votes cast by proxy at the Annual General Meeting held on 28 September 2016 in respect of resolutions relating to Directors remuneration are shown below.
Advisory vote on the Report on Directors Remuneration: Votes for Votes against Number % Number % Votes cast Votes withheld 330,992,126 97.98% 6,832,415 2.02% 337,824,541 3,959,848 By order of the Board of Directors H Owers Chair of the Remuneration Committee 25 July 2017
