04 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 1 3 A PORTFOLIO POSITIONED FOR 2 THE FUTURE CURRENT PORTFOLIO 1.
Big box warehouses 41% The shape of our portfolio is driven by our 2.
Other 4% strategy to own high quality warehouse Total 100% assets capable of generating attractive, long term returns for our shareholders.
Over the years, we have transformed the portfolio as we have repositioned it to cater for the 1 changing needs of our customers, both now and in the future.
Offices & Other 23% Total 100% The success of our portfolio strategy is in the wrong location or non-industrial assets, dependent on our ability to respond to the including offices and retail.
Our portfolio new trends, challenges and opportunities today reflects the quality, the focus and the facing our customers.
This involves identifying locations we were targeting six years ago.
and owning warehousing in markets where Although acquisitions have played a major supply of space is limited and demand is likely part in creating the portfolio today, over the to remain strong over the long term.
past five years, we have invested 1.1 billion For example, our largest acquisition into development, creating new assets, which during the year was the 50 per cent of the service the needs of our customers who want APP portfolio owned by our joint venture modern, sustainable buildings in markets partner, Aviva.
The APP portfolio is mainly convenient for serving their customers and concentrated around Heathrow Airport, with easy access to their workforce.
situated in Greater Londons protected green We apply our knowledge and expertise belt, restricting the availability of land for in real estate sector and in our markets new development.
The airport accounts for to assess the risks and the returns for approximately two-thirds of UK air freight each development we approve.
In 2017, which is a key source of occupier demand the development projects we completed for warehouses in the immediate vicinity.
represent capital investment of approximately In 2017, air freight volumes through 330 million.
During the year, they generated Heathrow grew by around 10 per cent, a valuation gain of 176 million and have the Skyline development adding further demand pressure to this potential to generate 27 million of headline The buildings in the foreground supply-constrained market.
rent, of which 25 million has been secured.
make up the Skyline development, The strategy we set out in 2011 was These developments, with their high positioned directly adjacent to designed to ensure that all of our assets were sustainability credentials, are designed to Heathrow Airport, ensuring rapid access.
in markets with similar long-term structural generate attractive returns not only today but demand and supply dynamics.
This meant also long into the future.
disposing of assets which were either Pre-let development underway industrial in nature but of poorer quality or for Tiesse in Milan 05 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WE HAVE TRANSFORMED OUR PORTFOLIO SINCE2011.
PHIL REDDING CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER MORE DETAIL ON OUR STRATEGY AND OUR PERFORMANCE CAN BE FOUND ON PAGES 20-26 06 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 OUR SUCCESS AND LONGEVITY IS A TESTAMENT TO OURPEOPLE.
LIZ REILLY GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR Employee Conference and Day of Giving We work hard to bring everyone working at SEGROs different offices together to encourage collaboration and a shared sense of purpose and success, such as at the Companywide Conference and Day of Giving.
07 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A CULTURE LOOKING TO THE FUTURE SEGRO was founded in 1920 when Sir Noel Mobbs led the consortium that purchased what is now the Slough Trading Estate.
It is our responsibility today to create the conditions to secure SEGROs future for the next 100 years and beyond.
A high quality portfolio is important, but we also need talented people who share the same culture OUR VALUES and values to continue our success.
SAY IT Our success and longevity is a testament to wide Day of Giving where all colleagues LIKE IT IS.
Our unique corporate culture are encouraged to give up a day for relevant is a hugely important part of attracting and charitable causes.
In the 2017 Day of Giving, retaining talent both now and in the future.
190 people from across the business took At the heart of this culture are our Purpose part in 16 projects.
and Values examined in more detail on Every SEGRO employee is eligible to page 44.
These were created in 2015 after be rewarded with a bonus that reflects both a year-long programme of engagement their own achievements and their contribution with all our employees.
These provide the to the performance of their team and the framework for how we work and behave and Company: 75 per cent of every employees STAND SIDE BY SIDE.
are an important component of creating a bonus below Board level is based on team place of work where people feel motivated or SEGRO-wide performance, with 25 per and valued.
cent based on achievement of personal SEGRO is dedicated to increasing objectives.
Additionally, every employee diversity in the business through a is given the opportunity to own a stake in combination of actions aimed at raising SEGROs future, through SEGRO share conscious awareness of diversity issues incentive schemes where all colleagues amongst our employees, through our are eligible to receive shares that vest after KEEP ONE EYE ON recruitment and training interventions and our three years.
Every two years we commission an With 11 offices across Europe, we independent company to conduct an encourage and facilitate collaboration employee engagement survey This allows between different countries and operating all colleagues the opportunity to provide teams.
For example, over the past year, two anonymous feedback across all facets of cross-border and cross-function teams have their working life at SEGRO, identifying conducted research into the viability of multiwhat we do well and areas for improvement.
storey warehousing and into the opportunities The results of the 2016 survey, published in IF THE DOOR IS CLOSED... and threats presented to SEGRO and our early 2017, showed a very high engagement customers by technological change.
It is by score of 90 per cent across the whole sharing knowledge, opinion and best practice Company.
The Leadership team are given like this that will help us constantly challenge the results for their teams and the Company the status quo and future proof our business.
and tasked with ensuring that areas for We also encourage employees to improvement are addressed.
participate in training, from courses designed to develop role-specific skills to more generic DOES IT MAKE THE learning, such as studying new languages.
We also support employees who use their MORE DETAIL ON OUR CORPORATE business and personal skills in a voluntary CULTURE CAN BE FOUND ON capacity, and we organise an annual, SEGROPAGES 44-45 08 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 OUR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FUTURE As a listed owner and developer of buildings, our longterm future depends on making sure we have the right assets in the right place but also on being a responsible business.
This is about making sure we operate with all our stakeholders in mind, providing customers with premises within which they can adapt and grow their business, working in partnership with our local communities and ensuring that our buildings use natural resources efficiently.
OUR CUSTOMERS Businesses must respond to change, and technological innovation in the form of e-commerce has driven the change in demand for our warehouses.
Technology also presents other opportunities for our business as it continues to advance in many different areas.
Access to power is increasingly important for our customers, particularly for our datacentre occupiers and companies investing in greater automation in their warehouses.
For example, we have made significant investment in the SEGRO Logistics Park East Midlands Gateway infrastructure, to ensure that customers can be confident of a sufficient power supply to grow their businesses in future.
Another area is the growing demand for, and supply of, electric vehicles, particularly in relation to urban distribution where local governments are focusing increasingly on congestion and air quality.
In response, all our new developments include parking spaces with charging points for electric and hybrid cars.
Our customers also include companies which are at the forefront of technological innovation: Tesla uses its facility in the Netherlands to test-drive its latest vehicles, drawing its power from solar panels on the warehouse roof.
Drxlmaier is carrying out research and development in its facility in Germany to create the battery for the new electric Porsche.
The investment decisions we make today are long term and must be fit for the future and we devote considerable time to investigating these developments to ensure that we respond to them appropriately.
09 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Autonomous vehicles Advances in technology to improve the efficiency and environmental impact of transportation are welcome but we need to ensure our portfolio can cater for the changing needs of our customers as these technologies develop.
OUR COMMUNITIES A key part of our development activity in urban areas is to breathe life back into former industrial areas, enhancing the local environment and bringing new jobs for local communities.
We are mindful that urban industrial land is often ideally suited to residential development, so we need to work closely with partners to retain a sensible balance that caters for the needs of a growing population.
In our Keep London Working report, we highlighted the fact that industrial land is a centre for employment and vital to sustain Londons growth.
A good example of this partnership is in Hayes in West London, where we worked with Barratt London to create a mixed use scheme for the former Nestl factory site Keep London Working which combines 1,300 new homes and SEGRO commissioned the 21,000 sq m of modern warehousing, Keep London Working report to generating an estimated 500 local jobs in encourage planning authorities to recognise the importance of the process.
industrial land to provide jobs for Londons residents.
OUR ENVIRONMENT Sustainability has always been an important WE MUST ENSURE THAT Electric vehicle charging points part of our investment strategy, contributing at Amazon Rome OUR BUILDINGS ARE to decisions about whether to buy, sell or Both we and our customers have develop.
Every development must comply an interest in ensuring that our SUSTAINABLE FOR THE buildings use natural resources with our 2020 sustainability targets, making efficiently and are sustainable for best use of natural resources.
buildings we develop are not only more ANDY GULLIFORD efficient than their predecessors but are also CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER what our customers increasingly demand to ensure that their own operations are sustainable and efficient.
MORE DETAIL ON OUR RESPONSIBLE SEGRO FRAMEWORK CAN BE FOUND ON PAGES 46-51
