Business Review The first phase in AstraZenecas strategy focused on strengthening and accelerating our product pipeline.
In the second phase, our focus has been on driving our Growth Platforms and launching new products.
This effort is driven by a business that is organised to deliver our return to sustainable growth.
In this Business Review, we report As outlined below, our operating model includes our R&D, Commercial and Operations functions, together with our on how the elements of our business therapy areas.
are delivering against our strategic priorities which are to: Since 2007, we have made significant efforts to restructure and reshape our business to control costs and improve long-term competitiveness.
Achieve Scientific Leadership F ull details are provided in the Financial Review from page 66.
Be a Great Place to Work We are working to create a lean and simple organisation, focused on driving distinctive science in our main therapy areas.
Research & Development R&D Therapy areas Our R&D activities are focused on three strategic R&D centres, Our Global Product and Portfolio Gaithersburg, MD, US, Gothenburg, Sweden and Cambridge, Strategy group GPPS leads UK, which is also our global HQ.
our therapy area activities for two of our three main therapy areas CVMD and Respiratory, Phase I and II discovery and early-stage development as well as our portfolio of medicines in Other Disease IMED MedImmune Areas.
GPPS also serves as The Innovative Medicines and MedImmune is responsible the bridge between our R&D Early Development IMED for global biologics R&D.
and Commercial functions and Biotech Unit focuses on works to provide strategic scientific advances in small direction from early-stage molecules, oligonucleotides research to commercialisation.
GPPS works closely with healthcare providers, regulatory authorities and those who pay Phase III late-stage development and life-cycle management for our medicines, seeking to ensure those medicines help to Both IMED and MedImmune are responsible for delivering fulfil unmet medical needs and projects to our Global Medicines Development GMD unit for provide economic as well as late-stage development.
In addition to this Group-wide role, our Oncology Business Unit, formed in April 2017, has Commercial direct responsibility for sales, We group our sales and marketing functions into regions: marketing and medical affairs North America US and Canada : Europe: and International activities in the US and in a China, Hong Kong, Asia Area, Australia & New Zealand, Russia number of European markets, & Eurasia, Middle East & Africa, Latin America and Brazil.
Japan including France, Germany, is categorised separately and is one of our Growth Platforms.
Responsibility for Oncology in other markets remains with the Commercial functions.
Operations Our Operations function plays a key role in development, manufacturing, testing and delivery of our medicines to See Therapy Area Review from page 46. our customers.
Minute pieces of tumour DNA circulating in the bloodstream 22 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 1.
Achieve Scientific Leadership Early science University School of Medicine to advance next We want to push the boundaries of science to generation personalised cancer immunotherapy We are using our distinctive scientific strengthen our early-stage product portfolio.
We also renewed capabilities, as well as investing That means exploring novel biology and using our collaboration with a subsidiary of the in key programmes and focused more diverse drug platforms.
For example, French National Institute of Health and Medical business development, to deliver our partnership with Moderna is exploring Research conducting research into translational the use of modified ribonucleic acid RNA for biology and new disease mechanisms across a life-changing medicines.
cardiac regeneration in patients undergoing range of therapeutic areas.
coronary artery bypass graft surgery Overview AZD8601.
With Ionis Therapeutics, we are Precision medicine and genomics 19 approvals of NMEs or major LCM investigating an antisense oligonucleotide in Precision medicine, our new name for projects in major markets immuno-oncology AZD9150, in combination personalised healthcare, reflects the broad 9 Oncology approvals for Imfinzi, with Imfinzi.
Also in 2017, we formed range of cutting-edge diagnostic technologies Calquence, Faslodex, Lynparza partnerships with APT Therapeutics to access we use, including molecular diagnostics, and Tagrisso their therapeutic protein platform: with Pieris tissue diagnostics, next-generation 6 CVMD approvals for Bydureon, to develop novel inhaled drugs: and with sequencing and point-of-care diagnostics.
Bydureon BCise, Forxiga and Qtern Bicycle Therapeutics, in support of both Building on our historical focus on Oncology, 1 Respiratory approval for Fasenra our Respiratory and New CVMD Growth we now cover all three main therapy areas.
3 Other approvals for Duzallo, Platforms, to develop a new class of Today, 90% of our clinical pipeline follows a Kyntheum Siliq therapeutics based on its proprietary precision medicine approach 10 percentage 18 NME or major LCM regulatory bicyclic peptide product platforms.
We are industry submissions in major markets leading in this field with 19 diagnostic tests 9 Phase III NME investment decisions We also identify collaborations that allow us launched, linked to four of our medicines 14 Phase II starts to out-license our own technology platforms.
Iressa, Lynparza, Tagrisso and Imfinzi and Accelerated reviews included For instance, we continued to expand the one linked to a drug we have just externalised 3 Breakthrough Therapy Designations utilisation of our antibody-drug conjugates Zurampic : joint first for the number of 2 Orphan Drug Designations ADC technology platform through an FDA approvals of precision medicines: 2 Accelerated approvals agreement with GamaMabs Pharma to and the highest number of biomarker-related 6 Priority Review Designations produce an ADC as a potential cancer therapy.
publications in scientific journals since 2014.
10 projects discontinued Working collaboratively and fostering In 2017, we delivered four diagnostic tests.
open innovation These included one diagnostic to detect Scientific leadership and collaboration Our collaborative approach to science was PD-L1 protein expression on both tumour AstraZenecas Purpose is to push the exemplified in 2017 by our partnerships with and immune cells for Imfinzi bladder cancer : boundaries of science to deliver life-changing Imperial College, Crick Institute, and the MRC one blood-based laboratory assay for medicines.
It underpins everything we do.
Laboratory of Molecular Biology to further BRCA genes for Lynparza ovarian cancer : However, as we seek to achieve scientific our understanding of the underlying biology one point of care diagnostic for uric acid in leadership, we know that we cannot do of disease.
Additionally, since the start of blood that can be used for Zurampic gout so alone.
We want the way we work to be our joint blue-skies programme with the MRC and one tumour tissue next-generation inclusive, open and collaborative.
We believe Laboratory of Molecular Biology in 2014, we sequencing diagnostic for Tagrisso NSCLC.
our biotech-style operating model gives us have funded 22 research projects.
We have In Respiratory disease, we are now developing access to the best science, both internal also continued to pioneer new approaches our first point-of-care test for eosinophilic and external, and we are open to exploring to open innovation, enabling our scientists to respiratory disease with ChemBio new and different kinds of collaborations.
share their ideas more freely and collaborate Diagnostics.
In total, we invested over on projects with external scientists.
The $185 million in strategic partnerships One of the measures of our success IMED Open Innovation portal allows external with leading diagnostic companies in 2017, in achieving scientific leadership and researchers to access the full range of open including Ventana Roche Tissue Diagnostics, demonstrating the quality of research innovation programmes.
By the end of 2017, Illumina, Roche Molecular Systems and conducted in our laboratories is the number of our teams had reviewed more than 500 Myriad Genetics.
We have an in-house publications in high-quality and high-impact proposals for new drug projects.
Of these, 32 Centre for Genomics Research which journals.
It is also critical for recruiting and have progressed as far as clinical trials, while analyses genomes and enables us to retaining the best scientists from around the more than 294 are at pre-clinical trial stage.
identify more effectively novel genetic causes world.
Scientists from IMED, MedImmune of diseases and integrate this knowledge and GMD have published 82 manuscripts During 2017, MedImmune continued to across our entire drug discovery and a record number in high-impact peersupport its internal development efforts with development platform.
We are also partnering reviewed journals, each with an impact factor collaborations.
These included a research with experts in genomics to enhance our exceeding 15 Thomson Reuters 5yr IF score collaboration with Michigan Medicine to expertise in this field.
and a score exceeding 1,054 in total.
identify potential new therapies for the This represents a twelve-fold improvement prevention and treatment of diabetes, obesity since our drive to publish in high-impact and related metabolic disorders.
We also journals began in 2010. announced a collaboration with Washington AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 23 Business Review Achieve Scientific Leadership continued can Science help target medicines to those most likely to benefit from them Imfinzi diagnostic test Transformative approaches to drug discovery Accelerating the pipeline Imfinzis diagnostic test in bladder and development GMD is prioritising its investment in specific cancer, which was essential to the Within our early science units, we are exploring programmes in order to accelerate them, approval of the medicine, uses a emerging technologies to accelerate the novel patient selection approach by so that new treatments get to patients more establishing PD-L1 status via immune design and testing of tomorrows medicines.
As a result, we had cell or tumour cell staining.
It not only Since 2013, many of the discoveries and numerous study read-outs in 2017, including provides clinicians with information recommendations made by the IMED Futures key oncology trial outcomes for Tagrisso in that may guide immunotherapy programmes have been integrated into the decisions in 2nd line bladder cancer, 1st line EGFR-mutated NSCLC FLAURA but also enables AstraZeneca and way we operate today.
Machine learning and for Imfinzi in stage 3, locally-advanced diagnostic partner Ventana to drive and artificial intelligence are helping us unresectable NSCLC PACIFIC, and we up testing rates before Imfinzis launch to transform our medicinal chemistry, expect a continued flow of new data in 1st line bladder cancer.
and informatics are converting big data throughout 2018.
Our teams have also been into valuable knowledge.
For example, our quick to turn positive clinical trial data into in-house gene-editing group has identified regulatory submissions.
In 2017, we made novel targets and drug combinations using At the end of the year, we had 11 NME submissions in the US, EU and Japan for both CRISPR screens, and the teams published projects in pivotal studies or under regulatory Imfinzi and Tagrisso for the indications noted papers in 2017 that have advanced these review covering 19 indications, compared above and, in the US, we made a submission technologies.
Critical to improving target with 12 at the end of 2016. and received approval for our first validation is the development of better haematological cancer drug, Calquence, predictive models of disease.
We are Also in 2017, 12 NMEs progressed to their for relapsed refractory mantle cell lymphoma.
collaborating with experts in organ-on-a-chip next phase of development and 10 projects Furthermore, Lynparza was submitted in the design, technology and biology from biotech were discontinued: six for poorer than US, EU and Japan for use by patients with and academia such as TissUse, Nortis and anticipated safety and efficacy results: platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian cancer Emulate and, in 2017, five organ-chips were and four as a result of a strategic shift in regardless of BRCA-mutation status, and under development with our collaborators.
the environment or portfolio prioritisation.
has already received US approval.
We also In development, the iDecide suite of digital received approval in the US and EU for our platforms is enabling the Digital Experimental As is to be expected when we are first respiratory biologic treatment, Fasenra, Cancer Medicine Team at The Christie investigating treatments for diseases for severe asthma, and in the EU for in Manchester, UK to put into practice that are hard to treat, we also had some combination use of Forxiga and Bydureon technology which will help to increase setbacks during the year.
These included for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
the access to real-time clinical data.
disappointing Phase III data results.
For example, the initial results of the MYSTIC In 2017, we presented scientific rationale Late-stage development trial showed that Imfinzi in combination with that resulted in nine regulatory designations During 2017, GMD delivered clinical trial data tremelimumab for 1st line NSCLC did not for Breakthrough Therapy or Priority Review and submissions that resulted in 19 approvals meet the primary endpoint of progressionfor new medicines which offer the potential for new medicines in the US, EU, China and free survival please see Oncology from page to address unmet medical need in certain Japan.
As shown in the table opposite, our 48 for more information.
Also, the Phase III diseases, and we also secured Orphan Drug pipeline includes 144 projects, of which 132 programme for tralokinumab did not achieve status for the development of three medicines are in the clinical phase of development, the desired outcomes of significantly reducing to treat very rare diseases.
For more and we are making significant progress in exacerbation rates for patients with severe, information on our pipeline and regulatory advancing our late-stage programmes through uncontrolled asthma or in reducing the use designations made during 2017, please see regulatory approval with 18 NME or major of oral corticosteroids.
See Respiratory from the Therapy Area Review from page 46 and LCM regulatory submissions during 2017. page 56 for more information.
the Development Pipeline from page 202.
24 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Development pipeline overview as at 31 December 2017 Phase I Phase II Late-stage Life-cycle 50 37 development 23 management projects 34 50 projects in Phase I, including: 37 projects in Phase II, including: 23 projects in late-stage development, 34 LCM projects 34 NMEs 20 NMEs either in Phase III pivotal Phase II 16 oncology combination projects 7 significant additional indications studies or under regulatory review: for projects that have reached 11 NMEs not yet approved in Phase III any market 10 oncology combination projects 8 projects exploring additional indications for these NMEs 4 NMEs already approved or launched in the EU, China, Japan and or the US NMEs and significant additional Only includes material projects where indications.
first indication is launched in all markets.
We also work in partnership to advance our centre from the end of 2018.
The site will be clinical research from strategic alliances fully operational from 2019.
This is later than with contract research organisations CROs originally planned and reflects the additional for the delivery of clinical trials, to academic innovation introduced into the development $5.8bn collaborations.
programme, combined with its scale and ambition.
The overall investment in the $5,757 million invested in Life-cycle management project will be higher than initially planned our science GMD also drives an extensive life-cycle and now stands at more than 500 million management programme for already- $700 million, reflecting increased investment approved medicines to pursue further in new technologies and equipment for indications and label updates to expand example genomics, screening lab as part 82 the potential for our products to help more of our ongoing investment in R&D in the UK.
For example, this year we made 82 manuscripts published regulatory submissions for Lynparza to extend Other R&D centres are located in the UK in high-impact scientific treatment into breast cancer: we received Alderley Park and Macclesfield, the US publications a record number US approval for a new auto-injector Bydureon Waltham, MA and California, Japan Osaka BCise for Type 2 diabetes: and we secured and China Shanghai.
We also have a site in US approval for Faslodex for earlier treatment Warsaw, Poland that focuses on late-stage of patients with advanced breast cancer.
To ensure we can deliver as many new In 2017, R&D expenditure was $5,757 million medicines programmes as we can with our 2016: $5,890 million: 2015: $5,997 million, budgets and resources, we continuously seek including core R&D costs of $5,412 million opportunities to enhance our ways of working 2016: $5,631 million: 2015: $5,603 million.
and, during 2017, we adopted new operating In addition, we spent $404 million on acquiring models for example within our clinical product rights such as in-licensing 2016: supply chain to drive further efficiencies $821 million: 2015: $1,341 million.
We also and cost effectiveness.
invested $201 million on the implementation of our R&D restructuring strategy R&D resources 2016: $178 million: 2015: $258 million.
We have approximately 8,400 employees The allocations of spend by early-stage in our R&D organisation, working in various and late-stage development are presented sites around the world.
We have three in the R&D spend analysis table below.
strategic R&D centres: Gaithersburg, MD, US: Gothenburg, Sweden: and Cambridge, UK.
R&D spend analysis 2017 2016 2015 Cambridge, UK, is a world-leading academic Discovery and and life sciences hub, and is where we are early-stage building our new strategic R&D centre and development 36% 36% 39% global corporate headquarters.
More than Late-stage 2,000 staff are already in the City and they development 64% 64% 61% will begin to move into the new strategic R&D AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 25 Business Review continued can Science help understand the unique challenges facing patients with asthma US Fasenra launch Shaping the external environment for the launch of Fasenra in the US with the goal of recognising severe asthma as a public health issue and highlighting the unique challenges facing patients with severe asthma, a cross-functional team engaged with decision makers and influencers, including state and federal policymakers, patients, providers, professional societies and advocacy 2.
The result was the updating We seek to return to growth by of how these stakeholders understand, acknowledge, and communicate around focusing on our Growth Platforms asthma as a heterogenous disease and leveraging our strong global requiring an individualised treatment approach.
This helped ensure that commercial presence, particularly external stakeholders understand severe asthma and appreciate the need in Emerging Markets, to ensure the for personalised treatment plans with right medicines are available and more advanced treatment options including Fasenra.
that patients have access to them.
Overview 2% decrease in Total Revenue to New CVMD: Sales growth of 9% $22,465 million at actual rate of exchange 9% at CER.
Strong performances 2% at CER : comprising Product Sales of from Farxiga and Brilinta, with sales $20,152 million down 5%: 5% at CER and exceeding $1 billion in 2017 Externalisation Revenue of $2,313 million Japan: 1% growth in sales 4% at CER, up 37%: 38% at CER underpinned by the growth of Tagrisso 5% increase in Growth Platforms revenue and Forxiga, partly mitigated by the 6% at CER, contributing 68% of Total impact of the entry of generic competition Revenue to Crestor in the second half of the year Emerging Markets: Sales growth of 6% New Oncology: Sales growth of 98% 8% at CER to $6,149 million.
Sales of Tagrisso reached in the year grew by 12% 15% at CER, $955 million to become AstraZenecas supported by the launches of new medicines largest-selling Oncology medicine Respiratory: Sales declined by 1% US revenue was down by 16% to $6,169 1% at CER.
Symbicort sales declined million: Europe down by 6% 7% at CER by 6% 6% at CER and Pulmicort sales to $4,753 million: and Established ROW Nanoparticles circulating in blood stream rose by 11% 12% at CER was static up 1% at CER to $3,081 million 26 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Our plans for growth stakeholders, reflecting factors such portion of their benefit design.
As part of Our Commercial teams, which comprised as clinical benefit, cost effectiveness, the ACA, we also pay a portion of an overall around 34,600 employees at the end of 2017, improvement to life expectancy and industry Patient Protection and Affordable are active in more than 100 countries.
Care Act Branded Prescription Drug Fee.
countries, we sell our medicines through whollyWe aim to ensure the sustainability owned local marketing companies.
We also sell of both the healthcare system and our In 2017, the overall measurable reduction in our through distributors and local representative research-led business model.
We believe profit before tax for the year due to discounts offices and market our products largely to we share a collective responsibility on branded pharmaceuticals in the Medicare primary care and specialty care physicians.
with healthcare providers and other Part D Coverage Gap and an industry-wide stakeholders to work together to enable HealthCare Reform Fee was $119 million Even as we continue to be impacted by the loss an efficient healthcare system for patients 2016: $471 million: 2015: $786 million.
of exclusivity on some of our leading medicines, today and support a pipeline of new we have delivered increasing revenues from our medicines for patients tomorrow.
In the US, there is significant pricing pressure growth brands and launches.
This return to We seek to ensure appropriate patient driven by payer consolidation, restrictive growth is being underpinned by the Growth access to our medicines.
We work closely reimbursement policies and cost control tools, Platforms.
In 2017, continued declines in revenue, with payers and providers to understand such as exclusionary formularies and price for example from the loss of exclusivity in 2016 their priorities and requirements, and play protection clauses.
Many formularies, which of Crestor and Seroquel XR, were substantially a leading role in projects to align better specify particular medicines that are approved offset by the strong performance of certain the requirements of regulatory and health to be prescribed in a healthcare system, or products from our Emerging Markets, New technology assessment HTA agencies under a health insurance policy, employ generic CVMD and New Oncology Growth Platforms, or other organisations that provide value first strategies and or require physicians to including Farxiga, Brilinta and Tagrisso.
For example, obtain prior approval for the use of a branded our strategy has progressed, so our Growth we have a leading role in the European medicine where a generic alternative exists.
Platforms have evolved, as shown in Strategy IMI ADAPT-SMART programme for These mechanisms can be used by and Key Performance Indicators from page 17. exploring adaptive licensing.
intermediaries to limit the use of branded Respiratory was joined by New Oncology from We pursue a flexible pricing approach products and put pressure on manufacturers January 2015 and, from January 2017, New that reflects the wide variation in global to reduce net prices.
In 2017, 84.9% of CVMD replaced Diabetes and Brilinta Brilique.
We have developed prescriptions dispensed in the US were generic, Our two remaining Growth Platforms, Emerging patient access programmes that are compared with 84.4% in 2016.
In addition, Markets and Japan, reflect the importance aligned with the ability to pay of patients patients are seeing changes in the design of of these markets to growing future revenues.
We are committed their health plan benefits and may experience Overall, our Growth Platforms grew by 5% to the appropriate use of managed variation, including increases, in both at actual exchange rates 6% at CER in 2017 entry schemes and the development premiums and out-of-pocket payments for their and now represent 68% of all Total Revenue.
of real-world evidence and we are branded medications.
The patient out-of-pocket investigating innovative approaches spend is generally in the form of a co-payment However, the pharmaceutical market is highly to the pricing of medicines, such as or co-insurance, but there is a growing trend competitive.
For example, our Diabetes payment for outcomes received by towards high deductible health plans which franchise continues to see pricing pressure.
the patient and healthcare system.
require patients to pay the full list price until In immuno-oncology, the large number they meet certain out-of-pocket thresholds.
of clinical trials that are being carried out US highlight the competitive nature of this area As the sixteenth largest prescription-based Ongoing scrutiny of the US pharmaceutical and renders speed to market critical.
pharmaceutical company in the US, we have industry, focused largely on pricing, has been a 2.5% market share of US pharmaceuticals the basis of multiple policy proposals in the M ore information on our performance around the by sales value.
Proposed changes under consideration world in 2017 can be found in the Geographical the US decreased by 16% to $6,169 million include varying approaches to price controls Review from page 221.
on medicines including price transparency as well as potential reforms to government Pricing and delivering value The US healthcare system is complex with regulated programmes such as Medicare Our medicines help treat unmet medical multiple payers and intermediaries exerting Part B, Medicare Part D, Medicaid or other need, improve health and create economic pressure on patient access to branded provisions under the ACA.
Effective treatments can lower medicines through regulatory and voluntary Medicare Part D non-interference clause healthcare costs by reducing the need for rebates.
Regulatory rebates are statutorily that currently prohibits the government from more expensive care, preventing more mandated chargebacks and discounts paid negotiating directly with manufacturers on serious and costly diseases and increasing on government-funded programmes such as drug prices as well as allowing the importation productivity.
Nevertheless, and as outlined Medicaid, Department of Defense including of medicines into the US from other countries in Marketplace from page 8, we are acutely TRICARE and Department of Veterans have been considered as a mechanism to aware of the economic challenges faced by Affairs.
Voluntary rebates are paid to managed reduce drug costs.
In addition, lawmakers at payers and remain committed to delivering care organisations and pharmacy benefit both the federal and state level have sought value.
We are committed to a pricing policy managers for commercially insured patients, increased drug pricing transparency and for our medicines based on four principles: including Medicare Part D patients.
In the have proposed and implemented policies that Medicare Part D programme, in addition include measures relating to the submission of We determine the price of our medicines to voluntary negotiated rebates, branded proprietary manufacturer data, establishment while considering their full value for patients, pharmaceutical manufacturers are statutorily of price parameters that are indexed to certain payers and society.
The agreement on price required to pay 50% of the patients out-offederal programmes, and reporting of changes involves many national, regional and local pocket costs during the coverage gap in pricing beyond certain thresholds.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 27 Business Review Return to Growth continued Though widespread adoption of a broad The PACIFIC Early Access Programme EAP Expansion in Emerging Markets national price control scheme in the near went live in September 2017 with the first Emerging Markets, as defined in Market future is unlikely, we continue to comply with patient included in October 2017.
The PACIFIC definitions on page 235, comprise various new state-level regulations in this area and we EAP is now open in 16 EU countries with countries with dynamic, growing economies.
recognise the sustained potential for substantial additional countries planned to be active.
As outlined in Marketplace from page 8, changes to laws and regulations regarding This is a great example of our ability to put these countries represent a major growth drug pricing that could have a significant the patient first and to offer life-changing opportunity for the pharmaceutical industry impact on the pharmaceutical industry.
medicine to patients in need.
due to high unmet medical needs and sound economic fundamentals.
Emerging Markets We understand that our medicines will not Established Rest of World ROW are not immune, however, to economic benefit patients if they are unable to afford In 2017, Product Sales in Japan increased by downturn.
Market volatility is higher than in them and thats why we offer a number of 1% at actual rate of exchange increased 4% Established Markets and various political and resources and programmes that can help at CER to $2,208 million 2016: $2,184 million, economic challenges exist.
These include increase patients access to medication and as a result of the strong growth from the regulatory and government interventions.
We focus brands in our Growth Platforms and Nexium.
In selected markets, governments are our formulary access on affordability for Particularly strong performances from encouraging local manufacturing by offering patients through rebate payments as well Tagrisso and the Diabetes franchise helped more favourable pricing legislation and pricing as savings cards for eligible patients when to drive this volume growth, offsetting generic is increasingly controlled by governments the out-of-pocket costs are not affordable.
Crestor, for example, is now with price referencing regulations.
AstraZeneca has one of the longest-standing facing significant generic competition.
patient assistance programmes in the In September 2017, a Crestor authorised Growth drivers for Emerging Markets industry, AZ&Me, which provides eligible generic entered the market and in December include new medicines across our Diabetes, patients with AstraZeneca medicines at no 2017 we saw more than 20 generic companies Respiratory, Oncology and CV portfolios.
AstraZeneca has provided prescription enter the statin market with generic To educate physicians about our broad savings to 4.5 million patients across the rosuvastatin.
We now hold ninth position in portfolio, we are selectively investing in sales US and Puerto Rico over the past 10 years.
the ranking of pharmaceutical companies capabilities where opportunities from unmet by sales of medicines in Japan.
Despite the medical needs exist.
We are also expanding F or more information, see Community mandated biennial government price cuts and our reach through multi-channel marketing Investment on page 45. increased intervention from the government to and external partnerships.
rapidly increase the volume share of generic Europe products, Japan remains an attractive market With revenues of $6,149 million, AstraZeneca The total European pharmaceutical market for innovative pharmaceuticals.
These price was the sixth largest multinational was worth $214 billion in 2017.
We are the cuts are likely to continue as are experimental pharmaceutical company, as measured fourteenth largest prescription-based decisions by regulators based on cost by prescription sales, and the second  company in Europe see effectiveness assessments.
growing top 10 multinational pharmaceutical Market definitions on page 235 with a 2.2% company in Emerging Markets in 2017. market share of pharmaceutical sales by value.
Canada has a mixed public private payer system for medicines that is funded by the In China, AstraZeneca is the second largest In 2017, our Product Sales in Europe provinces, insurers and individual patients.
pharmaceutical company by value in the decreased by 6% at actual rate of It has also now become common for public hospital sector, as measured by sales.
exchange 7% at CER to $4,753 million payers to negotiate lower non-transparent Sales in China in 2017 increased by 12% 2016: $5,064 million.
Key drivers of the prices after they have gone through a review at actual rate of exchange 15% at CER decline, leaving aside the impact of by the Canadian Agency for Drugs and to $2,955 million 2016: $2,636 million.
We divestments such as the anaesthetics Technology in Health, a health technology delivered sales growth above the growth rate portfolio, Seloken and Zomig, were continued assessment body.
Most private insurers pay of the hospital market sector through strategic competition from Symbicort analogues, full price, although there is increasing pressure brand investment, systematic organisational ongoing volume erosion of Pulmicort, to achieve lower pricing.
Overall, the split for capability improvements and long-term market Seroquel XR and Nexium following loss of AstraZenecas portfolio is 63% funded by expansion programmes in core therapy areas.
exclusivity, and the continued impact of early private payers and 37% with public plans.
In addition, five products including Brilinta, generic entry in certain markets for Crestor Onglyza and Faslodex were listed in the and Faslodex, which we expect to continue Our sales in Australia and New Zealand updated National Reimbursed Drug List in 2018.
The continued macroeconomic declined by 5% at actual rate of exchange NRDL and we launched two key products environment, pricing pressure from payers 7% at CER in 2017.
This was primarily due Tagrisso and Forxiga during 2017.
Pricing and parallel trade across markets also to the continued erosion of Crestor, Nexium practices remain a priority for regulators affected sales.
Despite these conditions, and Seroquel by generic medicines and and new national regulations, in addition to we continued to launch innovative medicines price reductions on established brands.
provincial and hospital tenders, continue to put across Europe and saw significant progress Sales declined less in 2017 than in 2016 as increasing pricing pressures on pharmaceutical of certain products across our Growth the pace of generic erosion has moderated companies in China.
The industry-wide growth Platforms, in particular with Forxiga, while the sales growth from new products rate is expected to be a moderate single digit Xigduo, Brilinta, Lynparza and Tagrisso.
such as Brilinta, Lynparza and the Diabetes percentage, following the recent update of portfolio has continued.
Brilinta, Lynparza and the NRDL and expanding health insurance Following the presentation of the PACIFIC the Diabetes portfolio grew by 15% at actual coverage.
Nevertheless, the healthcare trial at ESMO in 2017, we have overseen a rate of exchange 10% at CER, 100% actual environment in China remains dynamic.
mobilisation of medical teams across Europe and CER and 27% at actual rate of exchange Opportunities are arising from incremental to be able to offer early access to Imfinzi for 25% at CER respectively.
healthcare investment, strong underlying patients with unresectable stage 3 NSCLC.
demand for our more established medicines Established ROW comprises Australia, Canada, and the emergence of innovative medicines.
28 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science help more patients in China China market development Our business in China is able to expand only by meeting the needs of an increasing number of patients.
In order to do this, we partner with stakeholders at the local, provincial and national level and we recognise that our ability to grow our business is directly related to even more patients being able to access quality healthcare.
One important way we do this is through our China Commercial Innovation Centre, where, with our partners, we develop ways to integrate Access to healthcare Other programmes are focused on developing technology into all parts of healthcare We continue to make our medicines affordable healthcare system infrastructure.
For example, delivery, increasing the chance that the to more people on a commercially and socially Phakamisa supports the South African right treatment is delivered to the right sustainable basis.
As, on average, almost healthcare system by bringing together patient at the right time.
For example, by working with different stakeholders, half of medicine funding in emerging countries different organisations to strengthen our online nebulisation centres across is paid for by the patient or their families, healthcare capabilities and improve certain parts of China are now up and we base our approach in these markets access to treatment and support networks.
running and their availability is updated on an understanding of their economic It aims to reduce the burden of breast and in real time.
Therefore, patients who need to access treatment have all the circumstances and the burden placed on them prostate cancer and lung disease through information they need to access care by health costs.
We are aiming to enable our the promotion of primary prevention, wherever they may need it.
Emerging Markets to deliver better and broader early detection and access to affordable patient access through innovative and targeted medicines.
Launched in September 2017, equitable pricing strategies and practices.
Healthy Lung Asia is a region-wide initiative, with programmes being tailored and We have a variety of access programmes developed in nine countries across Asia in Healthy Heart Africa HHA was launched around the world, each tailored to meet the collaboration with local partners.
The overall in Kenya in October 2014 in collaboration needs of the local community, which include objective of Healthy Lung Asia is to raise with the Ministry of Health in support of its a patients ability to pay.
These include patient the profile of respiratory disease with policy commitment to combat NCDs.
Following assistance programmes, such as Terapia makers and build health system capacity the success of HHA in Kenya, we developed Plus in Ukraine, Karte Zdorovia in Russia to support future access.
It started with a partnership with the Federal Ministry of and FazBem in Brazil.
programmes in Vietnam and Indonesia.
Health in Ethiopia in 2016 to integrate HHA programming into the Ethiopian healthcare F or more information, see page 39.
We also run donation programmes, such as system, in support of the Government in Cambodia, where we celebrated the ninth National Strategic Action Plan for NCDs.
year of our partnership with Americares in HHA aims to reach 10 million people with support of the Cambodia Breast Cancer high blood pressure across Africa by 2025, Initiative.
In 2017, it provided approximately supporting WHOs global target of a 25% 700 screenings, more than 8,000 education reduction in hypertension prevalence by 2025, sessions, and diagnosed 59 cases of and on page 40 you can see the progress breast cancer.
F or more information on product donations, F or more information on Broadening access to healthcare see Community investment on page 45. as one of our sustainability priorities, please see page 39.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 29 Business Review Return to Growth continued can Science bring benefits to patients faster when we work in partnership Strategic partnership with MSD In July 2017, AstraZeneca announced a strategic collaboration with MSD to maximise the potential of Lynparza as a monotherapy and as the backbone for oncology combinations, as well Operations In 2017, we hosted 56 independent inspections as explore the potential of selumetinib, from 21 regulatory authorities.
We reviewed an inhibitor of MEK, part of the mitogenOur manufacturing and supply activated protein kinase MAPK observations from these inspections together function supports our Return to pathway.
The collaboration was driven with the outcomes of internal audits and, where by our commitment to following the Growth, and our Operations necessary, implemented improvement actions.
science: PARP inhibition is increasingly 2020 plan provides a focus for recognised as a foundation for mono and combination therapies.
Following the second CRL received at ZS our investments.
They will help For example, blocking PD-L1 can Pharma for ZS-9, the site has completed potentiate the effect of PARP inhibition ensure we are able to respond manufacturing process validation and the in tumour suppression and MEK to patient and market needs for NDA was refiled with the FDA in December.
inhibitors can make a tumour more responsive to immunotherapy.
For further details please see the CVMD The collaboration enables us to work section from page 52. hand-in-hand with another leading Operations 2020 was launched in 2015 oncology company and one of the to enhance supply capabilities in order to We are committed to maintaining the highest key players in immuno-oncology to accelerate new and existing ideas.
respond better to patient and market needs.
ethical standards and compliance with internal The increased resources and focus It focuses on supporting the delivery of policies, laws and regulations.
We review bring potential benefit to more patients our new product launches, strengthening and comment upon evolving national and in need faster than we can do alone.
our science and technology capabilities international compliance regulations through Together, we are building an even broader clinical programme and we across the globe, creating a more agile our membership of industry associations, are working hard to deliver it as quickly and flexible supply chain, and embedding including IFPMA, EFPIA and PhRMA.
Lean principles throughout our network.
Our goal is to be recognised as a leader in Pharmaceutical Technology & Development the biopharmaceutical supply chain by 2020.
PT&D The integration of PT&D into our Operations marketed products through our new global Quality, regulation and compliance organisation since 2016 has driven greater Manufacturing Science and Technology We are committed to high product quality, collaboration between our technical groups organisation and manufacturing site which underpins the safety and efficacy of and manufacturing sites, allowing substantial Centers of Excellence.
We maintain a comprehensive manufacturing and scientific expertise and quality management system to assure leadership to inform decisions for the discovery, Our continued innovation in science and compliance and quality.
Similarly, we set strict development and commercialisation of small technology allows us to enable and differentiate standards for safety, health and environment molecule portfolios.
products including Lynparza, Qtern, Bevespi, at each of our sites.
Manufacturing facilities Calquence, Brilinta and potential new products and processes are subject to rigorous and We are actively working on over 150 drug such as PT010 as they are introduced into the continuously evolving regulatory standards.
projects across our R&D and Commercial marketplace and ultimately into the hands of They are subject to inspections by regulatory portfolios, streamlining over 400 innovation patients globally.
In 2017, we also launched the authorities, who are authorised to mandate ideas from concept to business case, Turbo programme, our digital Integrated improvements to facilities and processes, and supporting more than 250 AstraZeneca Patient Solution for Symbicort Turbuhaler.
halt production and impose conditions clinical studies worldwide.
We also support F or more information, please see Respiratory on page 56. for production to resume.
over 100 in-line brands and small molecule 30 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Manufacturing capabilities Partnering Examples of collaborations entered into Our principal tablet and capsule formulation in 2017 that help us access therapy area Business development, specifically sites are in the UK, Sweden, China, Puerto expertise or generate sustainable and partnering, is an important element Rico and the US, with local regional supply ongoing income include: of our business.
It supplements and sites in Russia, Japan, Indonesia, Egypt, India, Germany, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina strengthens our pipeline and our our partnership with MSD regarding and Algeria.
We also have major formulation Lynparza and selumetinib in Oncology efforts to achieve scientific leadership.
sites for the global supply of parenteral our collaboration with Sanofi Pasteur We partner with others around and or inhalation products in the US, for MEDI8897 the world, including academia, Sweden, France, Australia and the UK.
our agreement with TerSera for Zoladex Most of the manufacture of API is delivered governments, industry, scientific in the US and Canada.
through the efficient use of external organisations and patient groups, sourcing that is complemented by internal In each case, we are optimising the longas well as other biopharmaceutical capability in Sweden.
term value of each medicine through the companies, to access the best science collaboration.
For biologics, our principal commercial to stimulate innovation and accelerate manufacturing facilities are in the US Frederick, Examples of collaborations that help us the delivery of new medicines to target MD: Greater Philadelphia, PA: Boulder and increase our reach to a greater number of unmet medical need.
We currently Longmont, CO, the UK Speke, and the patients include the strategic partnership have more than 600 collaborations Netherlands Nijmegen with capabilities in with Circassia regarding the promotion process development, manufacturing and around the world.
of Tudorza and the development and distribution of biologics, including global commercialisation of Duaklir in the US.
supply of mAbs and influenza vaccines.
More generally, our business development Tudorza and Duaklir are important activity takes many forms and can be broadly components of AstraZenecas Respiratory In 2017, we launched our first two new grouped into: franchise globally and this collaboration will biologics medicines, Imfinzi and Fasenra, support their commercialisation in the US using our large-scale drug substance alliances, collaborations and acquisitions for the benefit of millions of COPD patients.
manufacturing facility in Frederick, MD, to enhance our portfolio and pipeline in It also further sharpens our focus on US.
We continue to develop additional our main therapy areas Symbicort, Bevespi Aerosphere, Fasenra and manufacturing capacity for both drug externalisation activity to maximise the other respiratory development programmes.
substance and drug product production.
value of our assets Our new small-scale high-titre drug substance divestments of non-priority medicines.
Alongside these externalisation opportunities, manufacturing facility, also in Frederick, we also divest medicines that typically sit began producing clinical supply material We continue to assess opportunities to make outside our main therapy areas and that can in 2017.
Our recently acquired facility in strategic, value-enhancing additions to our be deployed better by a partner, in order to Longmont, CO, US has been integrated into portfolio and pipeline in our main therapy redirect investment and resource in our main our Colorado Biologics operations to provide areas, including through in-licensing and areas of focus while ensuring continued cold chain logistics support to our Boulder, acquisitions.
No acquisitions were completed or expanded patient access.
For example, CO, US drug substance manufacturing facility.
in 2017. in 2017, we sold to Aspen our remaining rights In Sweden, we expect our new biologics drug in the anaesthetic portfolio, we divested product manufacturing facility to be available Over the past three years, we have completed commercial rights to Seloken Seloken ZOK for clinical trial programmes by the end of 2018. more than 250 major or strategically important in Europe to Recordati and divested to business development transactions, including Grnenthal the global, ex-Japan, rights to For small molecules we are constructing a new some 54 in 2017.
These agreements will enable us small-scale development and launch facility 17 were related to pre-clinical assets or to concentrate our resources on bringing alongside our existing manufacturing facility programmes and nine to precision medicine multiple new medicines to patients.
This investment will support the and biomarkers.
Twenty transactions helped acceleration of delivery of our new innovative expand our biologics capabilities.
The resulting revenue from these activities medicines to patients in China.
Completion supports our R&D investments in our main of this high-potential facility, expected in 2018, Externalisation is a core component of our therapy areas.
Thirteen transactions that will complete our ability to execute in China strategy and has an important role to play in contribute to Externalisation Revenue and across the whole life-cycle of a medicine from the delivery of our ambition as we continue to a further 10 divestments or out-licences discovery to commercialisation.
sharpen our focus on developing key assets were completed in 2017. within our main therapy areas.
This activity M ore information on our partnering activity in 2017 At the end of 2017, approximately 12,600 creates additional value from our existing can be found in the Financial Review from page 66 people were employed at 31 Operations medicines as well as recurring Externalisation and Notes 1 and 2 to the Financial Statements from sites in 18 countries.
Revenue and falls broadly into two categories: page 145. a collaborations that help us access therapy F or more information on Supply chain management, area expertise and b collaborations that help please see page 42. us increase the number of patients and the reach of medicines in which we maintain an ongoing interest, but which typically sit outside our main therapy areas.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 31 Business Review Return to Growth continued Intellectual Property Patent expiries The table on pages 208 and 209 sets out Our industrys principal economic certain patent expiry dates and sales for safeguard is a well-functioning our key marketed products.
31 system of patent and related We have 31 Operations sites in protection that recognises our Other exclusivities 18 countries Regulatory data protection RDP or data efforts and rewards innovation with exclusivity is an important additional form appropriate protection and allows of exclusivity which is separate from, but runs time to generate the revenue we in parallel to, patent exclusivity.
RDP arises need to reinvest in pharmaceutical in respect of data which is required to be 250 submitted to regulatory authorities to obtain innovation.
Patent rights are limited Completed more than 250 major or marketing approvals for our medicines.
strategically important business Significant investment is required to generate transactions in the last three years such data for example, through conducting A significant portion of a patents duration global clinical trials and this proprietary data can be spent during R&D, before it is possible is protected from use by third parties such as to launch the protected product.
Therefore, generic manufacturers for a number of years we commit significant resources to in a limited number of countries.
The period 600 establishing and defending our patent of such protection, and the extent to which We have more than 600 and related IP protections for inventions.
it is respected, differs significantly among collaborations worldwide countries and varies depending on whether Patent process an approved drug is a small or large molecule We file patent protection applications for our compound.
RDP is an important protection inventions to safeguard the large investment for our products, and we strive to enforce required to obtain marketing approvals for our rights to it, particularly as patent rights potential new drugs.
As we further develop a are increasingly being challenged.
product and its uses, these new developments may necessitate new patent filings.
We apply The RDP period starts from the date of the Our industrys for patents through government patent offices first marketing approval from the relevant around the world.
These assess whether our regulatory authority and runs parallel to any principal inventions meet the strict legal requirements patent protection.
For small molecule drugs, for a patent to be granted.
Our competitors RDP generally expires prior to patent expiry economic can challenge our patents in patent offices in all major markets.
We may face challenges early safeguard is a in the patent application process and If a product takes an unusually long time throughout a patents life.
The grounds for to secure marketing approval, or if patent well-functioning these challenges could be the validity of a protection has not been secured, has expired patent and or its effective scope and are or has been lost, then RDP may be the sole system of based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
IP right protecting a product from copying.
We are experiencing increased challenges in Generic manufacturers, we believe, should patent and the US and elsewhere in the world such as in not be allowed to rely on AstraZenecas data Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe and to support the generic products approval related Japan and there can be no guarantee of or marketing until the RDP right has expired.
success for either party in patent proceedings.
In the EU, the RDP period is eight years protection.
For information about third party challenges to followed by two years marketing exclusivity.
patents protecting our products, see Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
In the US, new chemical entities NCEs are For more information on the risks relating to entitled to a period of five years RDP under patent litigation and early loss and expiry of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
patents, please see Risk from page 210.
This period of RDP runs parallel to any pending or granted patent protection and The basic term of a patent is typically 20 years starts at the approval of the new application.
from the filing of the patent application with There are circumstances where RDP could the relevant patent office.
However, a product be the sole layer of exclusivity protecting a protected by a pharmaceutical patent may not product from being copied.
Further, under be marketed for several years after filing, due the Biologics License Application process, to the duration of clinical trials and regulatory the FDA will grant 12 years data RDP for a approval processes.
Patent Term Extensions new biologic to an innovator manufacturer.
PTE are available in certain major markets, including the EU and the US, to compensate for these delays.
The term of the PTE can vary from zero to five years, depending on the time taken to obtain any marketing approval.
The maximum patent term, when including PTE, cannot exceed 15 years EU or 14 years US from the first marketing authorisation.
32 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science improve R&D productivity 5Rs In a research paper published in Nature Reviews Drug Discovery in January 2018, our IMED Biotech Unit documents a more than four-fold improvement in R&D productivity following significant revision of its approach and adoption of a 5R framework right target, right patient, right tissue, right safety, right commercial potential.
The framework has guided successful, efficient drug discovery and development while financial investment in R&D has remained unchanged.
The IMED Biotech Units 5R framework focuses on quality rather than quantity at all stages of drug discovery and development.
Hence, the number of projects in discovery has decreased Under Orphan Drug laws in the EU and US, Information technology and while their likelihood of success has market exclusivity is granted to an innovator information services resources increased.
Other key factors include who gains approval for a pharmaceutical investment in state-of-the-art In 2017, we embarked on the second product developed to treat a rare disease.
technologies, such as CRISPR phase of our IT journey, taking see page 126, and next-generation What qualifies as a rare disease differs sequencing, to produce better quality between the EU and US.
Qualifying Orphan what we successfully delivered in drug candidates for development, as Drugs are granted 10 years market exclusivity well as a change in culture to focus our three-year transformation to in the EU and seven years market exclusivity on the science.
As a result, its success the next level.
The foundation of our rate in discovering new compounds, in the US.
which then progress through the future focus is based on improved pipeline to completion of Phase III Compulsory licensing cost efficiency, systems performance clinical trials, increased from 4% in Compulsory licensing where a Patent the period 2005-2010 to 19% in the and better support for the business period 2012-2016.
This places Authority imposes a licence on the Patentee priorities.
Our focus for the next R&D productivity well above the is on the increase in certain markets in pharmaceutical industry average three years is to optimise and enable which we operate.
We recognise the right of of 6% for small molecules in the developing countries to use the flexibilities in accelerated revenue growth and period 2013-2015. the World Trade Organizations Agreement on profitability through digitisation Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property and innovation.
Rights including the Doha amendment in certain circumstances, such as a public health emergency.
We believe this should apply only Leveraging the operating model implemented and update.
We monitor our systems and when all other ways of meeting the emergency during the transformation, we will build on data with sophisticated technology to needs have been considered and where business productivity and ensure targeted identify and address potential weaknesses healthcare frameworks and safeguards outcomes that accelerate drug developments, in the management of cyber security risk.
exist to ensure the medicines reach those help us bring products to market faster Over 54,000 employees have also completed who need them.
and support tools required for specialised internal cyber awareness training in 2017. medicines.
We will also harness our internal We recognise that cyber security is a rapidly capabilities to develop robust strategies evolving landscape and attacks display on data and analytics, software engineering ever-increasing levels of sophistication.
and cloud technology all of which will The risk of a cyber security event cannot be support the business and its various discounted despite these preventative actions.
F or more details, please see Risk from page 210.
Protecting our IT systems, IP and confidential information against cyber attacks is a At the end of 2017, our IT organisation key concern.
Our IT organisation seeks comprised approximately 3,715 people across continuous improvement of our IT protection our sites in the UK, Sweden, the US, and our by developing and implementing robust, global technology centres in India Chennai effective and agile risk-based approaches to and Mexico Guadalajara.
protect our resources and keep pace with the rapidly evolving cyber security risk landscape.
To help guard against cyber threats, we have adopted a comprehensive cyber security process and policy, which we regularly review AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 33 Business Review continued 3.
Be a Great Place to Work Great people are central to our success and being a great place to work is at the heart of our efforts to release the talents of our people.
We promote a culture, both for employees and those third parties with whom we work, that delivers sustainable good performance and long-term business success.
Overview Encouraging improvements in scores in our employee survey Pulse Continued development of women and increase in the representation of women in senior roles Employee retention remains challenging To foster innovation, in specific areas of the business Maintained listing in Pharmaceuticals, we seek to ensure Biotechnology and Life Sciences industry group of Dow Jones Sustainability Index that our employees Launched Code of Ethics based on our Values reflect the diversity Continued progress towards our target to source 100% renewable power by 2025 of the communities Launched Healthy Lung Asia to raise Selective crystal structure traps profile of respiratory disease and build potassium and removes it from the body in which we operate.
health system capacity 34 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Employees The voluntary employee turnover rate among Sales and Marketing workforce our high performers increased in 2017 to composition % To achieve our strategic priorities, 7.1% from 6.1% in 2016, while the voluntary we continue to acquire, retain and employee turnover of recent hires decreased Emerging Markets 57% develop a talented and diverse to 12.2% from 12.7% in 2016.
We seek to Established Markets 43% workforce united in the pursuit of reduce regretted turnover through more effective hiring and induction, exit interviews, our Purpose and living our Values.
risk assessments and retention plans.
We value the talents and skills of our employees and our people strategy supports our strategic The uncertainty faced by individuals and their priority of being a great place to work.
families following the UKs decision to leave the EU in the referendum in June 2016 could Build and develop organisations have an impact on hiring and retaining staff in and capabilities some business-critical areas.
Consequently, We are committed to hiring and promoting talent we are considering ways in which we might relationships, for example introducing ethically and in compliance with applicable laws.
support existing staff who might be impacted mentoring by senior females for emerging Our current Global People Policy sets out how and, through our hiring process, ways of talent in Operations.
we will meet our commitment to promoting and supporting potential staff.
maintaining a culture of diversity and equal In 2017, 88% of vacancies across the top three opportunity, in which individual success depends Develop a strong and diverse levels of our organisation were filled internally, solely on personal ability and contribution.
pipeline of leaders reflecting our long-term commitment to It describes the principles of our commitment To foster innovation, we seek to harness different develop high-quality leaders.
To ensure and provides a framework for developing and perspectives, talents and ideas as well as our senior leadership reflects our diverse implementing the people plans needed to ensuring that our employees reflect the diversity geographic footprint, we track the country of ensure we deliver these principles consistently of the communities in which we operate.
origin of senior leaders and reflect this in our worldwide.
The Global People Policy and its diversity targets.
In 2017, 13.4% of leadership supporting Standards are designed to help As part of our commitment to diversity and roles that report to our senior leadership team protect against discrimination on any grounds inclusion we have implemented numerous have a country of origin that is an Emerging including disability and cover recruitment and initiatives across the globe, such as unconscious Market or Japan an increase from 5% in 2012, selection, performance management, career bias training, the formation of various employee but below our 2017 target of 16%.
development and promotion, transfer, training, resource groups such as an LGBT network retraining including retraining, if needed, for and, in some parts of the business, the creation Diversity is integrated across our new Code people who have become disabled, and of a People Manager objective to ensure all of Ethics and associated workforce policy.
More information on our Global recruitment includes diverse applicant slates In addition to the two diversity metrics tracked Policy framework can be found on page 40, and diverse interview panels.
in the AstraZeneca scorecard, on an annual our Code of Ethics on page 98 and our basis the SET and Board are provided with a Global Policies can be found on our website, Our commitments include a goal to increase comprehensive overview of the AstraZeneca www.
the number of women on our leadership teams.
workforce, covering a wide range of metrics As shown in the gender diversity figure on page and measures including trends around gender To help deliver our strategic priorities, we are 37, women comprise 50.1% of our global diversity, leadership ethnic diversity and identifying and recruiting emerging talent, as workforce.
There are currently five women on age profile.
The SET is also provided with a well as investing in internships and recruitment our Board 42% of the total.
Below Board level, quarterly summary of key workforce metrics, opportunities globally.
For example, we conduct the representation of women in senior roles including gender diversity and leadership a global programme to hire recent graduates ie roles at Career Level F or above which ethnic diversity.
Within the US, we track overall for our pharmaceutical technical development, constitute the six highest bands of our ethnic minority representation, ethnic minority procurement, quality, engineering, IT, employee population increased to 44.4% in representation in senior roles, and ethnic supply chain, and biometrics and information 2017 from 43.2% in 2016, which exceeded minority representation in succession plans.
We also have a graduate our scorecard target of 43.5% for this programme for IMED, which complements our measure and compares favourably to external Drive a vibrant, high-performing culture established IMED Post Doctorate Programme benchmarks.
Women are also currently Continuing our emphasis on high performance, for researcher recruitment.
Additionally, we promoted at a higher rate than men across in 2017 our high performers were promoted at offer a 12-week internship opportunity for all levels of seniority, positively impacting the twice the rate of the wider employee population.
business school students to contribute to key gender balance.
In 2017, AstraZeneca was We require every employee to have high-quality initiatives in our Oncology therapeutic area.
ranked 15th in the FTSE 100 for Women on objectives, aligned to our strategy, which we Boards and 9th for Women on Executive monitor closely.
Managers are accountable for Hiring over recent years means that employees Committees and Direct Reports.
Our progress working with their employees to develop individual with less than two years service now represent has been recognised externally with Bahija and team performance targets, and for ensuring 31% of our global workforce up from 20% in Jallal Executive Vice-President, MedImmune employees understand how they contribute to 2012.
This provides a greater balance in terms being named 2017 Woman of the Year by the our overall business objectives.
Through increased of refreshing talent and retaining organisational Healthcare Businesswomens Association.
investment in technology, we have also experience.
2017 saw an increase in hiring extended our global annual salary and incentive to support our strategic objectives.
Our data In 2017, we extended our Women as Leaders review process to cover 87% of the population indicates that these recent hires are performing experience to support the accelerated 60% in 2016.
We encourage participation in strongly, although in some areas of the development of high-potential women in various employee share plans, some of which business retention of this population is AstraZeneca.
In addition, we have developed are described in the Directors Remuneration challenging.
During 2017, we hired 11,000 womens networks in most countries, held a Report from page 105, and also in Note 27 permanent employees.
Voluntary employee womens summit in the UK, US and Sweden, to the Financial Statements, from page 179. turnover remained stable at 9.7% in 2017. and continued to support mentoring AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 35 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Our salary and bonus budgets are distributed As part of our ambition to transform the trafficking in our supply chains or any part of in line with our principles, allowing us to clearly learning culture in AstraZeneca, we have our business.
Our full statement required under differentiate reward according to performance.
implemented a best-practice cloud-based section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act is global learning management system that available on our website, www.
Employee opinion surveys help us measure will provide a platform to ensure development employee satisfaction and engagement, and opportunities are available to all employees.
We support the principles set out in the United progress in our aim of being a great place to Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights work.
Our most recent survey, carried out in In 2017, we launched Leading People, and the International Labour Organizations December 2017, showed an improvement a social online learning platform, with over ILO standards on child labour and minimum compared to the survey at the start of the 4,000 managers enrolling on the course.
We are also members of the United year in scores for all 11 items common to both We saw a significant increase in the score in Nations Global Compact on Human Rights.
Importantly, we saw good progress a number of key Pulse survey items among this in employee understanding and belief in our cohort, in particular those around engagement We measure human rights by means of a strategy, perception of AstraZeneca as a great and personal development.
This work was labour review survey every two years in place to work and questions related to personal recognised with a significant external award.
all countries where we have a presence.
Despite progress in the latest Furthermore, in 2017, we also launched a The review focuses on ILO core themes, survey, there remains further opportunity for pilot for over 200 employees for the related including freedom of association and improvement around leadership communication.
programme Leading Self, which will be collective bargaining, child labour, rolled out to all employees globally in 2018. discrimination, working hours and wages, Generate a passion for people including questions on the Living Wage.
development Human rights Where local gaps to ILO minimum standards We encourage employees to take ownership Our Global People Policy and Human Rights are identified, such as maternity leave or of their own development and encourage Statement commit us to respecting and grievance procedures, we put in place local leaders to spend time supporting their promoting international human rights not only plans to close those gaps where allowed by employees development.
To support this, in our own operations, but also in our wider relevant national legislation.
Our reporting we have implemented a global platform to spheres of influence, such as our third-party in this area is assured by Bureau Veritas.
increase the visibility and accessibility of providers.
To that end, we integrate human For more information, please see page 227. job opportunities and received over 18,500 rights considerations into our processes and applications from internal candidates through practices.
We are also committed to ensuring this platform in 2017. that there is no modern slavery or human A global business Employees by reporting region % By geographical area Emerging Markets 43.1% Europe 28.4% US 21.0% 3 8 Established Rest of World 7.5% 2 4 7 11 1 10 6 All numbers as at 31 December 2017.
9 5 61,100 employees 12 Co-locating around three strategic R&D centres 1.
Middle East Pacific New Zealand 9.4% and Africa 6,300 1,000 1,600 10.3% 1.6% 2.6% 36 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report In 2017, we signed up to the Fair Wage Employee relations and monitoring a set of safety, health and database and will use this data to measure We seek to follow a global approach wellbeing targets aimed at supporting our and monitor performance and issue directions to employee relations guided by global people and keeping AstraZeneca among the on the Living Wage.
employment principles and standards, sector leaders in performance.
Our reporting local laws and good practice.
We work to in this area is assured by Bureau Veritas.
Managing change develop and maintain good relations with For more information, please see page 227.
We continue to implement plans to invest in our local workforces and work closely with three strategic R&D centres in the US, UK and our recognised national trade unions.
We encourage and support employees We also regularly consult with employee As shown below, we made progress against to relocate and have made good progress.
representatives or, where applicable, trade our strategic targets in 2017, achieving a 17% For example, as at 31 December 2017, 2,200 unions, who share our aim of retaining key reduction in the reportable injury rate and a employees were working in Cambridge and, skills and mitigating job losses.
According 28% reduction in vehicle collision rate from of these employees, 560 have relocated from to our internal Human Rights survey carried the 2015 baseline.
Building on our previous other sites in the UK.
In addition to the 750 out in 2016, 58% 106 countries surveyed success in establishing a culture of health employees hired in 2015 and 2016, we hired of countries in which AstraZeneca operates and wellbeing, we continue to focus on active a further 350 permanent employees in recognise and have a relationship with health promotion.
We have programmes to Cambridge in 2017.
We are using interim trade unions.
Where trade unions do address all four essential health activities infrastructure in and around Cambridge to not exist in an area of operation, 99% of healthy eating and drinking, physical activity, house these employees until our new site countries have established arrangements tobacco cessation and mental wellbeing is ready.
For employees who do not accept to engage similarly with their workforce.
offers to relocate to Cambridge, we provide career support, outplacement support and Safety, health and wellbeing In 2017, we carried out several activities and competitive severance packages.
For more We work to promote a safe, healthy and initiatives focused on delivery of improvements information on our move to Cambridge, energising work environment for employees in key risk areas, including driver safety our please see R&D resources on page 25. and partners.
Our standards apply globally highest risk for significant injury and fatalities, and are stated in our Global Safety, behavioural safety, ergonomics, fall prevention F or more information on our restructuring programme, Health and Environment Policy located and industrial hygiene.
We also increased please see the Financial Review from page 66. on www.
focus on learning from incidents.
Due diligence includes establishing Gender diversity Safety Board of Directors of the Company Directors of the Companys subsidiaries Vehicle collisions Collisions Male 58% Male 71.7% Year per million km Target Female 42% Female 28.3% 2017 2.97 3.76 2016 3.60 4.00 2015 baseline 4.13 SET AstraZeneca employees Reportable injuries Male 64% Male 49.9% Reportable injury rate Female 36% Female 50.1% Target Year per million hours worked 2017 1.44 1.56 2016 1.52 1.64 2015 baseline 1.73 2016 data re-stated.
For the purposes of section 414C 8 c ii of the Companies Act 2006, Senior Managers are the SET, the directors of all of the subsidiaries of the Company and other individuals holding named positions within those subsidiaries.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 37 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Sustainability Priority areas and objectives We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of 1.
Broadening access to healthcare great medicines over the long term.
That is why we are committed to Through collaboration and Commitment 1: Promote awareness and prevention of innovation we strive to expand non-communicable diseases NCDs to reduce their global operating in a way that recognises access to our medicines.
burden and cost the interconnection between Commitment 2: Build capacity to help improve the underlying See from page 39. healthcare infrastructure and remove barriers to accessing business growth, the needs of society medical treatment and the limitations of our planet.
Commitment 3: Make our medicines available and more affordable to people on a commercially and socially sustainable basis This means delivering our business strategy in a way that broadens 2.
Furthering ethics and transparency access to our medicines, minimises We commit to maintaining Commitment 1: Working to consistent global standards of ethical the environmental footprint of integrity in everything we do.
sales and marketing practices in all our markets our products and processes, and Commitment 2: Working only with suppliers who have standards See from page 40. consistent with our own ensures that ethics and transparency Commitment 3: Working on continued transparency with our underpin everything we do.
data in clinical trials Commitment 4: Applying sound bioethics to all our work Commitment 5: Maintaining a strong focus on patient safety Sustainability strategy 3.
Protecting the environment We have three priority areas aligned with our Purpose and business strategy that allow We follow the science to Commitment 1: Managing our impact on the environment, across us to have the most impact on benefiting our protect the planet.
all our activities, with a particular focus on greenhouse gas patients, our business, broader society and emissions, waste and water use See from page 43.
Commitment 2: Ensuring the environmental safety of our products the planet.
We determined these priorities, along with a set of foundational areas, Our focus on these three Ensuring that diversity in its broadest sense is reflected in through a structured sustainability materiality areasdoes not diminish our leadership and people strategies assessment that engaged external and our commitment to the Embedding a consistent approach to human rights across our internal stakeholders.
We measure our foundational areas of worldwide activities our sustainability agenda.
Promoting the safety, health and wellbeing of all our people worldwide progress towards our objectives through Building a robust talent pipeline to support our future growth annual and long-term targets.
Investing in community growth Learn more in our 2017 Sustainability Report available on our website, www.
Benchmarking and assurance Recognition of our work in sustainability DJSI Named in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices Attained industry best scores for: Codes of Business Conduct, Labour Practice Indicators, Climate Strategy, Policy Influence and Health Outcome Contribution CDP Climate A List Among the top 5% of companies participating in CDPs climate change programme in recognition of our strategy and actions to reduce emissions and mitigate climate change Water A List Among the top 10% of companies participating in CDPs water stewardship programme for our commitment to transparency around environmental risks and demonstration of pursuing best practice We are one of only 25 companies worldwide to be included on the AList for both climate and water in 2017.
We are one of only 13 companies worldwide on both A lists for two consecutive years ISAE3000 Assured Bureau Veritas has provided independent external assurance to a limited level in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE3000, and in accordance with ISAE3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements for the sustainability information contained within this Annual Report and Form 20-F F or more information, please see Sustainability: supplementary information on page 227 and the letter of assurance on the Sustainability pages on our website, www.
38 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science help people with respiratory disease in Asia Healthy Lung Asia The overall objective of Healthy Lung Asia is to raise the profile of respiratory disease with policy makers and build health system capacity to support future access to healthcare.
Our three-pillar approach includes: Partnerships and awareness: Sustainability governance Young Health Programme Convene national taskforces to raise Sustainability governance frames the way we awareness of address health system We also promote awareness and prevention changes needed to improve outcomes.
Genevive Berger, a Non-Executive of NCDs to reduce their burden and cost.
Understanding and skills: Develop Director, oversees the implementation of our To that end, we continue to develop our Young medical education materials with sustainability matters on behalf of the Board Health Programme YHP, a global disease a clear objective of spreading of Directors.
Beginning in 2017, every member evidence-based practice at scale.
prevention programme with a focus on youth.
Capacity and access: Holistic, of the SET is accountable for a specific Through YHP, we invest in on-the-ground partnership-driven interventions in sustainability initiative.
programmes, advocacy, and research and selected countries to resolve issues evidence generation to address this global of infrastructure, education or access.
Our Sustainability Advisory Board SAB, health issue.
2017 was the seventh year of So far, we have signed three Memoranda is comprised of five SET members and four our commitment to YHP and, during the year, of Understanding, including with Vietnam external sustainability experts.
It met once in we reached nearly 427,000 young people and Indonesia, formed 14 partnerships, 2017 to guide strategic direction, recommend with health information on NCDs and risk educated some 2,000 GPs, screened more opportunities and provide external insight and than 10,000 patients, and committed to behaviours and trained more than 2,800 peer create more than 500 respiratory centres.
Throughout the year, we engaged educators.
We launched a new three-year with employees and external stakeholders programme in Brazil and renewed multi-year including investors, Ministries of Health, commitments in Germany and Portugal.
Our activities demonstrate how we are We also worked collaboratively with our working to improve access to healthcare by advocacy partners, NCD Child and Rise Up 1.
Broadening access to healthcare making our medicines available and more Together, to ensure youth health needs were Marketplace on page 8 demonstrates affordable to people on a commercially represented at the World Health Assembly, the burden of NCDs with 40 million deaths and socially sustainable basis.
We are also the UN and in national advocacy efforts.
annually which disproportionately affects developing health systems infrastructure lowand middle-income countries where by building capacity to help improve the Understanding our impact was a primary nearly three quarters of these deaths occur.
underlying healthcare infrastructure and focus of activities in 2017, with publication of In Return to Growth from page 26, we review access to medical treatment.
our first Social Return on Investment analysis.
how, as a business focused on medicines We looked at four YHP markets and calculated for NCDs, we aim to meet the challenges To address local needs, our programmes a social return of between approximately $6 posed in each of our Regions, particularly are typically governed by their respective and $9 for every dollar invested.
for those patients in Emerging Markets who commercial market leaders.
Due diligence may need help to access our medicines and includes setting and measuring performance For more information on YHP, please see where barriers to healthcare are not always towards targets.
We have internal targets page 201. pricing related.
and our annual Sustainability Report lists our Further information on YHP can be found on its external targets and progress.
third-party assurance for these external targets and our reporting in this Annual Learn more in our 2017 Sustainability Report, Report is assured by Bureau Veritas on www.
for more information please see page 227.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 39 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued can Science help people with hypertension in Africa Healthy Heart Africa Since launching in Kenya in October 2014 and in Ethiopia in 2016, Healthy Heart Africa HHA has: 2.
Ethics and transparency The new Code includes four high-level Conducted 5.7 million blood pressure screenings in the community and in Code of Ethics and policy framework Global Policies covering Science, Interactions, healthcare facilities.
We are committed to employing high ethical Workplace and Sustainability.
During 2018, Trained over 5,000 healthcare standards when carrying out all aspects of these new, high-level Global Policies will workers, including doctors, nurses, our business globally.
In 2017, we launched continue to be complemented by underlying community health volunteers and pharmacists to provide education a Code of Ethics the Code which replaced Standards and will replace the current suite of and awareness, screening and our Code of Conduct.
The Code is based on 12 existing global policies which are published treatment services for hypertension.
our company Values, expected behaviours on our website, www.
Activated 675 healthcare facilities and key policy principles.
It empowers Our policy framework also includes additional in Africa to provide hypertension services, including the establishment employees to make decisions in the best requirements at the global, local and business of a secure supply chain for low-cost, interests of the Group and the people we unit level to support employees in their high-quality antihypertensive serve, now and in the long term, by outlining daily work.
our commitments in simple terms and Identified over one million people living with high blood pressure.
focusing on why these commitments matter.
Ethical sales and marketing The Code also guides employees on how We are committed to employing high ethical Following the announcement of our to make the best day-to-day choices and standards of sales and marketing practice innovative public-private partnership how to act in a consistent, responsible way, worldwide, in line with our policy framework.
with the US Presidents Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PEPFAR in September worldwide.
There are two mandatory training We maintain a robust compliance programme 2016, we are working to optimise the courses dedicated to the Code: one is for new in our efforts to ensure compliance with all HIV hypertension integration and have starters: the second is the annual training for applicable laws, regulations and adopted extended our relationship with our all employees, reminding them of the key industry codes.
As outlined in Global implementing partner for a further 12 months.
In 2017, 100% of all active Compliance and Internal Audit Services some 300,000 people over the year employees completed the annual training on page 97, our compliance programme and observed an indicative growth on the new Code of Ethics.
is delivered by dedicated compliance in male engagement.
In Ethiopia, professionals who advise on and monitor we moved beyond the pilot phase and screened some 470,000 people adherence to our policy framework.
These professionals also support our line managers locally in ensuring that their staff meet our standards.
A network of nominated signatories reviews our promotional materials and activities against applicable requirements, and audit professionals in Internal Audit Services, in partnership with external audit experts, also conduct compliance audits on selected marketing companies.
Our reporting in this area is assured by Bureau Veritas.
F or more information, please see page 227.
40 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Approximately 34,600 employees are Bioethics and responsible research All our clinical studies are designed and engaged in our Commercial activities and, Our commitment to working in a transparent finally interpreted in-house.
Some are in 2017, we identified six confirmed breaches and ethical manner is essential to achieving conducted by CROs on our behalf and of external sales and marketing regulations or scientific leadership and delivering lifewe require these organisations to comply codes 2016: six.
There were 1,431 instances, changing medicines.
Bioethics refers with our global standards.
most of them minor, of non-compliance with to the range of ethical issues that arise from the Code or supporting requirements in our the study and practice of biological and As of 15 December 2017, we shared Commercial Regions, including instances medical science, and our current Global anonymised individual patient-level data by employees and third parties 2016: 1,729.
Bioethics Policy sets out our global standards from 149 studies with 25 research teams We removed a total of 176 employees and in key areas.
These standards apply to all and responded to 74 requests from third parties from their roles as a result of our research activity, whether conducted external researchers using our portal, these breaches a single breach may involve by us or by third parties acting on our behalf.
We also formally The following sections summarise our to request our clinical data and reports warned 477 others and provided further activities in these areas, and our Bioethics to support additional research.
In 2017, guidance or coaching on our policies to 1,157 Policy is available on our website, we continued our commitment to be more more.
The most serious breaches were raised www.
transparent by expanding patient access with the Audit Committee.
We therefore Our Bioethics Advisory Group BAG is participated in the launch of a new industryAnti-bribery anti-corruption sponsored by the Chief Medical Officer, wide portal at www.
com Anti-bribery anti-corruption is a key element and exists to oversee the operation of the where we provide lay summaries in of our policy framework, with principles Bioethics Policy.
It acts as a source of easy-to-understand language and translate and requirements underpinning the Code bioethical advice to the business, bringing these to the local language for all sites where commitment that we do not tolerate together the subject matter leads for each of a study is conducted.
In 2017, we published bribery or any other form of corruption.
the key bioethical areas, supported by other trial results summaries for 34 AstraZeneca This commitment was conveyed in the experts and specialists.
This initiative led to the Clinical 2017 annual Code training and is reinforced on governance and practice from subject Trial Transparency Office receiving the through anti-bribery anti-corruption training matter leads, including reports of non- 2017 Communication Award from TOPRA, materials made available to employees and compliance with the Bioethics Policy, and a membership organisation for individuals relevant third parties.
advises on whatever actions are necessary.
working in healthcare regulatory affairs, BAG met five times in 2017 and, in this period, for our patient-focused approach to delivering Bribery and corruption remains a business there were no cases of non-compliance with against the new EU Clinical Trial Regulations risk as we launch new medicines in markets the Bioethics Policy.
BAG also considers several years earlier than required.
across the globe and enter into partnerships emerging trends and scientific advances For more information, please see our website, and collaborations.
When working with third that may have an impact, supporting the www.
com, or our clinical trials website, parties, we are committed to working with development of policy in relevant areas.
only those who embrace high standards of Ethical discussions in 2017 included the ethical behaviour consistent with our own.
potential impacts of advances in precision Bribery and corruption risk is a focus of our genome editing, consenting and privacy third-party risk management process, as well issues arising from the use of human as our Business Development due diligence biological samples, and the implications Clinical trials by region % procedures.
It is also a focus of our monitoring of research into human-animal chimaeras.
Global Compliance Small molecule studies 50% monitors a range of Commercial activities Clinical trials associated with bribery and corruption risk, We believe that transparency enhances Europe 13% and the majority of marketing company the understanding of how our US Canada 32% audits include anti-bribery anti-corruption medicines work and benefit patients.
com, Central Eastern Europe 25% we publish information about our clinical Japan 2% Transparency reporting research, as well as the registration and Latin America 10% AstraZeneca is committed to the highest results of our clinical trials regardless of Middle East standards of conduct in all our operations, whether they are favourable for all products and Africa 3% including transparency in how we partner and all phases, including marketed medicines, with physicians and medical institutions.
drugs in development and drugs where In the US, Europe, Australia and Japan our development has been discontinued.
Biologics studies 35% external transparency reporting meets the requirements of the Physician Payments In 2017, we conducted a range of clinical Europe 21% Sunshine Act Open Payments, European trials across regions as shown in the charts US Canada 24% Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries to the right.
This broad span helps ensure Asia Pacific 14% and Associations EFPIA Disclosure Code, that study participants reflect the diversity Central Eastern Europe 24% Medicines Australia MA Code of Practice, of patients for whom our medicines are Japan 5% and the Japanese Pharmaceutical intended and identifies the patients for Latin America 11% Manufacturers Association JPMA Disclosure whom the medicine may be most beneficial.
Middle East Code, as well as applicable local and state Our global governance process provides and Africa 1% transparency requirements.
the framework for ensuring a consistent, high-quality approach worldwide.
Protecting participants throughout the trial process is a priority and we have strict procedures to help ensure participants are not exposed to unnecessary risks.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 41 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Patient safety In rare circumstances, we may use human Technology has not yet advanced to the One of our core values is to put patients first fetal tissue hFT or human embryonic stem stage where animal use can be eliminated and and, by detecting, assessing, understanding cells hESC.
In these circumstances, an animal studies therefore remain a small, but and preventing adverse effects or any other internal review of the scientific validity of the necessary, part of the process of developing drug-related problems not identified during the research proposal will be conducted and new drugs.
We are alert to the issues around development process, our pharmacovigilance permission to use the tissue will be granted the use of animals, and are working constantly processes and systems seek to minimise only when no other scientifically reasonable to improve the quality of our animal studies.
the risks and maximise the benefits of our alternative is available.
We also insist our medicines for patients.
third party vendors adopt the highest ethical Supply chain management standards and we rigorously assess the ability Every employee and contractor who sources For all our medicines, under development of tissue suppliers to meet our quality and goods and services on behalf of AstraZeneca as well as on the market, we have systems in ethical expectations.
We are committed to is expected to follow responsible business place for identifying and evaluating possible minimising the use of fetal tissue by exploring processes, which are embedded into adverse drug effects.
our newly updated Global Standard for the safety profile of our medicines is provided the Procurement of Goods and Services.
to regulators, healthcare professionals and, In 2017, one research proposal that includes All our procurement professionals receive where appropriate, patients.
Each medicine use of cells derived from hFT has been detailed training on responsible procurement.
has a dedicated safety team, which includes a approved, resulting in two projects being With most of our API manufacturing responsible global safety physician and one or in progress as at 31 December.
In addition, outsourced, we need an uninterrupted more pharmacovigilance scientists.
Marketing three projects using three different hESC supply of high-quality raw materials.
companies have assigned patient safety lines or derived cells have been approved.
We therefore place great importance on our managers in place.
global procurement policies and integrated Animal research risk management processes.
We purchase Our Chief Medical Officer is accountable for We are committed to helping the public materials from a wide range of suppliers the benefit and risk profiles of our products, understand the continuing need for animals and work to mitigate supply risks, such as providing medical oversight and enforcing risk in research, and our approach to replacing, natural or man-made disasters that disrupt assessment processes that help us make reducing, and refining our use of animals supply chains or the unavailability of raw efficient and informed decisions about patient the 3Rs.
Contingency plans include using safety.
As part of our commitment to patient dual or multiple suppliers where appropriate, safety, in 2017, we developed a new safety We share our 3Rs advances externally maintaining adequate stock levels and signal management platform to provide through presentations at international working to mitigate the effect of pricing consolidated risk oversight for all our products conferences and workshops, and contribute fluctuations in raw materials.
The platform supports comprehensive to the work of organisations and societies awareness of the signals, intelligent analysis supporting the 3Rs around the world.
We also seek to manage reputational risk.
of their impact, and enables appropriate Internally, our Council for Science and Animal Our ethical standards are integral to our measures to reduce risks to patients.
Welfare C-SAW leads initiatives on the 3Rs, procurement and partnering activities and openness about our use of animals, and we continuously monitor compliance through Research use of human biological samples builds a culture of care in the way we conduct assessments and improvement programmes.
The use of human biological samples, our research.
For example, C-SAW runs a We work only with those suppliers whose such as solid tissue, biofluids and their global awards scheme and also promotes standards of ethical behaviour are consistent derivatives, plays a vital role in developing global learning and continuing professional with our own.
We will not use suppliers who a deeper understanding of human diseases development opportunities for employees are unable to meet our standards.
Our Global and their underlying mechanisms, which working with animals.
C-SAW acts as the Standard Expectation of Third Parties is helps us develop effective, new and governance and oversight body for the published on our website, www.
use of animals in research and development, com sustainability.
providing assurance to senior leaders on our When we conduct this important research, responsible use of animals.
To achieve this, we have an established process we maintain policies and processes to ensure for third party risk management.
This process that we comply with the law, meet regulatory Animal research use varies depending on assesses risk based upon defined criteria.
concerns and maintain ethical standards.
many interrelated factors, including our These include risks related to bribery and We place an emphasis on informed consent amount of pre-clinical research, the nature corruption, data privacy, the environment and that protects the rights and expectations of and complexity of the diseases under wages.
Each step of the process provides donors and families throughout the process of investigation and regulatory requirements.
an additional level of assessment, and we our acquisition, use, storage and disposal of We believe that without our active conduct more detailed assessments on those the samples.
Protecting the confidentiality of commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use would relationships identified as higher risk.
Through a donors identity is of the utmost importance, be much greater.
In 2017, animals were used this risk-mitigation process, we seek to better and a key part of our process includes the for in-house studies 131,615 times 2016: understand the partners risk approach and coding of biological samples and associated 193,451.
In addition, animals were used seek to ensure the partner understands and data including genetic data.
on our behalf for CRO studies 28,545 times, can meet our standards.
In total, over 97% were total of 7,198 assessments in 2017, taking our rodents or fish.
total number of assessments to 25,493 since we established this process in May 2014.
Of the 2017 assessments, 1,888 were in the Asia Pacific region, 2,227 in Europe and 2,038 in the Americas.
The remaining 1,045 assessments relate to global suppliers and those based in the Middle East and Africa.
42 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science heat with 100% renewable electricity Renewable energy In 2017, we began using sustainable heat pump technology at our Gothenburg, Sweden site.
This technology is highly efficient and electrifies some of the In 2017, we conducted 41 audits on high-risk Managing our impact on natural resources sites heat demand, with the estimated potential to replace up to 60% of suppliers, seeking to ensure that they Our 2017 natural resource targets against a the sites natural gas consumption, employ appropriate practices and controls.
2015 baseline included: thereby reducing the sites CO 2 Ten percent of these suppliers met our footprint.
Coupled with the site expectations, with a further 90% implementing reducing operational greenhouse transitioning to renewable electricity in 2016, the investment is estimated to improvement plans to address minor instances gas footprint as approved by the Science save approximately 2,500 tonnes of CO 2 of non-compliance.
Through our due diligence Based Target initiative equivalent per year.
process, we rejected 12 suppliers because of reducing energy consumption by 2% reputational concerns.
to 1,761,081 MWh reducing waste generation by 4% to 3.
Protecting the environment 29,328 tonnes 3 We follow the science to protect the planet reducing water use by 4% to 4.16 million m. by managing our impact on the environment across all our operations.
Our current The table overleaf provides data on our global Global Safety, Health and Environment SHE greenhouse gas emissions, energy use, waste Policy is the overarching document for our production and water consumption for 2017. environmental management system.
It applies The data coverage includes 100% of our to all functions and locations and is supported owned and controlled sites globally.
Regular by global standards and procedures that review of the data is carried out to ensure establish mandatory requirements in key risk accuracy and consistency.
We monitor and manage performance to changes in the data for previous years.
through comprehensive assurance The data quoted in this Annual Report are programmes that include performance generated from the revised data.
To support reporting, internal auditing and an annual the achievement of our targets, a resource management review.
We are on track to efficiency capital fund has been in place since 100% deliver our 2016 to 2025 environment targets.
2015 to invest in projects at sites.
In 2017, approximately $19 million 2016: $25 million 100% of all active employees was committed to resource efficiency completed training on new Code projects at our manufacturing and R&D of Ethics sites, and a further $20 million has been committed for 2018.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 43 Business Review Be a Great Place to Work continued Greenhouse gas reduction Waste management Operational greenhouse gas We are working to reduce our greenhouse Waste management is another key aspect of footprint emissions tonnes COe gas emissions by, among other things, our commitment to minimise environmental 2017 1,658,548 investment in improving energy and fuel impact.
In 2017, we targeted a 4% reduction 2016 1,659,071 efficiency and pursuing lower-carbon in waste generation from our 2015 baseline.
2015 1,777,190 alternatives to fossil fuels, utilising a hierarchy In 2017, our total waste was 31,222 metric approach of .
Although During 2017, we made progress towards our large waste reduction projects came online in 1,658,548 tonnes COe verified science-based targets for Scope 1 2017, bringing savings of equivalent to 2.5% of and Scope 2 emissions through increased our total waste footprint, our waste reduction fuel efficiency of our commercial sales fleet, target has been missed due to increasing Energy consumption MWh reduced energy consumption at our sites, activity across our site network.
While waste 2017 1,742,325 and procurement of electricity from certified prevention is an essential goal, we seek to 2016 1,785,250 renewable sources increasing to represent maximise treatment by material recycling 2015 1,805,071 63% of total electricity imports.
Our total and avoiding landfill disposal when prevention Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been is impractical.
reduced by 29% from our 2015 baseline.
1,742,325 MWh We have continued to make progress on our Water use reduction % certified renewable 2017 27% science-based targets for Scope 3 emission We recognise the need to use water 2016 25% sources through continued achievement in responsibly and, where possible, to minimise 2015 6% switching freighting of goods from air to sea, water use in our facilities.
In 2017, we targeted reduced business air travel, and improved a 4% reduction from our 2015 water use.
3 accounting of our Scope 3 footprint that will In 2017, our water footprint was 3.89 million m, Waste production tonnes lead to future efficiency improvements.
Water reduction and reuse 2017 31,222 projects throughout our site network have 2016 31,571 Our pMDI inhaler therapies rely on improved the efficiency of water use across 2015 30,550 hydrofluoroalkane HFA propellants, which our operations.
During 2017, our major sites affects our Scope 3 greenhouse gas footprint.
and those in water-stressed areas maintained While HFAs have no ozone depletion potential or completed Water Conservation Plans to 31,222 tonnes and a third or less of the global warming ensure we are managing our water risks and potential than the chlorofluorocarbons they to facilitate sharing of best practice in water replace, they are still potent greenhouse stewardship around our site network.
During 2017, we continued to explore 2017 3.89 practical opportunities to reduce the climate Ensuring the environmental safety 2016 4.01 impact of these devices during production of our products 2015 4.34 and use while continuing to fulfil patient needs, We are committed to ensuring effective including the launch of a new pMDI device environmental management of our products that uses an HFA propellant with less than from pre-launch through to product 3.89 million m half the global warming impact of our legacy end-of-life.
We work at all stages of a portfolio.
Including emissions from patient medicines life-cycle from the design of active use of our inhaler therapies, our operational pharmaceutical ingredient API production greenhouse gas footprint totalled 1,658,548 and formulation processes, devices and metric tonnes in 2017, a reduction of 7% from packaging through distribution, patient use discharge of our APIs in a responsible our 2015 baseline.
We aim to lead our industry manner to ensure that we do not exceed in understanding and mitigating the effects of the safe discharge standards set for our F or more information on carbon reporting, please see pharmaceuticals in the environment PIE.
own manufacturing sites and those of key Sustainability: supplementary information on page 227. suppliers.
We review compliance with As part of our progress towards our 2025 these safe discharge standards annually.
Energy use environmental targets, our 2017 product Using a concept called ecopharmacovigilance, We recognise the need to reduce our demand environmental safety targets included: we review emerging science and literature for for energy in the first instance, maximise new information that might change the way we the efficiency of the energy we do use, and Safe API discharges for AstraZeneca assess and manage any environmental risks where feasible substitute our energy use with sites 100% and globally managed associated with our products through patient renewable sources.
In 2017, we targeted a 3% first tier suppliers 90%.
Target met use and API production.
reduction in total energy consumption from safe API discharges confirmed.
In 2017, our energy use Management of PIE through our We also conduct collaborative research to was 1,742 GWh, a reduction of 3%.
understand the fate, behaviour and impact of made further progress on our target to source Target met programme delivered.
In 2017, we co-authored 14 peer-reviewed publications we procured certified zero emission power Pharmaceuticals in the environment to enhance our knowledge of the risks equivalent to 63% of total consumption and An estimated 98% of pharmaceuticals associated with this emerging issue.
generated a further 11,874 MWh of renewable get into the environment as a result of Further information on our efforts in this area, including energy on our sites.
patient use excretion or improper disposal.
environmental risk assessment data for our medicines, While API discharge from production is only a is available on our website, www.
com small proportion of the environmental burden, sustainability .
it is the part we as an industry can deal with directly.
We manage the manufacturing 44 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science excite children STEM learning and careers Bahija Jallal, President, MedImmune and Executive Vice-President, AstraZeneca, works with a student on the MDBio Mobile eXploration lab, Americas largest, most advanced mobile laboratory.
MXLab is custom-designed to expand new technology and laboratory science experiences to pique students interest in science, technology, engineering Community investment and mathematics STEM learning Non-Financial Reporting Regulations and careers.
Under sections 414CA and 414CB of the Wherever we work in the world, we aim to Companies Act 2006, as introduced by make a positive impact on our communities.
Dr Jallal was the Healthcare the Companies, Partnerships and Groups Our Community Investment Contributions Businesswomens Association HBA Accounts and Non-Financial Reporting Standard outlines our global areas of focus 2017 Woman of the Year.
Regulations 2016, AstraZeneca is required to include, in its Strategic Report, and provides guidance to ensure a consistent, a non-financial statement containing certain transparent and ethical approach around information.
Information required by these the world, based on local need.
Our global Regulations is included in Business model community investment activities are focused Our global disaster relief partners are the and life-cycle of a medicine from page 14, Strategy and Key Performance Indicators on healthcare in the community and British Red Cross, Americares, Direct Relief from page 17, and the Business Review supporting science education.
They include International and Health Partners International from page 34. financial and non-financial community of Canada.
In 2017, we funded the deployment sponsorships, partnerships and charitable of the British Red Cross Mass Sanitation Unit donations.
In 2017, we gave more than to Northern Uganda where it provided more $25 million 2016: $39 million through our than 13,000 refugees with access to a safe community investment activities to more than latrine and reached more than 19,000 900 non-profit organisations in 61 countries, refugees with hygiene promotion activities.
which includes more than $4 million 2016: We also responded to appeals for the South $20 million for product donations that were Asian Floods and support for the Atlantic given in support of public health needs and Hurricane Season.
In addition to these community investments, we also donated more than In 2017, we donated products across multiple $401 million 2016: $468 million of medicines therapeutic areas to 17 countries to respond in connection with patient assistance to public health needs and disaster relief.
programmes around the world, the largest This includes pre-positioning products of which is our AZ&Me programme in the US.
in partner warehouses to allow for quick For more information on our patient deployment which was a critical part of our assistance programmes, please see partners response efforts during the Atlantic from page 28, and on our Young Health Hurricane Season.
Programme, a global disease prevention programme with a focus on youth, please Making a positive impact on our communities see pages 39 and 201. is also about volunteering.
We encourage our employees to volunteer and support their efforts with one days leave for volunteering.
In 2017, our employees volunteered more than 29,000 hours on community projects in countries around the world.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business Review 45
