BUSINESS REVIEW UK shopping centres Like-for-like NRI Leasing vs ERV growth 1.8% 8% 2016: 2.4% 2016: 6% Occupancy Retail sales growth 98.1% -2.7% 2016: 97.8% 2016: -1.1% Leasing activity Footfall growth Our high-quality centres have had a strong 13.4m 0.4% year in 2017 with record leasing volumes.
2016: 9.0m 2016: -0.5% Mark Bourgeois, Managing Director UK and Ireland Net rental income Sector overview In 2017, like-for-like net rental income increased by 1.8%.
All UK centres Our high-quality centres are differentiated by their scale, catchment generated growth with the exception of Bullring, Cabot Circus and Union size and superior brand mix.
The latter includes large anchor tenants Square, for which 2016 income was boosted principally by turnover rent, andflagship stores for international brands.
surrender premiums and backdated rent reviews respectively.
Net income Not all retail is equal and not all locations are well placed to support from car parks fell on a like-for-like basis due to a combination of the the future needs of brands.
The role of expert operators is more partial closure at some centres to facilitate refurbishment works, a more significant than ever before to successfully differentiate venues with a general fall in transaction volumes and increased business rates.
mix of retail formats, events, dining and leisure.
Therefore, occupiers are increasingly choosing our type of well-invested, high-footfall Occupancy and leasing locations to support their growth and multichannel strategies.
Occupancy levels continued to be high at 98.1% with the majority of centres showing a reduction in vacancy over the year.
At 31 December Information on our strategy, the economic and consumer backdrops 2017, tenants in administration accounted for only 16 units in the and consumer trends as they impact the UK shopping centre portfolio portfolio, representing 0.3% of the Groups passing rents, and 12 of is set out in the Letter from the Chairman, Our Business Model, the those units continued to trade.
Administrations provide the Chief Executives Review, the Overview of Our Market and Our opportunity to improve the tenant mix at our centres through the Strategy on pages 4 to 11 and 13 to 17. introduction of new brands.
Our portfolio Strong demand from tenants underpinned significant leasing progress Our UK shopping centres are within, or close to, highly populated city in 2017, with 181 leases contracted, representing 13.4 million of centres in England and Scotland and together the portfolio 2 annual rental income and 52,400m.
In respect of principal leases, 2 accommodates more than 1,000 tenants in 820,000m of space.
rents were secured at 8% above December 2016 ERVs and 6% above Catering and leisure brands occupy around13% of the space at our previous passing rents.
centres, an increase ofa third over the last five years.
Leases signed in 2017 with international brands, premium operators and new food and beverage providers have broadened the offer at our centres.
Key leasing deals concluded during the year included: New brands secured at Bullring, including Russell & Bromley, Coach and Volkswagens first UK shopping centre store: Flannels and Tim Hortons opened their first Scottish stores atSilverburn: At Cabot Circus, an upsized Oliver Bonas and the first Department of Coffee and Social Affairs outside London: The trend at Brent Cross for retailers to seek additional space has continued, with major operators, including Zara and JD Sports, upsizing their stores: and Lettings to restaurant operators Mowgli, Tasty Plaice and Cabot Circus, Bristol Comptoir Libanais at Grand Central include some portfolio firsts.
28 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Our creative approach to asset management is illustrated by the reconfiguration of the former department store at Highcross, Leicester, further details of which are set out in the case study opposite.
Since the year end we also announced that Next and River Island have chosen to relocate from Broad Street, Reading and significantly increase their physical presence at The Oracle as part of a major enhancement of the centre.
Product Experience initiatives The customer experience at our centres has been significantly enhanced through a range of initiatives formulated through our Product Experience Framework.
Grand Central, Birmingham Further details on Style Seeker, handsfree shopping, exciting events and other Product Experience activities are provided in Our Business Model, the Chief Executives Review, Overview of Our Market, Our Strategy and the case studies on pages 6 to 11, 13 to 17 and 20 to 27.
Creative asset management Sales and footfall and occupancy cost in action Despite the market backdrop and its impact on consumer spending, Work to reconfigure the former House of Fraser store at Hammerson centres have proved to be relatively resilient retail 2 Highcross, Leicester is underway.
On a same-centre basis, retail sales at the UK shopping upgraded space is being created over three floors and three centre portfolio as a whole fell by 2.7%, but increased by 3.0% when units have already been let.
International fashion brand the new extensions at Westquay, Southampton and Victoria Gate, Zara will anchor the refurbished space and JD Sports will Leeds are taken into account.
Benchmark UK retail market sales fell upsize its unit.
The project will also accommodate a new by 3.0% over the year.
Performance by centre and retail category has leisure offer, Treetop Adventure Golf.
The project is been mixed.
Stronger performances from mens fashion, sound, expected to complete in the second half of 2018, with the picture & technology, sports & outdoors and leisure were offset by first unit expected to be handed over in June, and will weakerresults posted by some of the larger mid-range fashion deliver an enhanced customer experience at the centre.
It should be noted that our till-based sales analysis does not reflect the significant additional online sales generated through the halo effect of our flagship destinations.
This aspect of the multichannel experience continues to grow strongly.
The Tyco ShopperTrak footfall benchmark for 2017 was -2.8%, but our centres continued to outperform the index, with the addition of new space driving positive growth of 0.4% for the portfolio overall.
Reflecting lower sales and increased business rates, the occupational cost ratio for the portfolio increased from 20.1% at the end of 2016 to 21.7% at 31 December 2017.
Again, it should be noted that this ratio is calculated from till-based sales and takes no account of the online transactions supported by the stores including click & collect and instore online ordering.
In 2017 we installed two additional photovoltaic arrays at Westquay which is expected to produce approximately 6% of the on-site landlord electricity demand.
COM 29 Business review continued UK retail parks Like-for-like NRI Leasing vs ERV growth -2.5% 11% 2016: 2.4% 2016: 4% Occupancy Footfall growth 99.4% - 0.4% 2016: 98.6% 2016: 2.2% Leasing activity Our record low vacancy, strong retailer 6.3m demand and positive visitor feedback 2016: 4.9m demonstrate the attractiveness of our modern parks portfolio.
Andrew Berger-North, Director, UK Retail Parks Sector overview Retail parks tend to be situated in out-of-town locations and offer efficient and flexible space formats with units generally larger and rents per square metre lower than those in shopping centres.
Better-located parks are adjacent to major trunk roads, making them easily accessible by car, and offer free parking.
We have chosen to operate shopping parks, hybrid parks and key homeware parks where occupational demand is strongest.
Retailer demand for space remains high, particularly in respect of the DIY, homeware and furnishing sectors.
Retailers with expansion plans includeFabb Sofas, Oak Furniture Land, Sofology, ScS, TapiCarpets and Wren Kitchens.
Discounters including B&M, Iceland Food Warehouse, Aldi and Lidl are rapidly increasing their presence at Elliotts Field Shopping Park, Rugby retail parks.
Fashion retailers are also keen to establish new stores at retail parks to benefit from a cost-effective way of filling gaps in their store footprint between city centres and large regional shopping centres.
This trend is leading to improved tenant fit-outs, greater interaction with retailers The new retail park at Elliotts Field, multichannel strategies to support click & collect sales and also helps Rugby has achieved the significant to drive a wider food and beverage offer.
Similar to other formats, milestone of being the first BREEAM some clothing brands which suffered profit declines in 2017 have Outstanding carbon neutral retail park moderated their expansion plans.
We collaborated with the design team to ensure that the building was operationally efficient and worked with the tenants to deliver highly energy efficient store fit-outs.
The scheme is designed so that the solar photovoltaic arrays on the roofs generate sufficient clean electricity to meet the regulated energy needs of the site, including the tenanted areas.
30 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Product Experience initiatives Our portfolio Most of our parks now have dedicated customer-facing websites, the Hammerson is one of the largest direct owners of retail parks in the UK and our portfolio comprises 15 convenient retail parks providing content of which has been enhanced to include, for example, retailer 2 offers.
For the next phase of innovation we are reviewing the potential 360,000m and accommodating nearly 300 tenants.
Our parks are intentionally located on the edge of town centres with ample free car to further heighten the customer experience through the provision of uniformed customer service representatives and rest room facilities, parking and are let to a wide spectrum of retailers including homewares, fashion and bulky goods.
along with improved seating areas.
Footfall Net rental income In 2017, there were an estimated 70 million customer visits to our retail Like-for-like net rental income decreased by 2.5% in 2017, the parks, representing a marginal 0.4% reduction on the prior year, but an reduction principally reflecting surrender premiums received in the outperformance of the Springboard Retail Parks index of -0.8%.
Our prior year totalling 3.2 million.
The surrenders resulted from shopping parks performed particularly strongly with footfall up 1.4%.
proactive tenant rotation which has improved the brand mix at a number of parks including Ravenhead Retail Park in St. Helens and We optimise the tenant mix and prioritise investment in our retail Imperial Retail Park in Bristol.
No such premiums have been received parks with the aid of in-depth customer surveys, which also confirm in 2017.
If the 2016 premiums were excluded from the calculation, the the relative success of these strategies.
Our investment in the portfolio underlying like-for-like net rental income would have grown by 2.4%.
is providing a more rounded shopping experience for customers as demonstrated by the change in the Net Promoter Score from 15% in Occupancy and leasing 2015 to 28% this year.
Our consumer research shows that when Strong retailer demand has continued to support high occupancy which overall experience is rated as 4, a customer will spend 81% more and stood at 99.4% at the end of 2017.
ERVs were largely unchanged over the dwell at the park for 11% longer than customers awarding a lower year, with a marginal fall of 0.1%.
At 31 December 2017 three units were experience score.
The current average rating for our portfolio is 4.3. in administration in the portfolio, and one of those continued to trade.
Annual rental income of 6.3 million has been secured from 34 2 contracted leases across the portfolio which represented 33,500m of space.
For principal leases, rents were contracted at 11% above Cyfarthfa Retail Park, December 2016 ERV and 9% above their previous passing rent.
Key Merthyr Tydfil leasing deals in 2017 include Fabb Sofas at Abbotsinch Retail Park in Paisley, Oak Furniture Land at Cyfarthfa Retail Park in Merthyr Tydfil We relocated B&Q from the shopping park to an adjacent site where we developed its flagship Eco Learning Store, and Mothercare at Parc Tawe.
designed and constructed to meet the retailers Net 2 In June we completed the final letting of the 10 million, 8,000m Positive objectives.
The site vacated was then redeveloped extension of Fife Central Retail Park, Kirkcaldy to Oak Furniture into new units accommodating a full-line M&S, River Island, Land.
The project involved the creation of four new units by H&M, Next and Outfit Arcadia.
As a result of this and other reconfiguring the former Homebase unit.
All of the new units were improvements, over the period since 2015 dwell time at the pre-let at rental levels more than double those of the previous tenant, park has risen by 78% and the drive-time catchment and 100 new jobs have been created as a result of the extension.
The overall improvement to the customer experience is demonstrated by shoppers awarding the park At Rugby, we completed the second phase of the development of the successful Elliotts Field Shopping Park.
Further details are provided a Net Promoter Score of 43%.
in the Developments review on page 36.
Cyfarthfa Retail Park, Merthyr Tydfil HAMMERSON.
COM 31 Business review continued Ireland Like-for-like NRI Leasing activity 1 growth 7.4% 1.9m 2 2016: n a 2016 : 0.8m Occupancy Leasing vs ERV 99.7% 10% 2016: 99.5% 2016: n a 1.
Proforma figure assuming properties owned throughout 2016 and 2017.
I am delighted with the progress we have made 2.
in 2017 with implementing our acquisition 3.
Footfall and sales data not available for Ireland portfolio.
strategy, including the completion of the final loan conversion at Pavilions, Swords.
Simon Betty, Director of Retail Ireland July 2016 Sector overview Dundrum Town Centre Dundrum, Irelands pre-eminent The Irish economy continues to prosper, with GDP growth in Q3 2017 shopping and leisure destination, was acquired in a 50:50 joint of 4.2% on the previous quarter and 10.5% compared with Q3 2016. venture with Allianz: Growing employment, driven by inward foreign investment, remains a key driver of economic productivity.
Consumer sentiment continued The Dublin Central development site, which is wholly owned by its upward trajectory in 2017 reflecting the dissolution of fears that Hammerson: and emerged following the UKs EU referendum in 2016.
Confidence Land adjoining the Pavilions shopping centre in Swords, north levels, as measured by ESRI, were 7.3% higher in December 2017 than Dublin, also wholly owned by Hammerson.
at the beginning of the year.
December 2016 Dublins urban population of 1.3 million and significant tourism A 50% co-ownership with Irish Life of the Ilac Centre, located on industry 9.6 million visitors in 2016 underpin demand for retail Henry Street, one of Dublins busiest retail thoroughfares.
space in the city which accounts for over 70% of Irelands total retail September 2017 expenditure and 50% of national GDP.
Grafton Street and Henry A 50% co-ownership with IPUT and Irish Life of Street in the centre of Dublin are the focus for Irelands prime retail Pavilionsshopping centre in Swords, north Dublin.
offer and there are also a number of high-quality shopping centres along the M50 motorway which borders the city.
The wider economy 2 The portfolio provides 220,000m of high-quality shopping centre and the property market continue to grow strongly, although prime space, with over 300 tenants and annual footfall of nearly 50 million.
retail rents remain comfortably below their peak in 2006 7.
A number It also includes 27 acres of development land.
Our share of the total of new retailers have recently entered the Irish market, including passing rent for the portfolio is 46.9 million 41.6 million.
COS, Victorias Secret, & Other Stories, Hotel Chocolat and Smiggle In addition to the centre-based staff who transferred to the Group while numerous other international retailers and catering operators when we secured ownership of Dundrum, we now have a new office at have space requirements in Dublin.
the shopping centre itself which accommodates a team of 12, including Our portfolio three colleagues who joined from the previous Dundrum asset manager, Chartered Land.
We are integrating the Dundrum assets The portfolio was secured through the joint acquisition of a loan portfolio from the National Asset Management Agency NAMA in into our existing UK operating structure to maximise efficiencies and implement our asset management strategy.
October 2015, and the subsequent consensual agreement to acquire the secured property assets from the borrowers during 2016.
The As part of the integration process we have upgraded the IT assets have been acquired over the following timeframe: infrastructure at Dundrum to improve the footfall and sales data collection processes which has paved the way for the introduction in 2018 of the Groups Plus app.
This will align the centre withthe Hammerson standard and provide new insight into the behaviour of our Dublin shoppers.
32 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Net rental income In 2017, the Ireland portfolio generated net rental income of 34.8million.
Income from the portfolio in the prior year comprised a combination of finance income, derived from the property assets secured against the debt, and net rental income for the period for which the relevant assets were owned directly.
On a pro-forma basis, the like-for-like net rental income growth from 2016 to 2017 would be 7.4%.
This strong performance was primarily driven by Dundrum, where additional income arose from the settlement of rent reviews and new lettings as well as active asset management and increased car park and commercialisation revenue.
Garden of Pure Imagination, Dundrum Product Experience initiatives Applying our Group-wide commercialisation and Product Experience Framework strategies to Ireland will generate additional income, enliven the customer experience and drive footfall.
In 2017, initiatives at Dundrum included Volvos Irish launch of its new XC60, pop-up stores for Pippa OConnors POCO Jeans and Nespresso, the Garden of Pure Imagination designed by celebrity gardener Diarmuid Gavin and the Grotto and German Market during the Christmas period.
The food and beverage market in Ireland lags that in the UK and Pippa OConnor opens the POCO Jeans pop-up at Dundrum presents opportunities to increase the provision and introduce fresh catering brands to Dublin.
Occupancy and leasing Tenant demand for space continues to be strong, and the portfolio is Dundrum Town Centre, Dublin virtually fully occupied at 99.7%.
Fallon & Byrne is set to open a new flagship food hall, The high occupancy rate can act to limit fulfilment of demand: delicatessen and restaurant at Dundrum Town Centre, nevertheless we have a clear leasing strategy to deliver rental growth significantly enhancing the centres food and beverage offer.
and enhance the tenant mix and overall experience at each of the 2 Fallon & Byrnes new 900m speciality food hall will be split centres.
During 2017 we signed leases representing 1.9 million of 2 annual rental income and 7,100m of space, with principal leases over two floors, enabling customers to choose from a wide range of the best Irish and international artisan products and brands.
at 4% above previous passing rents and 10% above ERV at 31 December 2016.
Shoppers will also enjoy an al fresco dining option with a new outdoor terrace that will surround the front of the store.
At Dundrum, key leasing transactions included first Irish stores for Smiggle and Hotel Chocolat and Moss Bross second store in Ireland.
To be located in Ashgrove Terrace, Fallon & Byrne will anchor Since the year end, a lease has been signed with Fallon & Byrne as Hammersons Pembroke Square development project.
Plans for part of the repositioning of the catering and leisure offer at the this project are set to reinvigorate a currently underutilised part Pembroke district at Dundrum.
Further details are shown in the of the centre, creating a vibrant new hub for aspirational dining case study opposite.
and leisure concepts at Dundrum with a modern interpretation of the historic buildings providing a unique backdrop.
At Pavilions, despite taking ownership only in September, we signed Superdrug and Butlers Chocolate Cafe.
Since the year end, River Island has committed to a store upsize and we have also contracted with Smiggle.
The Moor Mall South redevelopment at the Ilac Centre was completed, revitalising that part of the scheme.
Five new brands have been introduced to the centre including Regatta, The Works and BBs Coffee.
The project was fully let on opening and generated a rental uplift of 146,000 per annum for Hammerson, more than doubling the previous passing rent.
Since the year end, Smiggle has also signed at the Ilac Centre for its first store in central Dublin.
COM 33 Business review continued France Like-for-like NRI Leasing vs ERV growth 2.6% 5% 2016: 2.2% 2016: 5% Occupancy Retail sales growth 97.9% 0.1% 2016: 96.5% 2016: 3.1% Leasing activity Footfall growth In addition to our active tenant engineering 9.8m 1.6% strategy, the return of indexation will help 2016: 9.0m 2016: 2.8% drive future income growth at our French centres.
Jean-Philippe Mouton, Managing Director, France Occupancy and leasing Sector overview Shopping centres in France have similar characteristics to those in the At 97.9%, occupancy levels were 140 basis points higher than in December 2016.
Occupancy improved at six of our eight centres, UK and Ireland.
Online retailing is not as advanced in France when compared to the UK.
Nonetheless it is growing rapidly and retailers with occupancy above 99% at Les Terrasses du Port, Italie Deux and Nicetoile.
are beginning to focus on their multichannel strategies in a similar way to retailers operating in the UK.
Our retenanting strategy continued during 2017 as we signed 155 leases, representing 9.8 million of annual rental income and French leases differ from those in the UK and Ireland.
They are 2 subject to annual indexation changes instead of five-yearly rent 49,400m of space.
The strategy is designed to improve tenant mix, increase the number of flagship stores, reduce vacancy and deliver reviews and have three or six-year break clauses, although in practice these are seldom exercised.
The retail environment has strengthened during 2017, particularly in For principal leases, the new rents were 5% above December 2016 ERVs and 8% above the previous passing rents.
Key leasing the second half of the year, as the outlook for GDP and employment has improved.
transactions included: strong letting activity at Les Terrasses du Port with 23 new leases Our portfolio signed representing 1.5 million of rent.
This included first lettings We own and manage eight high-quality shopping centres in France in the French portfolio for Coach, Nespresso, Dim and Benetton which accommodate over 900 tenants and attract over 80 million and a combined Micromania Zing store, the latter being their visitors each year.
At 31 December 2017, the three largest centres, Les second store in France Terrasses du Port in Marseille, Italie Deux and Les 3 Fontaines in two new Pandora stores at Italie Deux and Les 3 Fontaines Paris, accounted for over 85% of the value of the portfolio.
2 an upsized 2,355m flagship H&M unit at OParinor Stronger French economic confidence, political stability and the renewal of the UGC cinema lease and the opening of Furet du indexation forecasts will all help to enhance future income growth.
Nord at SQY Ouest to anchor the refurbishment of the centre Net rental income Kusmi Tea at Nicetoile Net rental income totalled 95.3 million in 2017 and on a like-for-like Administrations have reduced and at 31 December 2017 a total of basis increased by 2.6%.
Les 3 Fontaines and Les Terrasses du Port 27 units were in administration.
All of these units continue to trade were the two strongest performing centres with higher gross rental and represent only 0.5% of the Groups passing rent.
income associated with recent leasing activity.
Sales, footfall and occupancy cost Following four years of being flat or negative, indexation has improved in 2017.
In the first quarter of 2018, 70% of leases, by rental income, Retail sales, calculated on a same-centre basis, have increased by 0.1%, will benefit from an indexation increase of 1.6%.
which is 110 basis points higher than the CNCC Index which fell by 1.0%.
Footfall in our centres increased by 1.6% in 2017, compared with a 1.8% decline in the CNCC Index.
34 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Les Terrasses du Port has again traded strongly, whilst the Paris centres continue to experience a more subdued performance as security, Le 13me Art, Italie Deux political and macro-economic concerns have hindered growth, although their performance improved in the second half of the year.
In September 2017, a theatre Le 13me Art opened at Italie Deux to replace a former cinema closed for more than 10 The occupational cost ratio decreased from 15.2% at the beginning of years.
In the heart of Paris, this original cultural venue hosts the year to 13.8% at 31 December 2017.
The reduction is due to the two performance halls 900 seats and 130 seats and increase in sales and also the disposals of Saint Sbastien, Nancy and contains a recording studio.
Place des Halles, Strasbourg see page 50.
Le 13me Art is the first iconic theatre to open in Paris for over 100 years and offers an eclectic programme with shows, events and TV recordings for both a family and international audience.
It is expected to host about 1,000 events per year.
Located at the main entrance of Italie Deux, the new venue improves the visibility of the centre and provides a cultural offer to drive more footfall, especially during weekends.
Since September, the shopping centre has also opened on Sundays.
The former cinema unit was bought in 2016 and completely transformed for a total cost, including acquisition, of 14 million.
Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille After Italie Deux was renovated in 2013, Le 13me Art is a new step in a wider regeneration project for the site.
The Italik project, an extension of the existing scheme, will be Product Experience initiatives launched in 2018 see page 37.
As part of our Product Experience Framework we continue to develop a group-wide approach to enhancing our digital and customer innovation offer, whilst ensuring initiatives are optimised for individual centres.
In 2017, we have: introduced a digital childrens play area in Les Terrasses du Port deployed the Short Edition short story machines in a further five centres worked with the University of Paris Dauphine on a handsfree shopping initiative worked with LEcole Bleue, an architecture and design school, to model initiatives for the shopping centre of the future We are also due to launch our Style Seeker visual search app see page 10 at Italie Deux in the spring.
With further expansion across our portfolio planned during 2018.
At Les Terrasses du Port in Marseille, we have agreed a two-year energy performance contract with two of our supply chain partners, designed to reduce electricity demand within the managed areas of the centre.
The contract incentivises electricity reductions with financial benefits over and above the cost of implementation shared between Hammerson and our tenants.
So far the contract is performing ahead of expectations and landlord electricity demand has been reduced by over 8% at the site.
COM 35 Business review continued Developments In 2017 we have progressed our major schemes, whilst completing a number of smaller-scale retail park projects.
2018 will be an exciting year with Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy extension now on-site and Brent Cross due to start in H2.
Peter Cole, Chief Investment Officer Our pipeline On-site developments Our development opportunities include retail park schemes, major The 16 million redevelopment of Parc Tawe in Swansea is due to developments in London and Paris and a number of other potential complete in February 2018.
Having started on-site in December 2016, 2 projects across the portfolio.
This pipeline provides the opportunity to the 21,400m project has created a modern, mixed retail and leisure significantly grow the business, enhance our assets and create new park with new public realm and improved pedestrian links to the city destinations to meet the future demands of retailers and customers.
The scheme is 91% pre-let with lettings secured including Iceland Food Warehouse, Office Outlet, Tenpin bowling, Mothercare, Expenditure is carefully controlled and we will commit to projects Toys R Us and Lidl.
The redevelopment also features Hammersons only when the level of risk is acceptable.
This will vary for each project second carbon neutral Costa Eco Pod and the first Dennys American and is dependent on a variety of factors including general market Diner in the UK.
conditions, pre-letting, construction cost and programme certainty, 2 funding and financial viability.
Construction of the 8,700m, 44 million extension of the Orchard Centre, Didcot, is on target to complete in March 2018.
Didcots At 89 million, calculated on a proportionally consolidated basis, affluent and rapidly growing catchment will be served by retailers committed capital expenditure was relatively low at the end of 2017, including Boots, Costa, H&M, River Island, Starbucks and TK Maxx.
and represented the cost to complete the on-site retail park schemes, The scheme is anchored by Marks & Spencer, and is 62% pre-let.
land acquisitions relating to our major developments and smaller capital projects within our investment portfolio.
Together with our Good progress has been made on the development strategy at ongoing capital recycling strategy, this position allows the Group to Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy, Paris.
The existing centre has been retain flexibility over the commitment to development and provides refurbished and, following the acquisition of the adjoining Cergy 3 liquidity to fund future schemes.
centre, enabling works commenced in January 2018, with the main works due to start on site in March.
When complete, the project will Completed developments extend the retail area to over 100,000m and create one of the leading 2 In November the 7,900m second phase of development at Elliotts shopping centres in the Paris region.
As part of the wider development 2 Field, Rugby, was completed.
Built on land adjacent to the 17,000m of the centre of Cergy, the project will add 33,000m shopping park which we opened in 2015, the new phase fills a gap in to the existing shopping centre and has a total development cost of the catchment for homewares and is now fully let to retailers 225 million.
The scheme is expected to open in Q2 2021 and is including DFS, Dwell, Furniture Village, Oak Furniture Land and currently 22% pre-let to tenants including Pret A Manger and Vapiano.
Contributing to the Groups Net Positive commitment explained on page 43, this new development has demonstrated its best-in-class sustainability credentials.
Table 15 On-site developments Value 31 December Estimated cost to Estimated annual 2 3 4 5 Expected 2017 complete income Let 1 2 Scheme Lettable area m completion m m m % Parc Tawe, Swansea 21,400 Q1 2018 n a 3 2 91 Orchard Centre, Didcot 8,700 Q1 2018 29 12 3 62 Les 3 Fontaines extension, Cergy, Paris 33,000 Q2 2021 n a 201 16 22 Total 63,100 216 21 1.
Group ownership 100% for on-site schemes.
Incremental capital cost including capitalised interest.
Values are not included for extension projects which are incorporated into the 4.
Incremental income net of head rents and after expiry of rent-free periods.
value of the existing property.
Let or in solicitors hands by income at 22 February 2018.
36 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW within three levels of retail with over 300 shops, restaurants and cafes, Future developments a multiplex cinema and up to 1,000 homes.
The scheme is part of the In each of the Groups portfolio sectors, there are several wider large-scale regeneration already underway in the town and will opportunities, including major developments, with the potential to establish Croydon as the major retail and leisure destination for south significantly grow the business and create modern, iconic retail London.
The partnership already holds 75% of the Whitgift Centre and destinations.
We have continued to progress a number of these the whole of Centrale, the other covered shopping centre in Croydon, schemes over the course of 2017, although we must achieve further which is anchored by Debenhams and House of Fraser.
It is intended milestones before we are in a position to start on-site.
that the remaining land interests required to implement the scheme will be secured later in 2018, utilising the local councils compulsory Brent Cross extension purchase powers as necessary.
Theearliest start on-site could be Substantive progress has been made on the proposed extension and during 2019, subject to finalising detailed design and completing refurbishment of Brent Cross shopping centre in north-west London, agreements with anchor tenants.
Hammersons total future costs for in conjunction with our joint venture partner, Aberdeen Standard the development will be around 650-700 million.
Doubling the size of the existing centre, the project 2 will deliver an extended 175,000m shopping destination for Italie Deux extension north London with a modern and vibrant retail, catering and leisure Having obtained planning consent and agreement with our co-owners, offer, a key component of the regeneration of the Brent Cross 2 we anticipate starting work on the Italik project, a 6,400m extension Cricklewood district.
to Italie Deux in the spring.
The 38 million project will generate The detailed reserved matters planning application was approved in additional annual rental income of 2 million, is 56% pre-let to tenants October and in December the compulsory purchase order was including Pret A Manger and M&S Simply Food and is expected to confirmed.
Agreements have been reached with John Lewis and Marks open at the end of 2019.
& Spencer to anchor the expanded centre, and further pre-lettings are The Goodsyard under negotiation.
The extension will also include up to 150 new retail stores, 50 new restaurants, state-of-the-art cinema and leisure offers, The Goodsyard in Bishopsgate, on the edge of the City of London, is a hotel accommodation and improved public spaces.
Following a 4.2ha site owned 50:50 with our partner, Ballymore Properties.
The competitive tender process, Laing ORourke has been selected as the planning application for a large mixed-use development was called in preferred contractor for the retail extension and, under a pre-construction by the Mayor of London in September 2015 and then deferred in April services agreement, will work with the partners to finalise the design 2016 to allow for further consultation with the GLAs planning officers and procurement for the project.
Tender returns from potential and potential redesign of some elements of the proposed scheme.
This main contractors for the highway works have been received and it is work is progressing and we are now targeting a submission to the GLA anticipated that an appointment will be made in April 2018.
Assuming of the amendments necessary by the end of 2018 to allow the Mayor to Development Agreement staging conditions are satisfied, construction determine the scheme.
could commence in 2018 with completion in 2022.
The London Other schemes Borough of Barnet and Network Rail are bringing forward the new The Group has a number of pipeline schemes which will enhance the Brent Cross railway station on the Thameslink line which is expected overall quality of our portfolio.
These include potential projects in the to open at the same time and provide a new rail connection for the UK adjacent to existing assets in Aberdeen, Bristol, Glasgow and regeneration scheme.
The Groups estimated development cost to Leeds.
Our Irish portfolio provides exciting opportunities at the complete the project is in the region of 475-550 million.
Dundrum estate, Dublin Central and Pavilions in Swords.
Croydon town centre The nature and design of these schemes are fluid and they are at In November, the Croydon Partnership, a 50:50 joint venture with different stages of development.
Progress to delivery is dependent on Westfield, secured a resolution to grant outline planning consent a variety of factors including: planning permission: retailer demand: for the revised plans for the redevelopment of the Whitgift Centre.
The anchor tenant negotiations: scheme design: funding: and financial Greater London Authority GLA has also approved the scheme which viability.
Further details of these schemes are included in the now includes a new Marks & Spencer anchor store incorporated Development Pipeline table on page 187.
COM 37 Business review continued Premium outlets During 2017 both of our premium outlets portfolios have achieved strong sales growth and completed a number of significant improvement projects to enhance the visitor experience.
Timon Drakesmith, Chief Financial Officer and Managing Director, Premium outlets Table 16 Operational summary 1 1 Value Retail VIA Outlets Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2016 2016 2017 2017 2 Brand sales m 2,701 2,504 948 436 3 Brand sales growth % 8 8 13 7 2 Footfall millions 35.4 34.6 29.4 12.7 2 Average spend per visit 76 72 32 34 4 Average sales density growth % 5 6 9 18 5 Like-for-like net rental income growth % 16 8 14 4 Occupancy % 95 96 90 92 1.
Figures reflect overall portfolio performance, not Hammersons ownership share 4.
Average sales density growth excludes assets acquired in 2017 and 2016. and 2016 figures have been restated at 31 December 2017 exchange rates.
Like-for-like NRI growth includes extensions due to multiple tenant relocations 2.
Figures include acquired assets from the date of acquisition.
from the existing schemes into the new phases.
We estimate that the extensions 3.
Sales growth at VIA Outlets in 2017 includes sales at Mallorca Fashion Outlet for have contributed approximately 1-2% to like-for-like NRI growth.
the second half of the year and excludes all other assets acquired in 2016 and 2017.
Sector overview Our portfolio Outlets offer a distribution channel for brands to sell excess inventory Our exposure to the sector, which has increased over recent years to at a material discount to the original price.
Premium outlets are at the be over 20% of the Groups property portfolio, is gained through our top of this sector, providing international fashion and luxury brands in investments in Value Retail VR and VIA Outlets VIA.
The sector an upscale shopping environment, where retailers are able to has many similarities with our directly managed properties and we maintain and protect their brand identity.
utilise the knowledge gained from the sector to enhance the brand experience across our other portfolios.
Over recent years, the European outlets sector has seen both strong sales growth and increasing retailer demand.
The market for We hold interests in the VR holding companies as well as direct discounted luxury and fashion items is attractive for international investments in the Villages.
Details of our investment are shown in tourists, in particular from China, Russia, South East Asia and the note 13 of the financial statements.
Spending patterns of wealthy tourists can be influenced by Since the year end, we increased our investment in Value Retail security concerns and currency movements.
The latter factor through the acquisition of a number of direct investor interests in particularly has encouraged visitors to the UK in 2016 and 2017.
Villages including Bicester Village and La Valle Village, Paris for a There are a limited number of specialist outlet operators in total cost of 76 million.
Following this acquisition we have an Europe, and planning consents for new schemes are often difficult economic interest in Bicester Village, the largest asset within VR, to achieve.
Growth of new space therefore tends to be delivered of50%.
through extensions to existing schemes and brands are attracted to VIA is an outlets joint venture formed in 2014 in partnership with well-managed centres where they can be confident of strong footfall APG, Value Retail and Meyer Bergman in which we have a 47% stake.
Both investments are externally managed, although we have a strong relationship with both management teams.
Timon Drakesmith is a Board member of Value Retail and is Chairman of the VIA Outlets Advisory Committee.
38 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Developments and extensions Value Retail VR 2 The 3,300m extension at Fidenza Village, Milan, which opened in Portfolio overview October 2016, has performed strongly and helped to generate Value Retail operates nine high-end Villages in the UK and Western double-digit sales growth across the whole Village during 2017.
2 Europe which provide over 189,000m of floor space and more The extension introduced a number of new luxury shops including than1,000 stores.
VR focuses on international fashion and luxury Armani, Michael Kors and Prada.
A new Jimmy Choo store also brands and attracts long-haul tourists and wealthy domestic opened in the existing Village in May, its first outlet store in Italy.
The Villages, which include Bicester Village outside London, La Valle Village, Paris and La Roca Village, Barcelona, are ranked among the best outlet centres in Europe.
2 In 2017, the Villages had an average sales density of 15,700 m and Bicester extension generated total sales of 2.7 billion, placing them in the top echelons of the premium outlets sector.
The Villages actively target the growing 2 In October 2017, the 5,800m extension opened at Bicester shopping-tourism market as well as attracting footfall from affluent Village.
The extension is on land adjacent to the existing domestic catchments.
This strategy has been very successful and VR Village, and a key element of the project involved the has delivered annual compound brand sales growth in excess of 13% relocation of a Tesco store in early 2016 ahead of over the last 10 years.
construction works starting in the summer.
Income The scheme has increased the existing Village by over 25% Brand sales growth at 8% has again been strong in 2017.
Bicester Village and added 500 additional car parking spaces.
The project achieved the highest growth rate as it benefited from increased also involved a new enlarged VIP suite, an enhanced food overseas visitors, attracted by the weak sterling exchange rate, as well and beverage offer, improved road access and new as new domestic marketing initiatives.
Performance was further landscaping across the entire Village.
2 enhanced with the opening of a 5,800m extension in October 33 new units have been created, of which 30 were let and see case study opposite.
trading on the opening day.
New brands which opened at the Average sales densities increased by 5%, the strongest performances Village included Christopher Kane, Cowshed and Under Armour.
The extension enabled 11 existing brands to being at Bicester Village and the two Spanish Villages: La Roca Village, Barcelona and Las Rozas Village, Madrid.
Kildare Village, Dublin relocate within the scheme with a number upsizing including a new Polo Ralph Lauren flagship store.
suffered the weakest sales density growth as the extension which opened in late 2016 has marginally diluted densities in 2017.
250,000 guests were welcomed in the weekend after the The strong sales performance resulted in like-for-like net rental opening of the extension and this strong trading continued income growth of 16%, with the strongest contributions from Bicester over the Christmas period.
Village and Las Rozas Village.
The total development cost was 100 million and the project has achieved a yield on cost in excess of 15%.
Occupancy and leasing VRs success is driven by a forensic leasing and asset management strategy which acts to enhance and refresh the Villages and fulfil the customer experience.
This strategy drives sales and recurring footfall.
During 2017, 254 leases were signed, with a total of 125 new brands introduced to the Villages.
Key new stores included five Prada stores including the first store in Ireland at Kildare Village: Polo Ralph Lauren at Inglostadt Village: Chlo at La Valle Village and the only Clarins outlet store in Europe at Kildare Village.
Occupancy across the Villages remained high at 95%.
Occupancy at premium outlets tends to be slightly lower than the Groups other sectors to support proactive retenanting and remerchandising.
VR management continue to develop successful marketing campaigns across the portfolio, including partnerships with brands such as the Paul Smith Stripe pop-ups and the Disney X Coach promotion.
At Fidenza in September, VR co-organised the inaugural Green Carpet Fashion Awards during Milan Fashion week which included the identification and mentoring of new designers.
Also in 2017, the Privilege guest reward programme was further expanded across theVillages.
COM 39 Business review continued Developments and extensions VIA Outlets VIA As well as enhancing the existing centres, VIA has been actively Portfolio overview looking to extend a number of the centres to improve the tenant mix 2 At 31 December 2017, VIA operated 11 outlets in nine European and increase footfall.
In May, a 5,500m extension opened at Batavia 2 countries, providing over 260,000m of floor space and 1,100stores.
Stad Amsterdam Fashion Outlet with 45 new units and increased the The centresinclude Batavia Stad Amsterdam Fashion Outlet, area of the centre by more than 25%.
Key brands included Farinella, Fashion Arena Prague Outlet and Zweibrcken Fashion Outlet on G-Star, Samsonite, Skechers and Tommy Hilfiger and footfall at the the Germany France border.
centre has increased by 15% since opening.
VIAs strategy is to create a significant pan-European portfolio by In November, the major reconfiguration and enhancement of Freeport acquiring existing European outlet centres with strong catchments, Lisbon Fashion Outlet completed see case study below.
focused on mainstream fashion brands and with potential for growth At Mallorca Fashion Outlet a Nike flagship store and two other units through active asset and development management.
Utilising VRs opened in 2017 from space created from the reconfigured cinema.
expertise and brand relationship, the VIA management team have The former Nike store is now being reconfigured to create five new implemented initiatives to enhance each centres appearance, tenant units and the works are due to complete in summer 2018. mix, the provision of flagship stores and international brands, the leisure and catering offers, tourism marketing and overall centre management.
This strategy has delivered strong operational and financial performance since formation and the transition from an Freeport Lisbon Fashion Outlet acquisition vehicle to a leading premium outlet operator has been VIA Outlets acquired Freeport Lisbon Fashion Outlet in successful.
At this date the centre was the largest outlet in Europe by gross area, although due to its size a During 2017, VIA acquired three outlets: Zweibrcken in Germany: proportion of the centre was closed.
Vila do Conde in Porto and Norwegian Outlet in Oslo see page 49 for details.
These new centres enabled VIA to achieve its original At acquisition, the VIA team had identified a reconfiguration 1 billion portfolio milestone.
At 31 December 2017 the total portfolio opportunity by creating a new mall through to a previously was valued at 1.4 billion, of which the Groups 47% share was closed plaza.
The plaza was redeveloped to provide an 600 million.
authentic food experience with outdoor seating areas and the north mall area of the scheme was mothballed.
These Income works reduced the lettable area of the centre by 8%.
Like-for-like brand sales growth was 13% in 2017.
Double-digit growth was achieved at Batavia Stad Amsterdam Fashion Outlet, Fashion A full refurbishment of the centre with enhanced finishes to Arena Prague Outlet, Freeport Lisbon Fashion Outlet and Mallorca improve the overall ascetics of the scheme was completed in Fashion Outlet.
The works also included a new information centre, VIP lounge, childrens play area, redesigned The enhancements made to the marketing strategies to increase entrances and improved car park access.
The total cost of all tourist marketing have been very successful with tax-free sales the works at the centre was 26 million and the yield on cost increasing by over 34% in 2017 and a wider range of tourists now was 11%.
The project has increased the centres appeal to premium Like-for-like net rental income growth was 14%, with strong brands and tourists and transformed the visitor experience.
contributions from Landquart Fashion Outlet and Fashion Arena Sales and footfall have increased by 21% and 7% respectively Prague Outlet.
New brands to the centre include Coach, Furla, Hackett and Tumi which trade alongside existing Occupancy and leasing premium brands such as Armani and Hugo Boss.
Occupancy levels remained high at 90% during 2017.
The strong sales growth explained above reflects the benefits of VIAs management initiatives introduced across the portfolio and 309 leases were signed during 2017, including 115 new brands.
Key leasing transactions included Lacoste at Landquart Fashion Outlet, Coach at Zweibrcken Fashion Outlet, Hackett at Freeport Lisbon Fashion Outlet and Polo Ralph Lauren opened a 1,100m flagship store at Mallorca Fashion Outlet in August.
