28 Business review: UK Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC 2017 2016 Management actions Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 561.5 557.9 drive positive second half Normalised operating profit 70.9 67.3 Normalised operating margin 12.6% 12.1% Restated following the reclassification of Midland Metro as discontinued Overview Following our exit from UK rail in 2017, we restructured management across our remaining bus and coach businesses, combining the senior functions to operate as a combined team.
We therefore present our UK operations together for the first time, as a new Tom Stables combined division.
We have also included the separate bus and Managing Director, UK coach data in this transition year.
and Germany In the UK we employed sophisticated pricing, network efficiency and disciplined cost management to reverse the declines we reported Bus and Coach at the 2017 half year results.
In a challenging year, the division grew UK normalised operating profits 5.3% in the year, with the combined margin improving to 12.6% 2016: 12.1%.
National Express operates both bus and coach services These headline figures can obscure the detail of the particularly in the UK.
In Bus, National Express is the market leader in impressive recovery in both our UK bus and coach businesses the West Midlands the largest urban bus market outside as management action addressed the challenges they faced: of London.
We also run urban bus services in the cities Bus: West Midlands like-for-like commercial passengers declined of Coventry and Dundee.
In Coach, we are the largest by 0.7% in the first half of the year: in the second half of the year operator of scheduled coach services in the UK, they bounced back to record 0.7% growth: operating high frequency services linking more than In Coach, the year-on-year revenues for each quarter were: 1.9% 900 destinations across the country.
The Kings Ferry up Q1 : 2.3% down Q2 : 0.8% down Q3 : and, 2.3% up Q4 and Clarkes of London are long-established providers Q1 and Q2 have been normalised for Easter.
of private hire and commuter coach travel services in the South East.
During the year, we concluded an asset sale and leaseback transaction, monetising the value in one of our coach depots Revenue Normalised operating profit and booking a profit of 2.5m.
561.5m 70.9m m 2016: 557.9m 2016: 67.3m 2016 normalised operating profit 67 Growth new routes 3 Market overview Bus Property disposal 3 The largest five operators represent around 70% of the UK deregulated bus market, with the remainder of the market made Terrorism 7 up of a large number of private operators.
Active competition Cost inflation 11 comes from national and local bus operators, as well as private Cost efficiencies 12 car and rail.
Economic regeneration and environmentally driven Fuel 4 public transport present growth opportunities over the car.
2017 normalised operating profit 71 Increase passenger volumes through investment in vehicles, technology and people through delivering high quality services Operational excellence Market overview Coach Within their distinct markets, our bus and coach businesses have Our Coach business has the only nationwide network of focused on their services and pricing to attract new paying services, with other competitors tending to focus on specific passengers and drive growth the essence of our operational regions or corridors.
Selective competition comes from rail, excellence strategy.
particularly on discounted fares, and from large bus operators and localised services.
Drivers for demand include the level of Bus fare discount to rail, cost of private motoring and environmental friendliness.
Customer satisfaction is also an important driver for 2017 2016 longer-term loyalty through consistent service and high customer Year ended 31 December m m safety standards.
Revenue external 273.8 275.1 Normalised operating profit 36.7 34.0 Revenue growth through competitive pricing, better Normalised operating margin 13.4% 12.4% distribution channels and greater understanding of customers and their needs Restated in relation to the exit from UK rail Market size Bus Market size Coach 4.8bn 300m UK excluding London of contested revenues in the Operates 1,655 buses, focused in scheduled coach market the West Midlands and Dundee Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Business review: UK 29 Our first two West Midlands Low Fare Zones LFZ have successfully The benefit is seen in both the improved online conversion rates, driven bus passenger 4% and revenue growth 1.5%.
In 2017 our up 1.5 percentage points to 18.5% and an App Store rating of 4.5 LFZs covered around 28% of our commercial patronage and continue up from 2.5 at the start of the year.
Our bus business has delivered broadly We have also invested in technology to improve our safety flat revenue overall, while running 1.5% fewer commercial miles.
All our vehicles in the UK are fitted with Lytx DriveCam This translates to an improved revenue per mile in the West Midlands smart safety cameras.
All of our UK fleet is fitted with GPS technology of 1.6% and overall normalised operating margin growth of 100 allowing detailed speed management and monitoring.
enhanced management and training programmes, we anticipate We have also worked with the Mayor of the West Midlands and these technologies will deliver both improved driving performance Transport for West Midlands to establish a credible plan to tackle and cost savings through reduced accidents.
congestion and promote bus prioritisation.
Demonstrating the importance of strong relationships, we are delighted that our joint Creating new opportunities bid to the Department for Transport for bus lanes on the key With the investment in improved sales channels and on-board Harborne to Birmingham city centre route was successful.
We have ticketing, alongside a continued focus on efficiency and customer already started operating our state-of-the-art Platinum buses on this service, we anticipate organic revenue growth in the UK during 2018. route, with the prioritisation work due to start shortly.
Our experience shows that where we have introduced Platinum buses and faster During 2017 we set a new record for the most revenue raised and routes before, such as Lode Lane, we have seen double digit passengers carried in a day on our coach services: Boxing Day saw patronage growth.
revenue exceed 1.3 million and around 75,000 passengers carried.
Our Glastonbury Festival services also secured their highest ever Coach revenues.
We also won a contract to transport Amazon employees to and from work and have signed new partnerships with, amongst 2017 2016 others, The Jockey Club and BoomTown Fair Festival.
Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 287.7 282.8 Our acquisition of Clarkes has performed well, achieved the targeted Normalised operating profit 34.2 33.3 synergies and demonstrated a resilience to the impact of the terrorist attacks in London.
We anticipate this will continue to grow our Normalised operating margin 11.9% 11.8% presence in Kent and Medway commuter services as well as the in-bound tourist and discretionary travel markets.
We have also taken Our coach operations used RMS to drive core revenues and increase the opportunity to exit operations during 2017 Hotel Hoppa and the passenger numbers.
Our sophisticated real-time pricing generated an Eurolines network that were underperforming.
We made a small incremental two percent of revenue growth in 2017 and helped profit on the sale of Hotel Hoppa and have entered a new joint venture increase core passenger numbers by nearly one percent.
New routes, with ALSA and Ouibus to provide coach services across selected especially to airports, generated an additional one percent of revenue European locations.
growth and when combined with the RMS benefits, helped offset the revenue decline attributable to terrorism -3%.
In 2018, we expect that our sophisticated approach to pricing will drive further revenue growth.
We expect RMS to provide an The coach business also focused on the efficiency of their operation incremental revenue benefit of one percent in coach.
And by moving and removed 3 million route miles from the network.
Combined with away from a traditional annual largely cash fare increase in UK bus, the benefit of RMS already noted, this increased coach occupancy to more agile and targeted pricing including fare cuts we also rates by two percent and drove revenue per mile up by 5.5% during expect to generate revenue growth.
We believe there is more opportunity to come, with RMS likely in both bus and coach by investment in technology to make our to generate a further incremental revenue benefit of one percent in ticketing portals and services easier to access and also encourage 2018 and additional network optimisation opportunities to pursue.
loyalty and frequency of use among existing customers.
We are optimistic about our prospects in the UK for 2018.
Both our UK bus and coach operations have received significant external operational excellence recognition in 2017: both hold five-star British Safety Council ratings, as well as the Sword of Honour, the Germany safety councils highest accolade: both recorded improved customer satisfaction scores 87% in bus, up 1% year-on-year: 86% in coach, Our German rail services continue to perform strongly.
2017 up 3% year-on-year: and, both hold five-star European Foundation saw a significant increase in revenue 20.4% and normalised for Quality Management awards.
operating profit 7.7 million in part due to a recognition of revenues we were unable to include in the 2016 accounts.
They have been profitable from their first full year of operation Deployment of technology and we believe will continue to deliver typical rail margins in The importance of RMS to our coach operations has already been the future.
covered: the importance of new technology in enabling us to innovate further in our bus pricing is becoming increasingly apparent.
As we Our Rhine Mnster Express services grew passengers by look to build on the success of the LFZs, we roll out new ticketing nearly one percent in 2017 despite significant track maintenance products in bus.
From near zero usage at the start of the year, 10% disruption.
We continue to focus on delivering improved of all journeys on our bus services are now by m-ticket.
We have customer service and operational performance and launched introduced the latest contactless ticketing machines to our bus NX-Scout during 2017.
NX-Scout is a WhatsApp group fleet.
Customers in Coventry are already using and benefiting from which provides up-to-date travel information for customers, them, with daily capping a key feature.
These machines will be fully and has the equivalent of around 15% of daily passengers operational across the West Midlands in April, making it the single already signed up.
largest contactless network outside of London.
This crucial technology not only responds to a customer demand, but also Our mobilisation for our Rhine Ruhr Express contracts is well enables us to offer new, targeted pricing through a range of payment advanced, ahead of the first services staring in June 2019. methods rather than the exact change fare that frustrates passengers.
We will continue to submit further bids this year as we look to build our presence in Germany.
com and customer app now provide 66% of all sales revenue up 3% year-on-year.
We therefore invested in 2017 to make them easier and quicker to use.
