24 Business review: ALSA Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC 2017 2016 RMS driving strong Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 663.5 597.3 performance Normalised operating profit 94.9 84.7 Revenue 757.4 731.2 Normalised operating profit 108.3 103.7 Normalised operating margin 14.3% 14.2% ALSA has delivered another strong performance, growing normalised operating profit to 108.3 million up 4.4% in constant currency, increasing its margin and carrying more passengers 313.8 million, up 2.1% while at the same time improving its customer satisfaction Francisco Iglesias score up 4.8% year-on-year.
Chief Executive, ALSA Technology investment has again underpinned these results, with our sophisticated, real-time Revenue Management System RMS particularly important.
We will continue to invest in RMS as it Bus and Coach becomes more sophisticated through time, and complement this with ALSA the roll out of Lytx DriveCam, speed monitoring and further customer service improvements.
ALSA is the leading company in the Spanish road Concession renewal is a key challenge over the next few years, passenger transport sector, and was acquired but with our technology investment and industry-leading customer by National Express in 2005. service, the announced scoring methodology changes which place greater emphasis on quality over price, means we are well-placed.
With over 100 years experience, it operates longThe main concession renewal process has been further delayed and distance, regional and urban bus and coach services we now do not expect any profit impact in 2018 at all, and a minimal across Spain and in Morocco and Switzerland.
However, we anticipate the renewal process will its bus and coach services, the business also operates resume shortly, with some smaller contracts due for re-bid first and service areas and other transport-related businesses, a larger contract delayed at least until later this year.
While we expect such as fuel distribution.
margins will be compressed as new franchises begin, we believe that ALSA is very well placed to compete effectively through the Revenue Normalised operating profit concession renewal process and grow revenues and earnings through the medium and long term.
663.5m 94.9m ALSA is also an increasingly diversified business.
There are already 2016: 597.3m 2016: 84.7m clear benefits from the acquisitions made in 2016, with AlpyBus in particular performing very well, and they are opening new growth Market overview markets for us.
We have augmented these opportunities with further ALSA holds the market-leading position in the regulated and acquisitions in 2017 and again see a strong pipeline of further highly segmented bus and intercity coach market in Spain opportunities to come.
and also operates in four cities in Morocco.
Three levels of government regulation apply in Spain: national long-distance m coach, regional regional coach and city urban bus.
Each 2016 normalised operating profit 104 concession is exclusive to the operator, based on compliance with the public service obligation.
Intercity competition comes Growth 9 from state-backed rail and low-cost airlines.
Bus and coach Acquisitions 2 concessions are awarded through competitive public tender, Other cost inflation 13 typically every ten years.
Cost efficiencies 6 176 concessions: 125 intercity coach concessions, 35 urban 2017 normalised operating profit 108 bus contracts, 16 others Concessional renewal process restarting New contract wins in Spain Revenue management generating passenger and revenue growth in Spain Continuing urbanisation of the Moroccan economy with rapid migration to the major cities Building scale and services in Switzerland Further bolt-on acquisition opportunities Market size Concessions 3.9bn 176 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Business review: ALSA 25 Operational excellence Creating new opportunities Already widely recognised as the industry leader, ALSA consolidated ALSA has also benefited from the acquisitions made in 2016, its reputation with a number of important awards to complement its during 2017.
AlpyBus is in particular performing very well and three record customer satisfaction score.
Among other awards in 2017, further acquisitions have been made to augment this and extend ALSA received: IZOs Best Customer Experience for the Transport our operations in the Geneva area.
This has included both new Sector: and the International Safety Award and Best Initiative in business acquired in the ski-transfer market and also in school bus the Prevention of Accidents from the MAPFRE Foundation.
ALSAs and discretionary travel, as we seek to develop a larger presence Spanish operations also received a five-star accreditation from the in this market.
European Foundation for Quality Management.
A further three acquisitions were made in 2017, adding new services Our excellence has also importantly been recognised in concession in Madrid and Granada to our expanding portfolio.
ALSA won the Madrid-Guadalajara contract remains the same: remain disciplined and target returns above 15%.
on quality, not price: scoring 34 out of 35 on quality while finishing We saw a number of new contracts start in 2017: an up to seven year third on price.
This is both pleasing in itself and significant given the bus and sightseeing train contract in Tenerife: new urban bus services transport ministrys announced changes to the concession renewal in Lorca, Murcia: and bus rapid transit services and sightseeing tours methodology that emphasises quality over price.
ALSA also reversed Moroccos revenue decline in the first half of the ALSA has recently established a joint venture which also involves year by among other actions offering innovative new fares and our UK coach business as well as Ouibus to offer new international products, to deliver growth in the year as a whole.
services across selected European countries.
They have also submitted a bid with a local joint venture partner for a 400 bus contract in Rabat, to consolidate our presence in Morocco.
Deployment of technology RMS is allowing ALSA to target its pricing to the market in a much We will continue to look to drive organic revenue growth in 2018, more granular and accurate manner.
On the long haul routes where as RMS and our marketing become ever-more sophisticated.
it is operational we have seen revenues increase by 3.9%, passenger There remain good opportunities to complement this through further numbers grow by 1.9% and average ticket prices increase by 1.9%, acquisitions and growth in Morocco and Geneva.
It has also helped drive efficiency, with occupancy rates expect any impact on profits in 2018 and only a marginal effect in across ALSA up two percent.
ALSA project that RMS will also 2019 from the concession renewal process, it is very likely to put deliver incremental revenue growth of around one percent in 2018. pressure on margins as it progresses.
However, through our increasingly sophisticated pricing and market diversification, we ALSA also continues to grow significantly its proportion of sales believe we are well placed to compete strongly for our own and made through digital channels they now account for over 40% of other contract renewals and can manage the pressure on margins sales up over 9% year-on-year.
Continuing to draw on best practice to grow revenue and earnings in the medium and long term.
across the Group, ALSA has invested further in targeted, digital marketing and also launched a number of foreign language apps to serve the in-bound tourist market.
ALSA is also using technology to drive up standards and has started installing DriveCam smart safety cameras, aiming to have over 1,000 around 45% of the Spanish fleet by the end of 2018.
Additionally, by the end of March, all their vehicles will have speed monitoring technology installed, supporting a Group-wide campaign to reduce its incidence and enhance driving standards and training.
ALSA successfully piloted a new service ALSACab in Madrid where a customer buying a bus ticket through digital channels could also order a cab trip to complete their journey.
The pilot has been successful with the service already expanded to Santander and ALSA looking to launch it in other cities soon.
