26 Business review: North America Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC 2017 2016 Record year acquisitions Year ended 31 December m m Revenue 1,017.2 877.2 performing well Normalised operating profit 94.3 84.0 Revenue US$1,311.1 US$1,191.3 Normalised operating profit US$121.6 US$114.1 Normalised operating margin 9.3% 9.6% Revenue and operating profit at constant currency, adjusting for Canadian Dollar to US Dollar foreign exchange rate movement in the year Overview of 2017 Matt Ashley North America is now a fundamentally different business to five Chief Executive, North America years ago.
It is consistently delivering growth by embedding a culture of customer service, efficiency and technological investment across the business.
As well as identifying and integrating high-return School Bus and Transit businesses, it is opening new avenues of growth.
We see significant North America opportunity for growth in charter markets, and are developing a new model in major cities where we operate a number of different local services.
Our business in North America has two areas of activity: student transportation and transit services.
$m 2016 normalised operating profit 114 We operate in 38 US states andthree Canadian provinces.
Exchange movement CAD to USD The student transportation business operates through 2016 normalised operating profit at constant currency 114 medium-term contracts awarded by local school boards Net impact of revenue growth 15 toprovide safe and reliable transport for students, and Cost inflation 21 is the second largest private operator in NorthAmerica.
Cost efficiencies 10 Our transit business operates a growing number of transit Weather 2 and paratransit services across the USA.
Merger and acquisitions 13 M&A incentives 5 Revenue Normalised operating profit Operating days 2 1,017.2m 94.3m 2017 normalised operating profit 122 2016: 877.2m 2016: 84.0m The terrible accident in Chattanooga in November 2016 is a tragedy that still weighs very heavily on us all.
We have sought to Market overview learn any appropriate lessons and as described in this section, have National Express is the second largest player in the North accelerated enhanced safety measures such as Lytx DriveCam and American school bus market with a 13% share of the outsourced speed monitoring.
We continue to co-operate with all the relevant market.
Just over a third of the market is outsourced with recent authorities, including the ongoing National Transportation Safety increases in outsource conversion being driven by pressure on Board investigation.
We have donated to local community groups public funding.
This trend is likely to continue as school district and funded a new home being built through Habitat for Humanity.
Typically customers are local We continue to provide support to the families affected by the school boards where local relationships are key and service tragedy.
Last year, we had our local school bus contract renewed delivery is very important.
and received the Federal Motor Carrier Administrations highest safety rating for our national operations.
National Express alsooperates in theNorth American public transit market and is the fourth largest player with around 4% market share.
One third of the transit market is outsourced Operational excellence and there is an increasing demand for accessible public The benefits of our approach so far are reflected in another record transportation services, for fixed route, paratransit and year of normalised operating profit up 6.6% to $121.6 million and a employee shuttle services.
revenue increase of 10.1% to $1.31 billion both in constant currency.
Our North American business has delivered industry-leading margins Bolt-on acquisition opportunities in school bus and transit for a number of years and has had to absorb the ongoing pressure New business growth from winning contracts in school from driver wages for some time now.
In 2017, driver wage inflation bidding season and through new transit contracts increased to five percent, leading to a reduction in our normalised operating margin to 9.3% 2016: 9.6%.
School Bus market size Operates $24bn 22,800 school buses Transit market size Operates $25bn 2,000 vehicles Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Business review: North America 27 We managed to contain this margin reduction through cost discipline Creating new opportunities across the business, including $10 million of cost savings, and our North America remains a very attractive market for further prudent bidding.
We maintained strong retention rates 96% of those acquisitions.
The market is very fragmented with over 1,000 school bus contracts we wanted to retain and achieved an average private school bus businesses in the US alone and we have a of three percent price increases on renewal or retention, or above two strong pipeline of opportunities.
There are very few active buyers percent across the whole portfolio.
Our focus on service and strong in the market and we continue to avoid becoming involved in an local relationships, with customer satisfaction scores again above auction for a business.
90%, has helped deliver these results.
In line with this strategy we acquired another three businesses in This was augmented by our continued up or out strategy, North America last year, all in the last six months.
These were: a to ensure that we focused on only retaining contracts that are significant paratransit operator in Chicago, the US largest paratransit delivering acceptable returns.
We relinquished contracts amounting market: a school bus and charter operator in Cincinnati, Ohio: and a to 190 buses in 2017 and also exited our first transit contract for school bus business specialising in special education services in this reason as well in the year and will maintain this discipline in Rochester, New York.
Together they amount to over 800 additional 2018.
So far, early bidding this year has been very positive, with our vehicles and we continue to target at least 15% returns from these most successful January for contract retention and new business new acquisitions.
wins in four years, and above inflation price increases secured.
Our transit business grew 60% in 2017, with annualised revenues now Number of around $300 million.
This is significant growth for a business that has Change in school bus numbers 2017 bid season buses only been in place for five years.
We won five new contracts in 2017, Regretted losses 856 at a win rate of 33%, and have already secured our first contract win of 2018.
Exited per up or out strategy 190 Acquisition 625 We see the opportunity for significant nationwide growth in the New business wins 797 charter market.
We estimate there to be at least a $1.5 billion Organic growth 15 annualised market available and National Express only captured around 3% of it in 2017.
Change in buses operated for 2016 17 school year 391 We have now developed credentials in a number of sectors within Deployment of technology North American transport.
Drawing on the lessons of our most successful markets, we are building opur presence in the largest Technology investment is playing an increasingly important role cities.
By running a mix of school bus, transit, paratransit, charter in our determination to drive efficiency, improve standards and and employee shuttle services, we have the opportunity to more deliver growth.
effectively offer competitive pricing and operational excellence, alongside developing strong local relationships, and generate new Our investment in DriveCam smart safety cameras is continuing growth centres in North America.
So while we will continue to apace, with 6,351 vehicles already fitted in North America, and a pursue acquisitions in North America, we also see exciting growth target of around another 10,000 installed by the end of the year.
opportunities in these emerging new models.
We are already recording a significant reduction in the cost of preventable accidents after DriveCam has been installed.
Over 90% While the bid season still has some months yet to run, I am of our vehicles also have the necessary technology installed to enable pleased that the early indications suggest that competitors are enhanced speed management to take place.
This is an increasingly being disciplined in their bidding.
Our focus in 2018 will be to recover important area of our safety management, with a high profile internal the wage inflation we suffered in 2017 through a combination of campaign being launched shortly.
disciplined bidding, overhead reductions and further cost efficiencies.
We are also investing in new business management systems to drive improved standards and efficiency.
A new budget management system and a business management system both allow very detailed analysis for local management use but also central review.
Fundamentally, we are aspiring to use these new technologies and systems to industrialise service excellence and cost efficiency across the business, with enhanced central management oversight and assurance married with good local management and customer relationships.
This will not only deliver more, happier customers but also support a relentless pursuit of safety and service improvement, organic growth and cost efficiency.
We started rolling DriveCam out in 2014 and it is now installed in 46 locations.
The results so far show that when comparing the costs of claims from preventable street accidents for the 12 months prior to fitment against post-installation, there has been a 30% reduction.
The business management system has already been used to revise our fleet management systems and has helped identify over 750 buses that can be deployed more effectively.
This alone will provide meaningful capital savings.
We continue to grow our Ecolane acquisition, a market leader in on-demand scheduling technology.
In 2017, Ecolane installed the United States first cloud-based state-wide paratransit software, in Pennsylvania and won 24 new contracts in its specialist field in 2017.
Ecolane is also increasingly becoming a key credential in our other North American bids and we are exploring its broader application across the Group.
