Strategic report Business review Dry cargo The dry cargo freight market performed significantly better in 2017 as seaborne trade continued to absorb Broking excess fleet capacity.
The average Baltic Dry Index was 53% higher in 2017 than in 2016, with spot earnings reaching the highest level in five years.
The capesize sector rates doubled on last years Improving market conditions average, while the panamax sector increased by 76%, the supramax sector by 52% and the handysize sector by 46%.
The stronger rates environment led the path for an increase in period rates and asset prices, particularly in secondhand values.
In a year when the Baltic Dry Index Newbuild deliveries slowed to a nine-year low, following a period of depressed contracting, yet a increased by 42% and the container slowdown in demolition resulted in fleet expansion of sector continued to make gains on 2016, 3% year-on-year.
The improved earnings and market sentiment throughout 2017 led to an increase in new our broking division delivered meaningful orders for delivery from late 2019 onwards: nevertheless the order book to fleet ratio remains growth in both revenues and margins.
After a ten-year recessionary period following the financial crisis, world economic growth exceeded expectations in 2017.
China was once again a key player during a year of economic and supply-side Revenue reforms.
Its industrial production has expanded significantly since its about-turn in mid-2016, steered by the longest upturn in housing sales in more than two years.
In addition, dry cargo demand was 238.9m furthered by robust economic growth and strong industrial production in the majority of other nations.
2016: 233.6m Higher economic growth led to increased energy demand which outpaced the addition of new greener energies and thereby the ongoing reliance on coal.
Segment underlying profit Emerging economies also continue to rely on coal as the cheapest energy form to propel economic growth.
Pollution control has been a high priority, particularly in China, which focused on quality over quantity in 43.9m industrial production, shifting the raw material demand to high quality minerals, which are most 2016: 40.2m economical from Australia and Brazil.
The demand for grains grew alongside world GDP Forward order book for 2018 growth and 2017 witnessed a year of plentiful supply with record crops in most exporting countries.
US$93m 2016: US$112m Directors best estimate of deliverable forward order book FOB Metals, minerals and mines seaborne trade 3.44bn tonnes 22 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information The demand outlook for 2018 is more conservative Demand side conditions improved further in 2017, with uncertainties such as Chinas housing market, with global trade volumes estimated to have geo-politics, adverse weather conditions and stricter expanded by around 5% in the full year to 191m TEU.
At the same time, the The rate of expansion on intra-Asian trades slowing pace of fleet growth still indicates that the accelerated further, growth on North-South trades supply demand balance will tighten by a further 1.4%, bounced back more quickly than expected, and signifying a continued general improvement in rates, volumes on the key Transpacific and Far East-Europe earnings and asset values.
trades also turned in a robust performance.
Containership fleet capacity growth remained The Clarksons Platou dry cargo team has expanded its moderate, despite ongoing deliveries of mega-ships, global presence in 2017, with our offices strengthening with an expansion of 3.7% in 2017.
Whilst some on the back of growing young teams and improving surplus remains in the sector, it appears to be much quality of business concluded.
Our Japan office is now reduced, with 2% of the fleet standing idle at the end established with its first full year of trading.
We of 2017 compared to around 7% a year earlier.
continue to look at key strategic hires to grow and improve our business, as all markets are giving a Sector fundamentals look set to continue improving in positive sentiment against the strong fundamentals.
2018 with volume growth levels likely to be sustained and supply growth projected in the 4% range.
Despite the first contracts for very large boxships in two years being signed in the autumn, the ordering of newbuild capacity remained relatively limited at 0.7m TEU in 2017: the order book now stands at 13% of fleet capacity.
Meanwhile, record levels of containership sale and purchase activity were seen last year and consolidation of the sector remains ongoing with further merger and joint operation activity involving major operators to be concluded this year.
Liner companies still face capacity management challenges and risks remain on the demand side, but in 2018 additional fundamental re-balancing could well support further market improvements.
The Clarksons Platou containers team has benefited Containers from both a rise in sale and purchase and time charter 2017 saw improvements in the container shipping rates, whilst at the same time adding to market share sector, following the severely pressurised conditions throughout our global network.
Our chartering team is of 2016.
Box freight rates made further gains into busy providing on and off market solutions to the liner 2017, having bottomed out in 2016.
Although rates industry as they navigate through a new and on some trade lanes have more recently lost some consolidated environment.
The sale and purchase ground, 2017 saw freight rate levels on a global basis team has concluded significant marquee business average around 20% above 2016 full year average and has provided strong support to institutionallevels, with the SCFI composite index average up backed sales where validation and execution are 27%.
Against this backdrop, charter market vessel paramount.
Our team continues to add to its footprint earnings picked up from bottom of the cycle levels with an operational presence now in Seoul to add to at the end of the first quarter.
Although there has our Singapore, Shanghai, Tokyo, London, Hamburg been some variation across ship sizes, in the main, and Oslo bases.
the charter market held onto its gains or saw further gradual upward movements in the remainder of the year.
The one-year rate for a 2,750 TEU ship stood at US$9,350 per day at the end of 2017, 55% above the level at the end of 2016, whilst the charter market basket index rose by 35% on the same basis.
2017 global seaborne trade Global container trade growth in 2017, in iron ore reaching 192m TEU 1.5bn tonnes 5% www.
com 23 Strategic report Business review continued Tankers As was anticipated, the tanker market weakened further in 2017.
Clarksons published assessments Rethinking broking solutions: ofaverage earnings for VLCCs, suezmaxes and Charter Party Manager aframaxes fell by 57%, 43% and 40% respectively year-on-year, to levels well below long run averages.
Products tanker earnings also fell further, with Clarksons earnings assessments for LR2s and LR1s on the key Middle East-Far East route falling by 39% and 36% respectively year-on-year, to very weak levels historically.
MRs fared somewhat better: nevertheless Clarksons published assessment of average earnings for 2017 was 16% lower year-on-year.
Crude tanker demand growth was restrained by OPEC and non-OPEC production cuts that took effect from the start of 2017.
However, vessel demand did continue to grow, driven by an increase of 0.8m barrels per day in Chinese crude imports and rising crude exports from the US, Brazil and Kazakhstan, as well as Nigeria and Libya which were exempt from the cuts.
The OPEC cuts meant that growing crude oil requirements in Asia were met by increased long-haul shipments from West of Suez.
Products tanker demand also continued to grow, but growth was restrained by the high levels of products inventories that had built up previously and competition between naphtha and LPG in the petrochemicals sector.
In 2017 we focused on responding to the increasing demands from clients.
The development team within our independent software house, Maritech, a subsidiary of Clarksons Cloud, has worked closely with market participants on the specification of a charter party manager tool to develop a better system to manage recaps and documentation.
The first version of this was delivered in mid-2017 to the tanker market and was licensed to the London Tanker BrokersPanel as Recap Manager.
Both Recap Manager in the tanker market, and Charter Party Manager across other sectors, are now being used by clients globally to reduce documentation errors and increase efficiency.
2017 seaborne 2017 seaborne crude oil trade oil products trade 2bn tonnes 1.1bn tonnes 24 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information The crude tanker fleet size increased sharply for a We are now well established in every major tanker second successive year, registering growth of 5.2%, chartering hub, further proof that our global approach following growth of 6.0% in 2016.
Deliveries of new has been successful.
We remain focused on crude tanker tonnage rose to 27.8m dwt in 2017 increasing our volumes with Chinese accounts.
versus 21.0m dwt in 2016, however the weaker freight Our Clarksons Platou tankers team were successful market and higher prices on offer for selling vessels during the year in commencing a working relationship for demolition meant that scrapping rose substantially with two target accounts, proving that opportunities to 9.2m dwt, compared to 1.6m dwt in 2016.
Products still exist to enhance our client portfolio.
Our pioneering tanker net fleet growth fell to 3.9% in 2017, from IT applications, a key part of our overall IT strategy, 6.2% in 2016 and 5.4% in 2015.
However, the are at the forefront of the tankers industry and provide overhang of tonnage that had built up in the previous us with confidence that we can further differentiate two years, combined with slightly below average ourselves from our competitors going forward.
growth in trade, meant that the market weakened further.
Products tanker demolition also increased, with 2.1m dwt removed from the market, compared to 0.8m dwt in 2016.
Deliveries in the MR sector were reduced from previous years levels, but deliveries of LR products tankers rose slightly.
In 2018, crude tanker fleet growth is projected to fall to 3.4% with deliveries declining somewhat and removals expected to increase further.
OPEC and non-OPEC production cuts are due to continue to the end of the year, therefore vessel demand growth is expected to be driven once again by large increases in crude imports into Asia and growth in exports from predominantly the US, Brazil and Kazakhstan.
The crude tanker sector seems likely to remain challenging in 2018, with the market expected to recover from 2019 when production cuts are due to end and fleet growth is expected to reduce further.
There appears to be more upside potential in 2018 for products tankers.
Fleet growth is projected to fall to 2.2%, which is below long-run levels of trade growth.
Robust growth in global oil demand is projected and a further running down of oil products inventories may stimulate greater growth in volumes of trade and vessel demand.
2017 daily seaborne crude and products trade equivalent as a % Vessels in the deep sea of daily world oil production oil tanker fleet in 2017 67% 4,600 www.
com 25 Strategic report Business review continued Specialised products Key trade lanes throughout the chemical tanker market spent most of 2017 in a state of flux.
However, Rethinking broking solutions: in a reversal from the trend in 2016, the second half of Clarksons Gateway the year experienced more buoyant spot markets than the first half.
The Clarksons Platou Specialised Spot Chemical Index recorded a 6.7% increase throughout In the operations arena, our specialised products team the year, whilst the Edible Oils Spot Index posted an were quick to identify a need for a more efficient way increase to finish the year 5.3% up compared to fortheirclients to monitor and manage their fixtures both where it began.
Spot chemical freight rates finished onspot liftings and contracts.
the year on par with the long-run average: a result that Clarksons Gateway was developed in response to this was driven once again by a more active ex-US needwiththe added benefit of being able todeliver transpacific market.
keyperformance indicators for customers toanalyse Period charter and asset deal volume for much of 2017 theirbusiness.
was lacklustre due to the delta between charterers and It is no exaggeration to say that the specialised products owners ideas, however activity increased in the fourth team interpretedthe need very successfully but also quarter.
The stainless steel sector has seen a two-tier thatthey adapted their own business practices toensure market develop, with the gap between older and more thatthis dynamic product deliversreal value totheir modern eco tonnage increasing.
Gateway is now embedded within many clients Overall trade volume growth in the specialised working practices and is available across all sectors of the products market was robust once again in 2017. chartering markets.
Seaborne trade in 2017 is expected to reach nearly 300m mts, a year-on-year increase of nearly 5%.
A combination of vast infrastructure spending, urbanisation rates, growing populations and increasing social mobility are positive mega-trends which continue to drive specialised products trade.
China and India remain two of the key end-user growth countries in our markets.
Based on the first ten months of 2017, China recorded a 5.4% year-onyear rise in specialised products imports, while India showed import growth of 5.8% year-on-year for the first eight months of 2017.
Elsewhere, the development of liquid shale gas based projects in the US and continued Middle East investment are clear signals that both of these regions will continue to strive to meet the chemical demand of these, and other, developing economies.
A renewal in palm oil volumes seen towards the latter end of the summer, as well as a reinvigorated Asian petroleum products market, combined with resilient contract of affreightment nominations, also helped to push volumes upward.
Anticipated 2018 specialised Estimated growth in products seaborne trade, global seaborne chemicals double that of 15 years ago trade in 2017 300m mts 5% 26 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Turning to the other part of the tonne-mile factor, Gas distance growth, we note that this continued to build The second half of 2017 saw little change from on gains realised in 2016.
Chemical tankers on the first half of the year as freights remained under average have travelled 0.5% further per voyage pressure across most segments of the gas carrier in2017.
Newbuilding deliveries, in conjunction with a As expected, average annual growth for the chemical slowdown in the pace of seaborne LPG trade growth, tanker fleet in 2017 decreased.
Net fleet growth in failed to lift freights and the averages for the year 2017 was approximately 3%, and we believe that in slipped below 2016 levels.
In the VLGC sector, a total the medium-term this will reduce further due to a of 20 units were delivered following the slippage of meagre order book and continued scrapping.
The some units into 2018 and two older units were total chemical tanker order book is now less than 7% removed from the fleet.
of the fleet, representing the lowest level for more Tonne-miles continued to hold up as arbitrage than ten years in the sector and the lowest across all volumes from the US into Asia grew again on the major shipping markets.
back of strong import demand, mainly in China, Overall, set against a backdrop of a global economy andas a result of strong growth in US export seemingly firing on most cylinders, continued import volumeswhich rose by almost 17%, despite cargo demand growth driven by China and India, as well as cancellations throughout the year and the delayed positive indications from the US and Middle East in start-up of the Mariner East II terminal on the East terms of new liquid capacity, we believe that seaborne Coast.
However, globally, the annual pace of LPG volumes will continue to grow on an annual basis.
trade growth slowed to 4.7% year-on-year mainly Rapidly reducing net fleet growth in the medium-term, owing to a reduction in exports from the Middle East longer trading distances and continued issues with due to maintenance and OPEC cuts.
fleet productivity remain key determinants for freight As a result of this and the expansion of the fleet, we rates in the future.
Taking this into account, and based saw the benchmark ME Gulf-Japan assessed rate fall purely on fundamentals, we believe that the medium to 8% to a time charter equivalent just below US$15,000 long-term outlook for the sector remains encouraging.
The weakness in the VLGC sector continued The Clarksons Platou specialised products team had to weigh on the size sectors below, as did further a busy year and 2017 once again saw us develop the growth in fleet supply in both the mid and handysize breadth and depth of our offer in this market.
In each of these segments, we saw the fleet the stagnant market backdrop, we have grown grow by 20% and 4% respectively.
Although we saw volume across both spot, contract of affreightment some recovery in ammonia trade, which grew by and period charter markets.
Our investment in broking 1.9% and accounts for a significant proportion of throughout the supply chain from production to midsize trade, the slowdown in the pace of LPG trade end-user has continued, with an approach focused on growth and increased availability of tonnage saw both expertise and scale.
Over the course of the year, the assessed 12 month time charter rate fall by 37% we have also strengthened our service level through ona35,000 cbm unit to US$450,000 per calendar deeper market insight and investment in technology.
This downward correction was also mirrored in the handysize sector, with the time charter rate falling 40% to an average of just under US$410,000 per calendar month on a 20,500 cbm semi-ref unit.
Vessels Seaborne LPG trade in the chemical in 2017, 60% higher tanker fleet than 10 years ago 3,200 90m mt www.
com 27 Strategic report Business review continued Given the growing competition for market share with On the product side, given the increase in production the midsizes, we increasingly saw the handysizes over the last few years, 2017 was expected to see competing with the smaller 12,000 and even 8,000 a noticeable surplus for the whole year.
However, cbm semi-ref units for petrochemical gas parcels, balances for large parts of the year were tighter than occasionally even fixing part cargoes at lower expected as lower than predicted exports from the numbers to secure employment.
Volume-wise, there Middle East Gulf added to price constricted arbitrage was little fundamental change last year compared flows.
The market adapted to the new supply with 2016, and with this added competition from the capacity, the weaker freight market and the impact larger units, we saw rates for the 12,000 cbm and of neo Panama on timing and, towards the end of the 8,250 cbm ethylene carriers drop by 7% and 2% year, the surplus had started to kick in, dampening respectively, despite a negligible change in fleet the market somewhat.
So far, the expected winter supply.
In the smaller semi-ref and pressure sectors surge in pricing and demand has been lower than sub-6,000 cbm, relatively static fleet supply has seen many expected and some question the direction the freight levels bottom out and, in combination with market will take in the coming months.
more positive coastal LPG and shorter haul Our growing investment in commodity brokerage, not petrochemical gas trade, we have seen average East only in terms of volume of trades but also geographical and West trading freight levels for the 3,500 cbm areas, has started to show gains.
We have made pressure units rebound 21% to almost US$210,000 inroads into markets which, until now, were the domain per calendar month.
of other heritage brokers who have dominated those Looking ahead, we are expecting continued growth in areas, the Mediterranean Basin for example.
We also seaborne LPG volumes albeit at a slower pace than saw growth in the number of commodity trades done 2017.
Much will depend upon the utilisation levels out of the US and a number of new companies added through the existing terminals in the US, as there is to our client list.
During the year, we took our first steps only one new terminal expected to start up, and the towards expanding our activity into China, now the timing of this remains uncertain.
Regarding growth major LPG importer in Asia.
New hires are under from other regions, new volumes from South Pars training with a view to transferring to our Shanghai should add to the Middle Eastern balances, although office within the next one to two years, the first time last year these were slow to find their way into the we will have local staff based in China and a move international market.
Ammonia trade is expected to we expect to bring positive results.
contract slightly next year and there is limited LNG fundamental growth in petrochemical export volumes, although tonnemiles for both should grow.
The main The near-term LNG shipping market recovered through challenge for the larger vessels remains deliveries and 2017 with a particular strong finish to the year.
The the overhang of surplus tonnage which was apparent spot freight rate assessment for modern dual-fuelled through 2017.
In the smallest sectors of the fleet, it vessels averaged US$54,400 per day for the second would appear that freights have started to turn a half of the year compared with US$37,700 per day in corner and with no tonnage on order and an ageing the first half of 2017 and US$33,500 per day for 2016. fleet, we may see further upside from this segment.
From July, rates more than doubled to US$82,000 per day by the end of 2017 basis round trip economics.
On the assets, the number of secondhand transactions went up in 2017 but this figure was Strong Asian LNG demand, particularly in China, inflated by more financial transactions, like sale and resulted in a sustained West-East arbitrage and leasebacks between private and public companies.
Chinese year-on-year The total volume of contracting newbuildings was imports were up by 47% to 38m mts in 2017 and the relatively steady, although significant interest in country overtook South Korea as the second largest VLGCs resurfaced from mid-year.
Given the age LNG importer.
Demand growth was driven by Chinese profile of the fleet, the expectation is that we will see environmental concerns, including a nationwide a number of overage VLGCs finally hit the beaches, scheme to switch around two million boilers to use which will have a significant impact on supply gas and discard coal.
South Korean LNG demand demand balances.
was also higher for power generation due to lower nuclear power availability.
The fastest rate of growth New LNG production capacity for LNG in 6 years expected to start up in 2018 10% 28m mt 28 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Overall, northeast Asian demand was up 11% in the by embarking on a successful FSRU newbuilding year to 174.6m mts.
This offset flat to lower imports programme.
However, it has been another challenging in other regions including the Middle East and South year with projects slowly materialising, re-negotiated or America.
High northeast Asian LNG spot prices simply deferred.
We remain bullish on the markets towards the latter part of the year were a catalyst for fundamentals despite this prolonged lull and we look an active spot European reload market supplementing forward to 2018 and beyond.
We are engaged in increased Atlantic basin LNG production which was interesting projects, pursuing new opportunities and also targeting Asian buyers.
US and Angolan LNG strengthening our position in the marketplace.
Our output both rose over 300% to nearly 13m mts per focus remains on conventional tonnage, FSRU FSU annum and 3.8m mts per annum respectively.
New and small scale andwe continue to work closely with Atlantic basin production increased the average other Clarkson Platou teams to promote our range of distance travelled globally by each cargo in 2017 by services and bespoke solutions to clients.
3% to around 3,928 nautical miles, compared with Sale and purchase last years average of 3,809 nautical miles.
Overall, global LNG exports grew by 9.3% to 292m mts per Secondhand annum in 2017.
The year as a whole was extremely successful for Some 26 conventional LNG carriers and FSRUs were thesale and purchase department with every desk delivered in 2017 with 52 scheduled to be delivered throughout the Group improving their revenues on in 2018.
However, roughly 28m mts per annum of a like-for-like basis when compared with 2016 the additional supply capacity is expected to come online second half of the year was particularly pleasing in in 2018 and most of the order book is already terms of market share across all sectors.
It helped of committed to projects.
Additional LNG production course that positive sentiment was returning to both includes the ramp up of Australian, US and Russian the dry cargoand container markets whilst at the projects started in the latter half of last year, as well same time we had a continued stream of committed as new projects.
This includes the US Cove Point and sales candidates from major banks across the world Freeport projects, Australias Ichthys, Equatorial lookingto reduce their exposure to bad debt.
So, Guineas Fortuna FLNG and Russias Yamal LNG withshipowners seeing reasons to be optimistic, second train, amongst others.
andlenders committed to disposing of bad assets, wehad the perfect ingredients with which to transact.
Two other floating liquefaction projects are scheduled As such, we were able to conclude a relatively high to start in 2018.
Australias large-scale Prelude FLNG volume ofbusiness whilst asset values continued to is the largest vessel ever constructed and will have steadily rise.
3.6m mts per annum liquefaction capacity.
Cameroons Perenco FLNG is a conversion project On the tanker side, activity levels were not so high as with 1.2m mts per annum capacity.
A number of new the freight market weakened in the second half of the liquefaction projects may also take final investment year and there were not the same levels of distressed decisions in 2018, including the US Golden Pass, sellers.
Nevertheless, we concluded a number of Driftwood and Rio Grande projects, and the onshore reasonably-sized transactions which gave us a higher Mozambique facility.
market share over our competitors than we might reasonably expect to be able to achieve.
If the freight Qatar also indicated it would build more liquefaction market continues with its current negative trend then capacity after lifting the moratorium on North Field, we would expect increased demolition activity within which would provide more gas for export.
It would this sector, especially amongst the larger crude also debottleneck its existing liquefaction facilities, tonnage, and that in itself should help to turn the which in total would add roughly 23m mts per annum markets around during 2018. by 2024.
Two FSRUs were installed in 2017 in Turkey and Pakistan and FSRU import projects in The challenge is to continue with these increased Bangladesh, India, Ghana, and the Ivory Coast are activity levels through 2018 and, whilst this will said to be scheduled to start up in 2018. undoubtedly not be easy, we feel reasonably confident that there will be a sufficient flow of sales The Clarksons Platou LNG team was buoyed by the candidates from the contraction of the European re-establishment of its presence in Singapore and early lending market and that we remain well placed to in the year, the team achieved a significant milestone beinvolved.
Chinese LNG imports Record sale and purchase increase year-on-year volumes in 2017 46% 93m dwt www.
com 29 Strategic report Business review continued Newbuilding than the previous year but well below pre-2015 levels.
The total world fleet stood at 1,924.0m dwt at the end Whilst 2017 showed an uptick from a notably subdued 2016 market, it still remained a challenging of the year, with fleet growth remaining firm in the gas carrier and tanker sectors.
year for the shipbuilding industry.
With output set to decline following multiple years of Just 902 orders of 72.8m dwt were reported globally, weak contracting, shipbuilders will be hoping that the only the third year in the past 20 in which fewer than moderate upward trend in orders in 2017 accelerates 1,000 new orders were reported.
Capacity reductions remain ongoing, but bulk carrier orders saw the biggest uptick, with 286 many shipyards are still hungry for new orders.
vessels contracted last year, although this remained Although contracting activity has picked up slightly, subdued compared to historical levels.
Driven by conditions remain difficult, and shipbuilders will be large crude units, tanker contracting increased to hoping for further signs of market improvement in 271 vessels, but fell well below the level of ordering thecoming year.
Meanwhile, the boxship newbuilding market showed fewer signs of improvement and just 108 In spite of such challenges, we remained active units were ordered.
Gas carrier and ship-shaped across all key markets.
Our market share in Korea offshore ordering was also limited, with just 39 and continues to grow, with the team placing over a third 37 contracts reported respectively in 2017. of the total number of contracts placed with Korean Chinese builders won the largest share of orders last yards in 2017.
We also grew value through some notable transactions in the passenger cruise space year, picking up the majority of bulker orders and taking 9.2m cgt in total.
Ordering at Korean yards leveraging from our expertise in Sweden and Oslo together with the team in Shanghai.
Corporate improved on record low 2016 levels, but remained limited at 6.4m cgt, while reported contracting transactions that have also delivered large volumes to our business activity over the last few years continue reached 2.0m cgt at Japanese yards.
The strength of cruise newbuilding continued to benefit European to develop and we placed significant volume orders for such industrial business in Korea again this year.
shipbuilders, which accounted for 38% of global estimated contract investment in 2017 in value terms, 2018 will again present its own challenges and though many yards operating outside the cruise shipbuilders are yet to see the light at the end of the sector struggled.
However, our breadth of service continues to ensure that we are well placed to capitalise on all Although contracting improved year-on-year, it opportunities that arise and we are well placed to remained a challenging environment for active continue to grow and deliver volumes across all shipbuilders.
Input costs continued to appreciate and key markets.
freight market fundamentals presented real challenges in owners willingness to accommodate any upward movement in asset pricing to allow the yards to pass this through.
It therefore remained speculative demand that drove activity and this in turn made for a fragile and highly price sensitive environment.
Although contracting remained limited in 2017, shipbuilders continued to deliver a steady volume of tonnage.
Total shipyard output reached 97.0m dwt, although non-delivery of the scheduled start year order book was still significant at 30% in dwt terms.
However, given the smaller order book, deliveries are currently projected to decline by around 20% in tonnage terms in 2018.
After a strong start to the year, total demolition activity in 2017 declined by 21% in tonnage terms to total 35.2m dwt.
This left overall fleet growth relatively steady at 3.3%, slightly faster Total ship recycling Newbuilding deliveries in 2017 in 2017 35m dwt 98m dwt 30 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information segment saw an increase in both asset and Offshore .
Secondhand asset values General forcertain rig categories for example stranded Oil prices strengthened significantly during the  newbuilds also showed second half of 2017, painting a more positive noteworthy increases.
backdrop for the offshore oil services sector in The subsea and field development market general.
Improving oil prices and significant cost Lead times in the segments for field development reductions amongst most oil companies have andsubsea services are significant.
2017, however, enabledsignificant cash flow improvement in the demonstrated a clear uptick in equipment awards, upstream E&P sector.
Most of the major international marking a clear turning point, and the oil companies oil companies have reported significant positive free increased sanctioning activity compared to 2015 and cash flow during 2017, enabling them to gradually 2016.
For floating production units, ten new contracts increase investment levels again, should they were entered into during 2017.
This compares to zero decideto do so.
Activity in most offshore segments new awards in 2016 and four awards in 2015. isthought to have bottomed out during 2017 and Correspondingly, awards for subsea Christmas trees underlying activity drivers have in general turned well control units likely totalled 160-170 in 2017, up tothe more positive.
This is noteworthy both from 83 in 2016.
These equipment awards relate to withinoffshore drilling, field development and fields planned to come on stream mainly from 2020 subseaservices.
onwards, implying the majority of SURF subsea During the year, the Clarksons Platou offshore team installation work offshore will take place from 2019 grew global OSV chartering volumes, gained proper onwards.
As a consequence of low sanctioning foothold within the offshore renewable wind sector activity since late 2014, most leading subsea by expanding into Hamburg and won exclusive contractors currently have substantially reduced order brokerage.
We anticipate these factors will increase backlogs and we witnessed a notable drop in fleet our market share in 2018, notably in the North Sea.
utilisation for the leading players during 2017.
This will Despite sale and purchase volumes remaining low, likely continue through 2018, until field development the Clarksons Platou offshore team managed to work should pick up again from 2019 2020.
Reduced maintain market share and completed key sales to fleet utilisation puts pressure on the leading players, new clients and key important OSV owners.
which again will provide knock-on effects to smaller industry players and vessel owners.
An anticipated Our focus and footprint within offshore analysis recovery in subsea maintenance work may increased in the year, with key hires in Oslo.
We now compensate somewhat for reduced field development have the strongest dedicated offshore analysis team activity in 2018 and into 2019 but, so far, we have not in the brokerage business.
observed a meaningful uptick in inspection and maintenance-related contracts.
Drilling market As of December 2017, global jackup fleet utilisation Offshore support vessels PSV and AHTS stood at around 66%, while floater utilisation was The offshore support vessel OSV market generally around 62%.
While these utilisation levels are remained highly challenging throughout 2017 both exceptionally low, there were some positive forthe PSV and AHTS segments.
Though there are developments in the offshore drilling sector during naturally some regional variances, all or most regional 2017.
Jackup utilisation bottomed and stabilised markets continued to face very low utilisation levels before climbing slightly throughout the year, and both and depressed day rates.
Currently, we estimate that rig segments saw a notable increase in rig fixing around 32% of the global PSV fleet is in lay-up, while activity.
In spite of improving fixing activity, active the corresponding number for the global AHTS fleet floater utilisation drifted lower as rigs rolling off is around 34%.
The North Sea is the region with best existing contracts still outpaced new rig contracts data and visibility in this segment, and, as such, is andextensions in terms of rig years.
Other positive usually a good proxy for other regions.
Utilisation for developments included a tightening of the North Sea 2 large PSVs 900 m deck in the North Sea averaged harsh environment market, particularly for floaters, 75%, equal to 2016 levels, while utilisation for large with an increased number of contracts entered into AHTSs 20,000 BHP averaged around 32%, and future rates climbing slightly.
Furthermore, the Barrels per day of oil Daily offshore produced offshore gas production in 2017 25.5m 115.6bn cu ft www.
com 31 Strategic report Business review continued compared to 35% for 2016.
North Sea PSV term rates Options volumes on dry FFAs were down 27% from seem to have bottomed out between GBP5,500 264,879 lots in 2016 to 192,779 lots in 2017, but the 6,750 per day for the different categories, slightly up value of these was significantly higher.
Given our from 2016 levels, but nevertheless levels that provide strong position in the options market which we no meaningful return for vessel owners.
There are no continue to hold, we have seen a strong performance representative term rates for AHTSs.
Spot rates from this area over the year.
fluctuated substantially throughout the year, as usual, The meteoric rise in annual iron ore volumes slowed but in general, averages were marginally higher in to a trickle last year with growth of 1.5% compared to 2017 compared to 2016, supported by a relatively over 50% growth the previous year.
This, coupled strong summer season.
Going forward, we anticipate with a drop in the general commission levels in the offshore rig activity to increase somewhat in the North sector and the increased activity of the SGX trading Sea, in line with improved fixing activity observed screen, made for a difficult year.
This, combined with increasing field teams in Singapore and London grew market share in development activity post 2018, should support both futures and options and established a stronger gradually higher demand for OSVs in the region.
Overcapacity, however, still remains a significant With fundamental personnel changes in 2017, our issue, and we see limited room for substantially higher Clarksons Platou futures team held their resolve and utilisation and rates near-term.
Most other regions positioned themselves with expertise for 2018 by remain somewhat behind the North Sea in terms of establishing a stronger, leaner desk.
We maintained activity, implying utilisation and day rate levels our market share in the options and FFA markets in remained very low throughout 2017.
We also continue 2017 and we hope to gain market share in 2018 on to expect recovery for these regions to be slow in the back of the strength of the new team.
terms of OSV utilisation and day rates.
The outlook for 2018 is positive and the goal is for Futures Clarksons Platou futures to lead the futures and 2017 was a year of improved notional values across options space across all commodities.
all ship sizes in the dry market.
Capes averaged US$15,128 for the year US$7,388 in 2016 having finally made the conversion from the older ship size of 172,000dwt to the new 180,000dwt 5TC average.
Panamaxes averaged US$9,766 US$5,562 in 2016 and supramaxes averaged US$9,168 US$6,235 in 2016.
A shift in the supramax liquidity from the 52,000dwt 6TC average to the new 58,000dwt 10TC average has yet to take place and a change of ship type on panamax to the 82,500dwt is some way off.
Whilst volumes for the year were up as a whole, the dispersal was more mixed.
Capes had a strong start in the first quarter before deteriorating over the course of the year to come in slightly down: 501,511 lots in 2017 versus 521,161 in 2016 a decrease of 3.7% despite the removal of uncertainty over the ship size.
Panamaxes conversely improved from 460,829 lots in 2016 to 519,387 lots in 2017 an increase of 12.7% whilst supramaxes showed the greatest improvement from 123,688 lots in 2016 to 150,297 lots in 2017 an increase of 21.5%.
The combined improvement in notional values and volumes resulted in a better year for the division with stronger revenues.
Supramax handymax futures Capes notional values in 2017, volumes increase in 2017 doubled from US$7,388 in 2016 21% US$15,128 32 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Securities 2017 has been a tumultuous year marked by natural disasters, geo-political tensions and deep political Financial divisions in many countries.
For Europe in particular, the effect of the new and revised regulations like the Market Abuse Regulations and Markets in Financial Instruments Directives MiFID II has undoubtedly left Landmark transactions the financial community in a state of resignation and confusion.
Despite this, the markets have looked at other positives as growth has increased and equity valuations have continued to climb and are near record highs due to low interest rates, an improved economic outlook and increased risk appetite.
2017 was a year of landmark transactions, Markets have received a double boost from low interest rates and tax cuts this year, stimulating with the financial division involved in demand for shares.
Global stock markets have ended record levels of activity across the equity 2017 at record highs and the MSCI all country world index gained 22% to finish the year at an all-time high.
The US market was again the big winner.
Investors continued to invest in US equities in the wake of the presidential election in the hope of getting fiscal stimulus on top of monetary stimulus, believing that the Federal Reserve has risk assets back-stopped.
The general bond markets were relatively calm in Revenue 2017 and US and European bonds traded horizontally.
The Norwegian bond market, however, saw increasing activity.
Last year, several companies took advantage of the low yields and strong bond market to issue 52.0m approximately US$2bn of new bonds on Norwegian documentation.
Many of the new issues have 2016: 41.0m beensecured debt at similar LTVs to bank financing, but without amortisation.
Hence, offering reduced debt service and thus more cash flow flexibility Segment underlying profit forshipowners.
Metal and fuel prices were supported by stronger momentum in global demand as well as supply restraints in the energy sector, including hurricane- 10.1m related stoppages in the US, financial disruptions in Venezuela and security problems in regions of Iraq.
2016: 6.8m At the same time, rapidly advancing technology allows companies and individuals to do business innew ways.
Technology is redefining the financial markets in the EUs goal of transparency, investor protection and reporting obligations, however it comes at a steep price.
During 2017, our industry has focused on implementing processes and technology in order to be at the forefront of all the new regulations.
However, the financial markets in Norway went into shock when Equity capital raised for our clients in 2017 US$2.9bn www.
com 33 Strategic report Business review continued the Norwegian authorities, without warning, on Project finance 10December 2017 announced that the EU Shipping regulations will come into force on 1 January 2018 2017 has been an active year in the project finance inNorway, instead of late 2018 as earlier announced.
market with increased activity from the different project Clarksons Platou Securities has been very busy houses.
The flavour of the year in the Norwegian throughout 2017, however, at times the markets were market has been dry cargo and containerships.
Our strong pipeline The dry cargo market has continued to improve, resulted in approximately 35 equity and debt capital anda more stable charter market now generates market transactions raising approximately US$4.3bn ahealthy cash flow to cover operating expenses, and the completion of nine M&A transactions debtfinancing and a decent return on equity for restructurings during 2017.
We are also pleased to secondhand acquisitions.
announce the addition of a convertible bond team inOslo and New York, which will be fully operational In the containership sector, the beginning of the during the second quarter of 2018, and which we yearwas an interesting period, when German banks expect will make a contribution from dayone.
were selling off assets at very low levels in order to clear their books.
Many of the investors and funds After a year like 2017, it is hard to predict how were already in asset play mode from seeing recent globalequities in general, and US equities in opportunities in the dry cargo market, and this particular, will perform during 2018.
The backdrop appetite spilled over on containerships which, at the forour core sectors shipping, offshore and metals time, were priced at scrap value or slightly above.
and mining is however supported by some very Since then, the earnings and market values of the interesting fundamentals.
Since the commodity cycle vessels have recovered significantly.
turned negative in 2011, we have seen a continued disappointment and downward adjustment to world The total transaction volume in the Norwegian project GDP growth forecasts.
In 2017, however, we finally finance market was approximately US$1.65bn.
This has come on the back of Clarksons Platou Project Finance completed eight broad and synchronised growth in Asia, the US and transactions in 2017 involving five bulk carriers, three Europe.
We are seeing healthy world GDP growth OSVs, two containerships, a chemical carrier and a supported by rising commodity prices.
Shipping order cruise vessel, with a total project volume of US$164m.
books are touching lows and fleet growth is slowing.
We expect an active 2018 with both asset play and Asset prices in both shipping and offshore are at very structured projects, as cash flows are starting to low levels from a historical perspective.
Banks are return in the various segments.
reducing their exposure to the sector, limiting the capital available for more speculative orders, which isgood for the industry longer-term.
Internally, wewillcontinue to add resources within support functions and front office personnel.
We have a strong pipeline into 2018, but we need to remember that good times are most likely temporary and our priority is to remain focused in order to continue successfully adding revenue.
Shipping offshore transactions Debt capital raised concluded by Clarksons Project for our clients in 2017 Finance in 2017 US$1.3bn 8 34 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Real estate Structured asset finance The Nordic real estate market continued to perform While we see renewed enthusiasm around the strongly in 2017 with growth in all the Nordic shipping markets as a result of an improved supply countries.
The final count for the Norwegian market demand balance across many sectors, the assetisnot yet complete, but consensus from the main based financing backdrop remains challenging with analysts estimate a total transaction market of an overall reduction in the number of active debt and NOK85bn, an increase of 20% from 2016.
in the number of transactions in 2017 compared to Ship finance volumes continue to decline with 2017 2016 is more than 30%.
Across the entire Nordic syndicated marine finance volumes, which includes market, yields on prime assets and long leases shipping and offshore, falling to US$45.9bn in 156 compressed as institutional funds, private equity transactions compared to US$50.3bn a year earlier funds, family offices and other investors sought spread over 189 transactions according to statistics yielding assets with stable dividends in stable produced by Dealogic.
Credit losses, coupled with macro-economies like the Nordic.
At the beginning tighter regulations, have hampered traditional banks of2018, prime yields in Stockholm and Oslo are appetite for new business risk and there is a clear almost the same as in major European cities.
Foreign focus among remaining active lenders to support investors are still present in the Nordic markets, but top-tier, stronger credits while reducing exposure their share of the transaction market in Norway toweaker credits.
dropped to an estimated 19% in 2017 from almost 40% in 2016.
Even though yields on prime assets Activity levels amongst the alternative capital have declined, the yield gap the difference between providers and leasing houses, particularly those in real estate yield and interest rate level is still China and Japan, have increased and we have also attractive.
And, as long as the rates stay low, the seen increased support from the export credit consensus is that 2018 will at least be at the same agencies with respect to newbuilding orders and levels as 2017.
The vacancy rate in the Oslo office toalesser extent modification costs.
market is expected to decline over the coming years Notwithstanding this, we expect that overall assetas a result of conversion and demolition of older office based financing levels for 2017 will be below 2016, buildings to residential properties combined with few which itself was one of the lowest lending years in new office buildings.
The growth in rent levels was recent times.
10.5% even though the CPI only reached 1.1% for 2017.
Clarksons Platou Real Estate reached an In addition, access to asset-based finance is not all-time high turnover in 2017 with a growth of 27% universal, there is a real flight to quality and a two tier compared to 2016.
The transaction team completed market exists.
Top tier borrowers continue to enjoy 27 transactions with a total market value of attractive terms and pricing, but for others, options NOK7.8bn.
Seven of these were sales of older are far more limited with terms and pricing far more projects, giving our investors a weighted yearly lender-friendly.
For some, any offer of finance is a internal rate of return of 62% based on all projects good offer.
actually realised from 2010 until today.
With significant re-financing requirements over the next few years, in addition to the capital expenditure required to satisfy impending regulatory requirements, the outlook for 2018 is a continued lack of assetbased financing liquidity which we expect to continue to increase pressure on borrowers to commit raise equity to fund the gap.
Data from the Oslo Stock Exchange supports this view with equity issues in 2017 surpassing those of 2016 and with some large high profile new issues in the wings for2018.
27 real estate transactions 156 transactions of syndicated concluded by Clarksons in 2017 marine finance volume in 2017 US$1.0bn US$45.9bn www.
com 35 Strategic report Business review continued Agency Following a challenging grain harvest in 2017, both in quality and quantity, our agency operations Support experienced reduced export volumes across the UK.
However, we did start to see some movement predominantly in the short sea market driven by increased malting barley shipments towards the end Upturn in activity of 2017.
This increase looks to continue into early 2018, and we anticipate starting to see some wheat exports as merchants look to clear storage prior to the 2018 harvest.
The flip side to the poor grain export has been an increase in milling wheat imports, most noticeably Support has seen an upturn in general from the US and Canada, which has also benefited our short sea broking division.
We hope this will market activity over the last year, with continue in the spring of 2018 when the seasonal a notable growth in confidence returning restrictions for shipping from the US and Canadian Great Lakes are past.
to the offshore and gas sectors.
In 2017, we experienced a marked upturn in our aggregate business with significant contracts being awarded on the Thames, Humber, Tyne and Great Yarmouth.
We anticipate this area of our business will grow into 2018 as tonnages are brought into the UK Revenue to meet the demand of major construction projects.
Throughout 2017, animal feed imports remained constant into the UK, with a slight uplift towards the end of the year.
It is anticipated that this will remain 18.5m one of our core businesses throughout 2018.
2016: 17.8m The offshore oil and gas industry has shown marked improvement during 2017, with increased activity in the second half.
Although not nearly at the levels we Segment underlying profit were experiencing in 2014, confidence is definitely growing, and we expect to see this trend continue into 2018.
We now have a much larger customer base in this sector which will give us the platform to take 2.1m maximum advantage of the improving market.
We have also been successful in handling major projects 2016: 2.1m outside the UK and will continue to target this area using our dedicated project team.
Offshore wind became a major activity for us during 2017, with contracts awarded throughout the UK as the renewable energy industry continues to grow.
We have become the preferred partner for many of the offshore installation and maintenance companies.
We already have projects in place for 2018 and are confident that this will continue well into 2019.
Expanded agency involvement in offshore wind, representing projects in 9 UK ports 36 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Gibb Industrial Supplies Egypt agency As with agency, our supply businesses in Aberdeen With seven offices in 2017 relative to three offices and Great Yarmouth are benefiting from a slight during 2016, Clarksons Shipping Agency is capable upturn in the oil and gas industry.
The business ofproviding full agency, husbandry and protective performed better than expected in 2017 and again agency services around the clock for a fast and weanticipate this trend continuing into 2018. efficient vessels turnaround at all Egyptian ports.
We are encouraged to see many of our customers Despite the decrease in the volume of port calls renewing agreements into 2018 and beyond, which handled by agency all over Egypt due to current reflects the confidence we are seeing in the offshore market conditions, 2017 was a good year in terms oil and gas market elsewhere.
ofSuez Canal transits, as the number of transits increased by about 16%, as well as serving new We continue to explore markets away from oil and market segments such as LPG and LNG.
gas, with offshore wind being one of our key targets.
Clarksons Shipping Agency handled the Suez Canal Stevedoring transit of the worlds largest towed crude oil floating storage BW Catcher, with no delay and by her own Whilst our stevedoring business has suffered due to tugs for the first time in the history of the Suez Canal.
the reduced grain exports in 2017, we have markedly increased our import activity with the stores in Ipswich being almost at capacity for the majority of the year.
We continue to enjoy a large customer base, and remain one of the few operations in the UK not controlled by one of the major grain houses.
We have continued to diversify in the products that we handle in order to meet customers expectations.
Freight forwarding and logistics In 2017 we recruited a new Head of Forwarding who is working to expand this area of our business, both by commodity and geographically.
His experience in this area of our business is enabling us to challenge some of our larger competitors whilst still offering a bespoke service to our customers.
Traditionally, our freight forwarding business has been very much linked to our agency activity and the business it has generated, but we are now able to offer freight forwarding as a standalone service, which we intend to expand.
Again we see the improvement in the oil and gas sector benefiting this area of our business.
Represented the first wind turbine Expanded agency services installation vessels to be handled with new office openings in Green Port Hull across Egypt 1st 5 new ports www.
com 37 Strategic report Business review continued Research revenues continued their long-term growth projectory, with sales up 7% to 14.6m 2016: 13.7m.
Clarksons Research is respected and trusted worldwide as the market-leading provider of Research authoritative intelligence and data across shipping, trade, offshore and energy.
Research successfully enhances the Clarksons profile across the global shipping and offshore industries and continues to Investment in growth bethe core data provider to the broking, financial andsupport teams of Clarksons.
Research focuses on the collection, validation, management, processing and analysis of data about Revenues continued to rise whilst we the shipping and offshore markets.
Significant investments into our proprietary database and maintained our commitment to investing intelligence management tools have helped support the further enhancement of our integrated digital in growth, consolidating Clarksons platform in 2017.
Our fully relational database continues to expand in breadth and depth, with our Researchs position as the market-leading shipping and trade database now providing coverage on over 140,000 vessels totalling 1.9bn dwt, over provider of intelligence and data.
40,000 companies, over 25,000 machinery models, over 600 active shipyards and fabricators, over 600,000 fixtures and over 100,000 commercial and trade time series, including coverage of 11.6bn tonnes of seaborne trade.
Revenue Our offshore and energy database provides comprehensive coverage of 7,000 offshore fields, over 2,000 projects, 8,000 production platforms, 8,000 subsea trees, 1,000 offshore rigs, 5,000 support 14.6m vessels and construction vessels, all integrated within a Geographical Information System platform.
Further 2016: 13.7m data development has focused on the utilisation of AIS data, trade and commodity flows, the tracking Segment underlying profit ofcapital market activity and shipping loan data, machinery and environmental packages on board ships, offshore renewables, ports and terminals, ship repair yards and other shore side infrastructure relating to trade and energy, including refineries and 4.8m LNG processing plants.
2016: 4.9m Research maintains a regionally broad and diversified client base, including good market penetration across the financial, shipowning, insurance, supplier, governmental, private equity, energy, commodity, shipyard, fabrication and oil service sectors.
Over 75% of research sales are annuity-based and there ishigh customer retention.
Total research headcount is now over 120, with expansion of global operations, including Asia Pacific, during 2017.
Expansion has also focused on our IT development, data analytics and business development teams.
Digital Sales from digital products across shipping and offshore grew by an encouraging 16% 2016: 19%.
Our digital product range, consolidated within a single access portal, continues to expand and benefit from significant investment, utilising our growing proprietary database, in-house developed IT 38 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information technology and our expanded data analytics team coverageand functionality, including data on toremain market-leading.
Further new digital therenewables sector, dynamic utilisation analysis, products and product enhancements are expected enhanced data visualisation tools and improved tocome on line in 2018. mapping functionality.
Major shipping digital products include: Sales across our combined offshore digital product range grew by 25% as we continued to gain traction Shipping Intelligence Network.
Sales from our with the client base and the quality and breadth flagship commercial shipping database continued of ouroffering increased.
We have retained our togrow, consolidating our market-leading position, market-leading position in the insurance market particularly within the financial sector.
The scope of whileexpanding further into the financial and oil data and analysis available has expanded and further service sector.
product enhancements are planned for 2018.
Our authoritative online vessel Services register benefited from a significant upgrade that Clarksons Valuations performed well in 2017, focused on comprehensive fleet intelligence, consolidating its position as the leading provider environmental regulation, the tracking of new ofvaluation services to the ship finance sector.
technology on board ships and market trends in the Aproject to digitalise workflows, supported by shipbuilding market.
The register now offers a range significant investment into the teams operating of powerful functionality including owner and yard platform, has improved workflow efficiency.
The profiles, alert functions, customisation tools and valuations team work closely with all major ship interactive data visualisation.
finance banks, leasing companies and asset owners, and are recognised as the market leader in the SeaNet.
Following its launch in late 2016, our vessel provision of authoritative valuations.
tracking system, SeaNet, successfully expanded its user base across 2017.
SeaNet blends satellite and Our services business continues to grow, with land-based AIS data with our proprietary database underlying sales up 16%.
We have added further of vessels and ports, utilising latest technology headcount to our specialist team which concentrates developed in-house.
It tracks global vessel on managing retainers and providing bespoke data, movements for over 60,000 ships, with a combined consultancy and seminars for a range of corporate fleet tonnage of 1.2bn gt, across over 5,000 ports and clients including banks, shipyards, fabricators, zones.
The completion of a major data project to engineering companies, insurers, governments, enhance our global port and infrastructure coverage assetowners and other corporates.
These bespoke will significantly enhance the SeaNet offer besides services often become embedded within our clients supporting a wide range of broking technology workflows, supporting client retention.
SeaNet is fully complementary to both the research digital offer and broader technology strategy Reports across broking and financial.
Further enhancements Market intelligence reports remain an important to SeaNet are planned for 2018. aspect of the Clarksons Research overall offering, Major offshore digital products include: generating provenance and profile across the industry.
Our flagship shipping reports, including Offshore Intelligence Network.
Significant product Shipping Intelligence Weekly and Shipping Review enhancements have been rolled out.
This includes and Outlook, are well established across the industry database-driven intelligence alerts, rig availability while our comprehensive offshore offering, including charting, enhanced commercial data and life cycle Offshore Review and Outlook, Offshore Drilling Rig project tracking.
Monthly and Offshore Support Vessel Monthly, World Offshore Register.
Our comprehensive continue to expand their footprint.
We publish weekly, offshore register provides detailed intelligence monthly, quarterly and annual reports, registers and onalloffshore oil and gas fields, the infrastructure maps, available individually and embedded within our involved and related support vessels.
During 2017, digital offering, continuing a 50-year heritage.
the platform benefited from expanded data Viewings of Shipping Intelligence Number of valuations provided Network each year by Clarksons Valuations in 2017 5,000,000 30,000 www.
