Mondi Group 60 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Raw materials Our integrated Mondi managed forests value chain Annual allowable cut: 8 million m We are integrated across the packaging and paper value chain.
Our sustainably managed forests, backward pulp 1 Internally procured wood 4 million m integration and high electricity self-sufficiency provide us with security of fibre supply, reduced exposure to raw material price volatility and the Externally procured wood ability to manage sustainability 13 million m risks and opportunities more holistically.
We believe that the integrated nature of our business places Paper for recycling us in an ideal position to deliver 1.3 million tonnes mt on our customers packaging and paper needs.
Films and other raw Resins materials 1 D ue to commercial, logistic and sustainability considerations, the actual wood procured from our managed forests was lower than the annual allowable cut 2 Total consumption aggregate of internal and externally procured packaging paper in million tonnes mt 3 Pulp and packaging paper net exposure 4 In addition to 1.6mt of uncoated fine paper, the Group also produced 0.3mt of newsprint in 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 61 Production processes Products 3 Pulp mill Pulp 4.3 mt 0.2 mt 4 Paper mill Uncoated 4 fine paper 1.6 mt 4 Uncoated fine paper 1.6 mt Kraft paper 3 Kraft paper 1.2 mt 2 0.8 mt 0.4 mt Virgin containerboard 3 Virgin containerboard 1.7 mt 2 0.3 mt 1.4 mt Recycled containerboard 3 Recycled containerboard 0.6 mt 2 Net balanced 0.6 mt Corrugated Industrial Extrusion Fibre-based packaging bags coatings 2 2 packaging operations 1.7bn m 5.0bn bags 1.3bn m Consumer flexible Consumer packaging 2 packaging operations 7.4bn m Mondi Group 62 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Packaging Paper We are a leading packaging paper Our broad range of high-quality speciality Our Packaging Paper business producer in Europe and South Africa with a kraft papers enables customers to source manufactures and sells a wide well-invested, cost-advantaged asset base.
a variety of customised packaging solutions range of virgin and recycled from a single supplier.
Our products can Our virgin and recycled containerboard containerboard, and sack and be used to make everything from industrial is used to make corrugated packaging, speciality kraft paper.
packaging, to retail shopping bags, and primarily designed to protect our attractive food packaging for supermarket customers products along the value shelves and is used by our Consumer chain and display them in-store.
Packaging business for release liner.
Customers benefit from our full-range sack kraft paper portfolio, including brown, white Our broad product range is designed to and polyethylene-coated grades, as the meet specific customer needs including main component of valve and open mouth printability, strength and moisture industrial bags.
resistance, the use of raw materials Operating sites from sustainable sources, and products that are biodegradable and contain recycled content.
10 in 10 countries Employees 5,300 Production capacity Production information Pulp: 2,715 ktpa 1 Virgin and recycled containerboard: 2,435 ktpa Restated 2017 2016 Sack and speciality kraft paper: 1,291 ktpa Containerboard 000 tonnes 2,297 2,253 Key industries served Kraft paper 000 tonnes 1,206 1,204 Automotive Building and construction Softwood pulp 000 tonnes 2,010 1,976 Food and beverage Hardwood pulp 000 tonnes 547 500 Paper and packaging converting Shipping and transport Financial performance 1 Restated million % change 2017 2016 Segment revenue 9% 2,292 2,103 Underlying EBITDA 19% 629 527 Underlying operating profit 21% 482 397 Underlying operating profit margin 21.0% 18.9% Market positions Special items 3 Capital expenditure 283 175 #2 Net segment assets 2,101 1,876 Virgin containerboard ROCE 26.3% 23.1% producer in Europe Sustainable development 2017 2016 #1 TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.60 0.72 Containerboard producer Energy consumption million GJ 58.32 59.26 in emerging Europe Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 1.09 1.25 2 FSCor PEFC-certified wood procured % 60 53 #1 Environmental management % operations certified to Kraft paper producer certification ISO 14001 standards 86 86 globally 1 Refer to note 2 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for basis of restatement Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 63 Packaging Paper Advantage Select ProVantage Komiwhite Our Advantage Select sack kraft paper has enabled the This exclusive white top kraftliner made in Syktyvkar largest cement packaging company in Pakistan to switch Russia brings unprecedented quality in terms of most of its production from three-ply to two-ply bags printability, runnability, andwhiteness.
It offers a wide without compromising on strength or quality.
As a result, range of solutions for packaging fruit, beverages andluxury Cherat Packaging has reshaped the market and delivered goods as well as eye-catching point-of-sale displays, considerable material and cost savings.
Its two-ply bags promotional and shelf-ready packaging.
Its bleached white made with Advantage Select are now used by almost all hardwood top sheetensures brilliant printing that meets the cement plants in Pakistan, and are greatly appreciated requirements of our customers and captures the attention by customers.
Raw materials Production processes Products Wood fibre Pulp mill Pulp Virgin and recycled 1 containerboard Paper for recycling Fibre Packaging Consumer Packaging Paper mill Sack kraft and speciality 1 kraft paper 1 Sold externally and used in our Fibre Packaging and Consumer Packaging businesses Mondi Group 64 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Packaging Paper Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2017 2018 objectives e Focused on improving product mix, and optimising e Improve productivity and efficiency of mills through Drive performance along production and supply chain Asset Management System and recovery boiler the value chain optimisation plan e Improved reliability of mills through focus on maintenance and Asset Management System e Completed the wiecie mill Poland expansion to e Make progress on major capital investment Invest in assets provide additional 100,000 tonnes of softwood kraft projects at tti Czech Republic and Ruomberok with cost advantage pulp, 80,000 tonnes of light-weight kraftliner and Slovakia mills increased share of kraft top liner e Ramp-up of new wiecie capacity e Continued focus on safety, completed all shuts and e Continued focus on growing our safety maturity Inspire our people and capex projects with no major safety incidents e Progress investments to reduce the environmental grow responsibly e Enhanced employee relationships and two-way footprint of our mills and improve energy efficiency communication e Reduced GHG emissions intensity e Improved customer intimacy through hosting events, e Leverage recently implemented platforms and Partner with customers supporting through Electronic Data Interchange EDI initiatives to further improve customer partnerships for innovation connections and providing platforms for engagement and relationships with Mondi experts e Complete the acquisition of Powerflute Segment revenue Financial review Demand across our range of speciality million kraft papers was good and prices were, on Packaging Papers underlying operating average, higher than in the prior year.
profit was up 21% on the prior year driven by significantly higher average selling prices 2,292m Input costs were generally higher than the and sales volume growth in higher value prior year with higher paper for recycling, added products, partly offset by higher 2,292 wood, chemical, energy and transport 2,213 2,125 2,092 2,103 costs and negative currency effects.
Cash fixed costs also increased on higher maintenance costs and inflationary Strong demand, limited industry capacity cost pressures.
As a result of recent capital additions and lower kraftliner imports investments, the depreciation charge was drove up European containerboard prices higher than the comparable period.
over the course of the year, although the magnitude of the increases varied by grade.
We completed a project-related shut at our Average benchmark European prices for wiecie mill and a planned maintenance 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 unbleached kraftliner were up 13% year-onshut at our Syktyvkar mill during the first half year, and up 16% in the second half when of the year.
A further planned maintenance compared to the first half of the year, while Underlying operating profit shut at wiecie and the majority of our benchmark recycled containerboard prices million kraft paper mill shuts were completed in were up around 10% over the same period.
Maintenance shuts are By contrast, white top kraftliner prices and planned at our Syktyvkar and Richards Bay 482m semi-chemical fluting were up in the range South Africa mills for the first half of 2018 ROCE of 2% to 3% year-on-year.
while the majority of the remaining shuts are 482 scheduled for the second half of the year, 423 In response to continued strong demand 397 375 including an extended shut at our tt mill 341 driven by a generally positive economic as we progress to commission the major environment and ongoing growth in capital project at that operation.
e-commerce, price increases in the range of 30 to 50 per tonne were implemented Drive performance along in Europe across all containerboard grades thevalue chain during January and February 2018.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 During the year, we continued to focus on We saw good demand across our kraft improving our product mix, and optimising paper grades during the year, while sack our production network and supply chain to kraft paper prices were up around 5% to better serve our customers.
We also made 6% on average year-on-year.
Given good good progress on delivering procurement demand, particularly in export markets, savings and improving the productivity and we implemented sack kraft paper price efficiency of our mills.
increases in all markets from the beginning To increase the reliability of our operations of 2018, resulting in increases in the range and reduce maintenance costs we of 8% to 9% compared to average 2017 continued to invest in our maintenance and price levels.
We have significantly improved our data analytics 22.3% 24.3% 25.9% 23.1% 26.3% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 65 capabilities to provide standardised data to capital expenditure projects safely, we campaign and our claim of More than benchmark performance across the mills.
engaged with contractors and planned you expect.
The overwhelming response in detail ahead of time.
As a result, we we received was so inspiring that we This enables us to improve consistency continue to see improvements in our safety shared these stories with our employees of our maintenance activities which we performance during maintenance shuts globally via our intranet as well as a printed are standardising, review the skills and and capital investment projects.
52 employees provided personal qualifications required by our people and did not record any major incidents during stories illustrating how Mondi exceeds their improve our training programmes.
these projects in 2017, we regret that we expectations.
We were encouraged by experienced a life-altering injury a partial these stories, which bring our values to life.
Asset Management System 22 finger amputation at our Frantschach mill case study Strategy review Partner with customers for innovation Austria.
Collaboration and best practise sharing We continue to develop customer intimacy As a result of our recent investments, such as is crucial to drive operational excellence through proactive initiatives.
In 2017 we the installation of a new recovery boiler and across our mills.
During the year we had the pleasure of hosting the eighth conversion of the existing boiler to a biofuel focused on reviewing the set-up of our From fibre to corrugated board seminar boiler at our wiecie mill, we have reduced know-how sharing platforms to improve at our wiecie mill, a three day event with GHG emissions and improved energy the implementation of recommended around 250 customers.
Our well known efficiency at our operations.
seminar provides an opportunity to was made in reducing waste to landfill, share knowledge, best practice and key mainly due to further conversion of waste to Invest in assets with cost advantage challenges between paper and corrugated energy instead of landfilling at our wiecie board producers.
In the first half of 2017, we commissioned mill.
Our Stambolijski mill in Bulgaria received the final phase of our 260 million investments during the year with a focus on During the year, we expanded our investment programme in wiecie.
improving our environmental performance Electronic Data Interchange connection This project provides an additional by capturing and treating odourous gases with customers.
This direct connection to 100,000 tonnes per annum of softwood and upgrading our emissions measurement our customers ERP systems allows for kraft pulp forward integrated to 80,000 equipment.
In Frantschach we invested in automated order placement, confirmation, tonnes per annum of light-weight kraftliner additional noise protection measures and delivery notification and invoicing.
and an increased share of kraft top liner.
initiatives aimed at reducing air emissions such This initiative continues to grow since its We continue to see progress in ramping as nitrogen oxides.
inception in 2015 and is poised for further up production of the requisite quality at our development in 2018.
FSCor PEFC-certified wood volumes rebuilt paper and inline coating machine at were increased during the year, mainly due tt although technical challenges remain.
Our online corrugated board platform to increased procurement of wood from  was launched We are making good progress on the certified suppliers.
late in 2017 providing customers with the 335 million modernisation of our tt mill opportunity to submit questions to our internal In 2017, our annual Making A Difference to replace the recovery boiler, rebuild the experts.
Partnering with our customers to help Day included a focus on our relationships fibre lines and debottleneck the existing them improve paper runnability and optimise with local communities.
We hosted events packaging paper machines.
Start-up is cost and weight in the box design process is including visits by local students, family anticipated in late 2018.
During the year we vital for their success.
This 24 7 online support days and community open days.
We see also completed the 41 million woodyard tool provides an ideal platform for collaboration benefits from these activities including upgrade and bleaching line modernisation and partnership.
improved community-site cooperation, at this mill.
local environmental and safety & health In December 2017, to broaden our highThe European Commission approved awareness, understanding of our industry, quality packaging paper offering to our 49 million in tax incentives for our and support for the development of a pool global corrugated packaging customers, 310 million investment in a new 300,000 of local technical skills.
We were proud to we signed an agreement to acquire tonne per annum kraft top white machine celebrate two very special anniversaries Powerflute, an integrated pulp and paper and related pulp mill upgrade at our this year.
We hosted 180 guests, including mill in Kuopio Finland with an annual Ruomberok mill.
Work on the pulp mill state and local Polish representatives, production capacity of 285,000 tonnes of upgrade has commenced, with start-up at a special function for wiecies 50- high-performance semi-chemical fluting for expected in late 2019.
The investment in year anniversary.
In Dyns Sweden we 365 million on a debt and cash-free basis.
the paper machine remains subject to celebrated 100 years of papermaking, Powerflutes semi-chemical fluting is sold to obtaining necessary permitting with starttaking the opportunity to reinforce the a diverse range of customers, primarily for up expected in 2020. companys relationship with the city and its packaging fresh fruit and vegetables, but citizens, and share information about our also other end-uses such as electronics, Inspire our people operations, products, and the contribution chemicals and pharmaceuticals.
andgrow responsibly we make to the city.
Around half of the companys production The safety and health of our people is is sold in Europe, while the remainder is We also continued to look for ways to a key priority.
We continued to reduce exported globally.
We anticipate completion improve two-way communication with risks in our operations with a focus on of this transaction in the first half of 2018, our employees.
In 2017 we asked our the top risks.
To ensure we conduct subject to competition clearance and employees to share their stories with us annual maintenance shuts and implement customary closing conditions.
in relation to our In Touch Every Day Mondi Group 66 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Fibre Packaging Our comprehensive product portfolio, and food products.
We have the broadest Our Fibre Packaging business integration into paper and strong innovation range of industrial bags in the industry, manufactures and sells capabilities help us meet our customers available globally, and optimised for highcorrugated packaging, needs.
speed filling and easy handling, including industrial bags and speciality open mouth bags, pasted valve bags, Innovation and design improvements extrusion-coated products water-repellent bags, bags suitable for food extend the benefits of our corrugated contact and heavy-duty packaging.
for a variety of consumer and packaging well beyond traditional boxes to industrial applications.
fully customised trays and wraps, multiOur extrusion coatings portfolio comprises piece solutions, appealing point-of-sale high-quality barrier solutions used in a wide corrugated solutions and heavy-duty range of industries for applications such as shipping containers.
food packaging, building insulation, foam papers, wrappers, case linings as well as Industrial bags are a strong, light-weight automotive and protective clothing.
and sustainable choice for cement and building materials, agricultural, chemical Operating sites 60 in 24 countries 16 40 4 Corrugated Industrial Extrusion Packaging Bags Coatings Employees 8,100 Key industries served Agriculture Automotive and other manufacturing Building and construction Food and beverage Production information Retail and e-commerce 2017 2016 Shipping and transport Corrugated board and boxes million m 1,650 1,448 Industrial bags million units 4,952 4,881 Extrusion coatings million m 1,281 1,249 Financial performance million % change 2017 2016 Market positions Segment revenue 7% 2,055 1,929 Underlying EBITDA 3 % 189 194 #3 Underlying operating profit 10 % 111 123 Corrugated packaging producer Underlying operating profit margin 5.4% 6.4% in emerging Europe Special items 13 Capital expenditure 115 107 Net segment assets 1,063 1,006 #1 ROCE 11.3% 13.5% Industrial bags producer globally Sustainable development 2017 2016 TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 1.02 0.97 #2 CoC Certification % operations certified to Extrusion coatings FSC or PEFC producer in Europe CoC standards 65 72 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 67 Fibre Packaging Box A Treasure Courier Express Packaging Flexible paper bag Box A Treasure, designed for the brand relaunch of an Along with the growth of e-commerce, the demand for more Austrian toy manufacturer, is part of the overall product efficient and light-weight packaging is increasing.
This packaging is one of our many retail developed the next generation in sustainable e-commerce packaging solutions designed to enhance brand and product solutions, enabling a faster packaging process with decreased appeal at point-of-sale and back at home.
Our recyclable paper bag for courier express cardboard box resembles a toolbox or treasure chest.
With a packaging is flexible, yet strong and durable.
Made of Mondi lid that can be opened and closed, kids love it and it is great Advantage ONE paper and shaped like an envelope with a tear for storage too.
An excellent example of how packaging can strip, it is easy to open and the double adhesive closing makes breathe new life into products.
returns convenient for customers too.
Raw materials Production processes Products Corrugated packaging Recycled and virgin containerboard Industrial bags Converting operations Sack kraft and speciality kraft paper Extrusion coatings Mondi Group 68 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Fibre Packaging Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2017 2018 objectives e Intensified commercial excellence efforts to pass on e Continue commercial excellence efforts to pass on Drive performance along significant paper price increases paper price increases the value chain e Further optimisation of our Industrial Bags production e Focus on product quality and efficient logistics, network in Europe and North America while reducing waste and optimising production costs e Successful integration of recent acquisitions e Expansion of our industrial bags plant in Abidjan Invest in assets Cte dIvoire with a second line e Start-up of state-of-the-art heavy-duty corrugated box with cost advantage plant at Simet Poland e Continue to strengthen our Middle East network e Expansion of cost-advantaged industrial bags facility e Continue to invest to develop our production inSabac Serbia network capabilities e Increased focus on safety through formal training e Focus on talent attraction and retention initiatives Inspire our people and programmes and on-the-job safety management through investing in our workforce and support grow responsibly from external partners e Focus on engaging with local communities e Continued focus on workforce safety and training e Enhanced service delivery and implemented customer e Continue to improve reliability of service, supplier Partner with customers interfaces flexibility and speed to market for innovation e Developed various product solutions in collaboration e Continue to partner with customers for lighter, with our customers, particularly in Corrugated stronger and high performance solutions Packaging and Extrusion Coatings Segment revenue Financial review Price increases were achieved in the early million part of the year to compensate for higher Fibre Packagings underlying operating paper input costs, although margins came profit was down 10% on the prior year to under pressure during the second half as 111 million.
Strong volume growth, higher 2,055m higher paper prices, following mid-year average selling prices and the positive increases, could not be fully passed on to impact from our 2016 acquisitions in 2,055 2,031 1,929 customers given the majority of industrial 1,852 Corrugated Packaging were more than 1,690 bag contracts are fixed on an annual basis.
offset by higher packaging paper input Strong cost management and the benefit costs, negative currency translation effects of recent rationalisation activities resulted and restructuring costs related to our in significant fixed cost savings during initiatives to optimise our Industrial Bags the period.
Annual contracts for 2018 network in Europe and North America.
have been finalised, with price increases Corrugated Packaging achieved strong implemented that largely reflect the full 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 organic volume growth of 6%, driven by impact on the cost base of the recent good market growth across the central paper price increases.
Underlying operating profit and eastern European region, continued million growth in e-commerce activity and a Drive performance along recovery in Turkey.
Our recently completed thevalue chain capital investments across our corrugated We intensified our commercial excellence 111m operations to broaden our capabilities efforts during the year, partly compensating ROCE to meet our customers increasingly rising paper prices, launching a range 123 120 sophisticated product and service needs 111 of ongoing pricing excellence initiatives 102 were instrumental in achieving this growth.
to pass on raw material costs to our 86 Good progress was made during the year customers.
We continued to focus on in implementing price increases required improving productivity and efficiency, and to compensate for the significantly higher reducing conversion costs per unit to paper costs.
Our efforts in this area are stay competitive.
We anticipate continued shortThe breadth and geographic reach of our term margin pressure, given the normal 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 industrial bags network gives us the unique delay in passing on paper price increases ability to continue to work on optimising our compounded by the containerboard price production network to serve our customers increases implemented early in 2018. more efficiently.
In 2017, we closed our Industrial Bags sales volumes were up 2% facilities at Ghislenghien Belgium and on average, driven by strong growth in Thessaloniki Greece and continue to eastern Europe, Russia, Africa and South serve our customers from other sites with East Asia, partly offset by weaker western excellent customer retention.
We also European and North American volumes.
moved production for lawn and leaf refuse 11.8% 13.4% 13.9% 13.5% 11.3% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 69 bags from our facility in Arcadia, Louisiana Inspire our people chilling needs, and Simple Sphere, an andgrow responsibly US to Louisville, Kentucky US to increase innovative transport packaging for car parts our proximity to customers and improve that replaces wooden crates, streamlining It is with deepest regret that we logistics.
Our new operation in Abidjan the packing process, reducing costs while experienced a fatality at our Tire Kutsan continued to ramp-up production to meet reducing the impact on the environment.
Turkey box plant in August.
A thorough the growing demand of our customers in We also developed, together with our investigation was conducted with external the region.
In our effort to further improve customer, an e-commerce shipping paper specialists and we have implemented the efficiency of our extrusion coatings bag solution.
action plans across our operations to network, we divested a flexo printing plant prevent a repeat of the incident.
We have continued to focus on in Sunne Sweden in January 2018. sustainability initiatives to support our We have placed special emphasis on Quality is a top priority across our customers lighter-weight products or our first line managers training, and businesses.
During the year we continued develop innovative biodegradable solutions this year we conducted 360 reviews to to roll out our zero defect project across by combining our speciality kraft paper and assist us in defining specific leadership our corrugated operations, enabling us our Sustainex biodegradable barrier.
To ensure alignment to deliver even more consistently highwith Mondis safety requirements, all We know that product quality and service quality products across our network.
our safety professionals have attended delivery are important to our customers.
In our industrial bags operations, we have the Mondi Group Safety Professionals We have invested in our IT systems to reinforced quality as a key focus and training programme.
As part of our capital enhance our ability to serve our customers, launched specific initiatives to standardise expenditure projects we also increased our focusing on increasing the digitisation of our quality management processes.
focus on contractor safety management, our customer interfaces and providing completing all projects without any automated information flow.
We are also Invest in assets with cost advantage recordable injuries.
targeting initiatives to reduce the time In 2017 we completed the expansion of between customer order and delivery, and To support our commitment to growing Mondi SIMET S. A. which we acquired in improve delivery accuracy.
We continue responsibly, we have increased efforts 2016, into a high-efficiency, heavy-duty box to actively work with our customers to to improve analytics that help us monitor plant.
A new corrugator, converting lines improve their supply chain processes, and identify opportunities to optimise our and new box maker started up as planned reduce transportation costs, and deliver water and electricity consumption.
We have towards the end of the year.
focused on improving our efficiency in to modernise and expand our new plant relation to consumption of compressed in Lebedyan in Russia, also acquired in air, with improved monitoring and 2016, enabling us to broaden our product measurement across many of our sites.
range and better serve our customers in the region.
We expect to complete this During the year we continued to engage investment in 2018.
During the year we with our communities locally.
For example focused on sharing resources and knowwe hosted an Open House Day at our how as part of our acquisition integration corrugated packaging site in Warszawa process to ensure we bring people on Poland.
This very successful initiative board and drive performance in line with assisted us with recruiting eight new the Mondi Way.
employees from a pool of local talent.
We plan to use this model in some of our We have expanded our industrial bags other operations.
facility in Sabac into a state-of-the-art plant.
It is well located to leverage Partner with customers for innovation its cost advantage to service our We have a strong innovation culture customers in central and eastern Europe.
supported by our long-term customer We also invested in our product portfolio relationships and backward integration by expanding and upgrading certain bags into paper production.
We are pleased that plants in North America and western our close collaboration with our customers Europe to produce high-quality, PE-liner has been recognised with five World Star bags suitable for demanding applications Awards and a number of other accolades requiring a food safe production this year for our Corrugated Packaging environment e. g. dry dairy products.
Some of our innovative To further expand our network in the fast corrugated packaging solutions developed growing Middle East region, we signed an recently include IceBox, a last mile delivery agreement to buy a control position in a box for chilled or frozen food or on-the-go plant near Cairo in Egypt.
The acquisition is expected to complete during the first half of 2018.
Mondi Group 70 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Consumer P ackaging We operate a high-quality asset base, using We produce highly developed technical Our Consumer Packaging proprietary processing technology with vertical films and film-based solutions for a variety business develops, integration along the value chain, producing of uses and industries.
Products include manufactures and sells products and product components for some high-quality label films as well as high-barrier innovative flexible plastic-based of the worlds biggest brands.
Our leading films for sophisticated packaging solutions, consumer goods packaging market positions and culture ofproduct and films for demanding surfaces or innovation provide a strong platform technicalcomponents in automotive and solutions, technical films, for growth.
components for personal care products, and release liners.
Sustainable development is integral to our Our personal care components are used responsible and profitable growth, and part in diapers, adult incontinence and femcare of our everyday work.
Our approach to products and include soft nonwovens, sustainability is centred on collaborating with unique stretchy elastic films and laminates, customers and other strategic partners, while mechanical fastening components and prioritising the responsible use of resources.
Our consumer goods packaging products In addition, consumer packaging also offers help brands communicate with customers, a wide range of high-quality paper and filmextend shelf-life and improve end-user based release liners and advanced functional convenience.
We produce high-quality coatings for various applications including laminates and barrier materials on reels, tapes, graphic arts, medical, fibre composites, Operating sites capable of handling a variety of printing baking and many more.
We also offer a wide range oftailor-made converted flexible packaging 30 in 12 countries solutions such as stand-up pouches, Employees re-closable plastic bags, paper-based bags, andice cream packaging.
6,000 Key industries served Food and beverage Graphic arts Home and personal care Medical and pharmaceutical Pet care Production information Tapes 2017 2016 Consumer packaging million m 7,437 7,156 Financial performance million % change 2017 2016 Segment revenue 5% 1,646 1,562 Underlying EBITDA 9% 215 198 Underlying operating profit 9% 132 121 Underlying operating profit margin 8.0% 7.7% Market positions Special items 49 19 Capital expenditure 91 91 Net segment assets 1,313 1,270 #1 ROCE 10.4% 10.5% Commercial release liner producer in Europe Sustainable development 2017 2016 TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 1.01 1.19 #3 Hygiene certification % food contact operations Consumer flexible packaging certified to recognised producer in Europe food hygiene standards 94 100 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 71 Consumer P ackaging One-stop shop for femcare convenience SteamFast Women on the go want products that fit their lifestyle.
SteamFast is the global leader in functional packaging for Our customers want to offer their customers femcare microwave steam cooking.
The award-winning technology is products that are discreet, comfortable and most importantly simple and effective.
It allows steam and pressure to build up dependable.
To translate these qualities into material terms, in the bag so that consumers can enjoy great-tasting, healthy we deliver a complete femcare packaging concept not food that cooks in minutes.
Theres no need to add water, just individual parts.
Its about designing products from stir or even cut the bag open until its ready to be served.
top to bottom under one roof.
One-stop shopping for Our SteamFast range includes Sauce & Steam, Prep & Steam, our customers!
Its a welcome innovation in healthy cooking technology and convenience.
Raw materials Production processes Products Film extrusion and Resins nonwoven production Technical films Sack kraft and speciality kraft paper Release liner Converting Personal Consumer operations care goods components packaging Films and other raw materials Mondi Group 72 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Consumer Packaging Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2017 2018 objectives e Good progress in reducing waste and optimising e Further strengthen sales force effectiveness across Drive performance along operations through process specialisation the business the value chain e Restructuring initiatives to lower cost base including e Ongoing initiatives to optimise production, reduce plant closures waste and improve quality assurance management e Completion of key expansion projects in central and e Complete expansion of our plant in Thailand Invest in assets eastern Europe e Optimise our recent investments with cost advantage e Continued focus on safety, especially training on e Further focus on improving our safety record Inspire our people and moving and rotating equipment e Continue to work with stakeholders to improve the grow responsibly e Joined The Ellen MacArthur Foundations New Plastics sustainability of flexible packaging products Economy Initiative to support a more circular economy e Realigned key account teams for improved e Continue to strengthen our innovation organisation Partner with customers collaboration with main customers e Continue to partner with customers to develop for innovation e Developed innovative solutions in partnership with our innovative solutions customers Segment revenue Financial review Drive performance along thevalue chain million Underlying operating profit increased Our focus to drive Consumer Packagings 9% on the prior year to 132 million, with performance continues in what remains 1,646m improved product mix, one-off gains and a challenging trading environment.
a positive contribution from acquisitions During 2017 we focused on enhancing our more than offsetting lower like-for-like sales 1,646 1,562 1,469 sales force effectiveness, making good volumes, higher fixed costs and negative 1,414 1,379 progress in our release liner and technical currency effects.
We further optimised During the year we continued with our the profitability of our product portfolio initiatives to improve the product mix through process and production planning by focusing on increasing our sales in while remaining continually focused on value-added segments while exiting finding smart ways to reduce waste and lower margin business, although this was 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 continuously improve our productivity hindered by declining volumes in personal and efficiency.
We continue to do this by care components.
We also benefited from further specialising our plants and ensuring the successful integration of Kalenobel Underlying operating profit our people share technical know-how in Turkey and Uralplastic in Russia, both million across operations.
acquired in July 2016, and Excelsior During the year we completed the closure Technologies in the UK, acquired in early 132m of a release liner site in the US and a 2017, further supporting the development of ROCE consumer goods packaging plant in this business.
Customers are now being served 121 108 from other plants in our network with a 96 high retention rate.
We also launched a 79 programme to restructure the cost base.
This involved various initiatives, including streamlining the UK operations following the successful integration of our 2017 acquisition of Excelsior Technologies 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Limited, the closure of the Polish plant mentioned above and reducing the fixed cost base across the business.
8.7% 10.4% 10.7% 10.5% 10.4% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 73 Invest in assets with cost advantage Our commitment to work collaboratively Partner with customers for innovation with other stakeholders has led us to We invested in expanding and upgrading Partnering with our customers to develop join The Ellen MacArthur Foundations the capabilities of our network to improve innovative solutions for their success New Plastics Economy Initiative this year.
our product offering and better serve remains a critical value driver for Consumer This is an ambitious, three-year initiative our customers, especially at our cost Packaging.
During the year we continued to mobilise the transition towards a global advantaged locations in central and eastern to innovate with our customers, from big plastics system, to support the circular Europe.
We also acquired the remaining brand owners to local champions, to economy principles.
This initiative brings shares that we did not already own in our deliver a range of product innovations.
together more than 40 leading businesses plant in Amphor Khowyoi Thailand and We also realigned our key account set-up including some of our key customers approved its expansion to a fully integrated to enable a closer partnership and better and a broad range of experts to re-think consumer goods packaging plant.
collaboration with our main customers.
and re-design the future of plastics, starting In recent years, we have invested Recent innovation activities were focused with packaging.
significantly in the modernisation and around four areas: flexible solutions to We also continued to actively participate growth of our Consumer Packaging replace rigid alternatives, developing in industry associations.
In the near term, while capital more sustainable plastic-based flexible we are a founding member of the CEFLEX investment opportunities in this business packaging, delivering cost savings project Circular Economy for Flexible remain an option, we are focused on the and increasing the performance of our Packaging which targets more added optimisation of our existing operations and product range such as improving barrier value of flexible packaging in a circular recent investments.
properties, convenience, shelf-appeal or economy.
In addition to stimulating product functionality.
increased collection of flexible packaging in Inspire our people One example is the launch of a form all European countries, the CEFLEX project andgrow responsibly fill-and-seal flexible solution for Kelloggs aims to develop a robust set of design We continue to work on our safety culture cereals with a corner seal for easy opening, guidelines for flexible packaging to both and behaviour to ensure our people go velcro for reclosability, premium print quality maximise the overall resource efficiency home safely every day.
To do this, all our for shelf-appeal and reduced environmental and optimise recyclability.
leaders conduct risk focused audits to footprint due to use of less raw materials.
engage with employees and ensure critical It is people who drive performance.
We also developed an innovative solution controls are understood and adhered This year we spent significant time for dishwasher and fabric care packaging to.
During the year we continued to put on individual performance reviews, with our customer Werner and Mertz, made training and procedures in place to ensure assessments and recruiting, and we of two components, a 100% recyclable the businesses we acquired in 2016 and worked on improving our succession mono material pouch and a printed tear 2017 meet the Mondi safety standards as planning in the business.
Two-way away label that require 70% less material quickly as possible.
communication is critical in our business than conventional rigid packaging.
and the employee survey is one of the In response to consumers growing Unfortunately, we experienced a life-altering key tools we rely on to provide us with appetite for snacks on-the-go, we also injury at our Ascania Germany operation direct feedback from all our employees.
developed CornerPack, a new packaging when rotating equipment caused an Following the results of the 2015 survey, solution with easy-to-use parallel semiemployee to lose four fingers.
Moving and which identified a number of areas for circular openings.
Consumers simply tear rotating equipment remains one of our improvement, we conducted a followthe corner open along the highly intuitive highest safety risks and we will keep the up survey of the top 100 employees to scoring line of their choice giving them full spotlight on it by standardising safety establish the core values of our Consumer control over the size of the opening and features and conducting further training for Packaging business and check on our avoiding spillage.
all our employees on the related risks.
We were really encouraged to The environmental impact of Mondis note the improvements, confirming that our plastic-based flexible packaging is current approach is yielding positive results.
In line with Mondis Growing Responsibly model, we have worked on improving our energy efficiency and reducing our waste to landfill.
We are also working with our customers to find innovative solutions that improve the sustainability of their products and packaging.
Mondi Group 74 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews U ncoated Fine Paper Were a market leader, with a focus on Developing cost-efficient, high-performance, Our Uncoated Fine Paper UFP emerging Europe, Russia and South Africa.
environmentally responsible solutions is business manufactures and sells We operate vertically integrated, well-invested, a cornerstone of our business strategy.
an extensive range of quality cost advantaged assets and continually look We continually strive to transform credibly papers for use in offices and for ways to improve efficiency and productivity.
sourced raw materials into innovative paper professional printing houses.
solutions to meet customer needs in a costOur extensive range of office papers is effective and sustainable way.
designed to achieve optimal print results on laser, inkjet and copy machines.
HighFollowing the reorganisation of our business performance professional printing papers are units, we now manage 2.1 million hectares of dedicated for offset presses and the latest natural boreal forest in Russia and 245,000 digital print technologies.
With our wide range hectares of plantation forests in South Africa.
of high-quality papers we aim to provide customers a one-stop-shop solution for their needs.
Production information 1 Restated Operating sites 2017 2016 Uncoated fine paper 000 tonnes 1,644 1,666 6 in 4 countries Hardwood pulp Internal consumption 000 tonnes 950 963 Employees Market pulp 000 tonnes 395 356 Softwood pulp 000 tonnes 375 375 6,800 Newsprint 000 tonnes 277 313 Production capacity Pulp: 1,735 ktpa Financial performance 1 Uncoated fine paper : 1,985 ktpa 1 Restated 1 Includes newsprint million % change 2017 2016 Segment revenue 7% 1,832 1,720 Key industries served Graphic and photographic Underlying EBITDA 7 % 449 481 Office and professional printing Underlying operating profit 12 % 331 375 Underlying operating profit margin 18.1% 21.8% Special items 15 6 Capital expenditure 122 92 Net segment assets 1,446 1,466 ROCE 27.8% 32.3% Sustainable development 1 Restated 2017 2016 TRCR per 200,000 hours worked 0.28 0.33 Energy consumption million GJ 93.25 93.85 Market positions Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions million tonnes CO e 3.38 3.49 2 Forest certification % managed land certified 2 3 to FSC standards 100 100 #1 FSCor PEFC-certified wood % 80 79 Uncoated fine paper procured supplier in Europe Environmental management % of pulp and paper mills certification and forestry operations certified to ISO 14001 #1 standards 100 100 Uncoated fine paper 1 Refer to note 2 in the notes to the combined and consolidated financial statements for basis of restatement producer in South Africa 2 Our forestry operations in Russia are also 100% PEFC certified 3 A new lease, acquired in 2017, of around 30,000 hectares will be certified in 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 75 U ncoated Fine Paper PERGRAPHICA Color Copy We designed our PERGRAPHICA portfolio of premium Our flagship office paper is by far the most well-known uncoated fine papers for perfectionists.
As a hybrid paper, brand of office paper in Europe for colour printing PERGRAPHICA works well with all printing technologies applications.
Customers have relied on it for over a quarter and delivers consistent, high-quality results that meet of a century for perfect print results and consistent quality.
the exacting needs of the creative and commercial It also has an exceptional environmental profile: CO 2 print industries.
Available in a smooth or rough texture, neutral and FSC, EU Ecolabel and ISO 9706 certifications.
it enhances sophisticated messaging with an elegant Recently we redesigned its wrapper to be even stronger look and feel.
The choice of high white, classic or natural and more convenient to handle.
Its still the same great whiteness brings unique style to printed materials.
Color Copy, now with packaging that is more user-friendly.
Raw materials Production processes Products Wood fibre Pulp mill Pulp Professional printing paper Paper mill Office paper Mondi Group 76 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Business reviews Uncoated Fine Paper Delivering on our strategy Strategic value drivers Progress in 2017 2018 objectives e Continue to optimise performance and increase e Improved productivity and efficiency with performance Drive performance along improvement initiatives implemented across our productivity and efficiency in our mills and related the value chain network forestry operations e Further optimised product mix in line with customer e Ramp up restarted uncoated fine paper machine in demand Merebank South Africa e Good progress on modernisation of power plant e Execute investment projects currently underway Invest in assets and the investment in waste water treatment plant at and evaluate investments to increase saleable with cost advantage Syktyvkar Russia production by 100,000 tonnes per annum in the medium term at Syktyvkar e Continued work with Packaging Paper on the project to e Progress on Ruomberok mill expansion, in expand production at our Ruomberok mill Slovakia collaboration with Packaging Paper e Continued focus on contractor safety management e Continued focus on improving safety record Inspire our people and following fatality e Progress investments to reduce environmental grow responsibly e Landmark voluntary agreement to protect core areas of footprint of our mills and increase energy efficiency Intact Forest Landscapes in Russia e Launched the myMondi initiative providing customers e Continue to roll out the myMondi initiative with the Partner with customers with a single interface for product information, order objective to reach all customers by the third quarter for innovation processing and query management of 2018 e Evolution of our cloud-based CRM platform Cloud for e Continue to improve delivery performance Customer Segment revenue Financial review Generally rising commodity prices saw million an increase in input costs, most notably Our Uncoated Fine Paper business for wood and energy in Europe and delivered another strong performance, 1,832m South Africa.
generating underlying operating profit of 331 million and ROCE of 27.8%.
Higher maintenance costs, inflationary 1,840 1,832 1,764 1,722 1,720 Higher average selling prices were achieved cost pressures on the cash fixed cost across all regions on stable volumes, partly base and a higher depreciation charge offsetting the negative impact of a lower were also seen across the business, fair value gain on our forestry assets down mitigated by our continued focus on driving 21 million year-on-year and higher costs.
We estimate European market demand The forestry assets fair value is dependent was flat year-on-year, above our expected on a variety of external factors over which 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 long-term trend of 1% to 2% decline per we have limited control, the most significant annum.
Demand in Russia and South Africa being the export price of timber and the was in line with our long-term estimate of exchange rate.
Moderate increases in Underlying operating profit 0% to 1% growth per annum.
export prices, resulted in a fair value gain million of 43 million being recognised in the Average benchmark European uncoated year, 21 million lower than the unusually fine paper selling prices were similar to the 331m high gain recognised in the prior year.
prior year and 2% up in the second half of ROCE While difficult to estimate, should the the year compared to the first half following 375 current strength in the South African rand 341 the implementation of price increases during 331 prevail, we would expect a significantly the period.
Supported by steady demand, lower fair value gain in 2018.
224 227 reduced imports, supply disruptions in Europe and cost pressures, a price increase Planned maintenance shuts were of up to 5% was implemented in January completed at Syktyvkar in the first half 2018.
Uncoated fine paper domestic selling of the year, and at Ruomberok and prices were increased in Russia and South Neusiedler Austria in the second half of the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Africa towards the end of 2017 to offset year.
In 2018, our Syktyvkar and Richards domestic inflation.
Further price increases Bay South Africa shuts are planned for the have been announced across our range first half of the year and the remaining shuts of uncoated fine papers in Europe, Russia are scheduled for the second half.
and South Africa for implementation from the end of March 2018.
Discussions are underway and the actual price increases achieved remain subject to individual negotiations with customers.
15.0% 17.0% 27.0% 32.3% 27.8% Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 77 Drive performance along Inspire our people This collaboration has allowed us to thevalue chain andgrow responsibly sign a landmark voluntary agreement between Mondi, WWF Russia and During the year we kept our focus on We remain committed to providing a safe Silver Taiga to protect the core areas of driving the performance of our operations and healthy workplace for our employees Intact Forest Landscapes in our Russian and reducing waste.
Efforts to optimise and contractors.
We sincerely regret forestry operations.
machine performance and increase the fatality of a contractor at our South efficiency and productivity continued African forestry operations in February We have an extensive community leading to record production at two of 2017 following a timber vehicle incident.
engagement and investment programme our pulp mills and three of our paper and We also experienced one life-altering focused on areas around our mills and pulp drying machines.
We made ongoing injury when a contractor lost sight in one people living on our forestry land.
A key productivity improvements at our forestry eye due to the incorrect use of an angle initiative in South Africa is the Mkhondo operations in Russia and South Africa, and grinder during the annual Syktyvkar shut.
Development Project, a pioneering publicat Syktyvkar we also focused on improving In addition, a forestry worker was reported private partnership set up to improve the our administrative processes.
missing presumed deceased during living conditions of people living in isolated cleaning activities on the Vychedga river villages on our forestry land, and to find We continue to optimise our product mix near Syktyvkar.
Thorough investigations sustainable solutions to alleviate poverty.
in line with customer demand through are conducted after all incidents and action strengthening the capabilities of our mill plans have been implemented across Partner with customers for innovation network.
In order to improve the efficiency Mondi to prevent any repeat incidents.
of our logistics, we have launched a new During the year, we launched the Our 2017 TRCR is below the limit we set folio sheeter at our Neusiedler mill and myMondi initiative, a web-based solution for ourselves and we continue to strive to conducted an extensive supply chain providing customers with detailed product achieve a culture and safety performance review in order to improve our delivery information, the ability to place and track where everybody works safely and returns capability and provide higher delivery orders, and functionality to enquire and home safely every day.
follow up on product and order-related Our additional focus on contractor safety queries.
This easy-to-use, 24 7 service was Due to the accelerated rate of local demand management and implementation of positively received by customers during decline, we ceased production of newsprint Mondis risk assessment methodology the pilot phase resulting in it being rolled at our Merebank mill at the end of the year.
across all our sites aims to ensure safe out to a wider range of customers during During the third quarter we restarted an annual maintenance shuts and projects in the second half of the year.
We plan to give idled uncoated fine paper machine at the 2018.
We have placed special emphasis all customers access by the third quarter same site, which will produce annually on engineering out risks related to moving of 2018.
Quarterly updates have, and will around 70,000 tonnes of uncoated fine and rotating machinery.
Our focus on top continue to, further enhance this service paper to serve the local market.
risks has contributed to our improved and provide the best solution to meet performance over the years and as a our customers needs, while identifying Invest in assets with cost advantage result, we will continue this approach.
efficiency gain opportunities and related Our investments in modernising the power The majority of our first line managers benefits internally.
plant and waste water treatment plant at have completed our tailor-made safety and During 2017 our cloud-based CRM Syktyvkar are progressing well.
The rebuilt health programme, and all safety and health platform, Cloud for Customer, evolved.
power plant will replace three existing bark professionals complete a four-module inThis tool, launched in 2016, was enhanced boilers and four turbines with a single new depth specialist training.
during the year by adding new functionality, bark boiler and turbine providing process We continue to improve the environmental reinforcing and promoting existing simplification, improved reliability, reduced performance of our operations.
At capabilities and highlighting its analytical costs, reduced natural gas consumption Ruomberok we invested in further odour potential.
These developments support our and increased use of biomass for energy.
abatement initiatives including odour from ongoing commitment to finding solutions The waste water treatment plant investment the mills waste water treatment plant.
that maximise benefits for both our aims to significantly improve waste water customers and our business.
quality and reduce chemical oxygen Working in partnership with NGOs, demand and total suspended solids.
government and business is central to our These projects are on track with completion approach.
We are proud of our progress expected in early 2019 and late 2018, in protecting Intact Forest Landscapes respectively.
as these large unfragmented areas, undisturbed by roads or other significant As part of our plan to maintain Syktyvkars human infrastructure, are globally competitiveness and increase saleable recognised as priority protection areas.
production by around 100,000 tonnes In Russia we have partnered with WWF per annum in the medium term, we are Russia and Silver Taiga to identify and investing to debottleneck production and protect these areas in the Komi Republic.
Governance Introduction from Joint Chairmen 80 Board of directors 82 Corporate governance report 84 DLC nominations committee 94 DLC audit committee 97 DLC sustainable development committee 105 Mondi Limited social and ethics committee 107 DLC executive committee 108 Remuneration report 113 Other statutory information 134 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our flexible paper bag is the next generation in sustainable courier express solutions, enabling a faster packaging process and lower logistic costs.
