AND STRATEGY BUSINESS REVIEW Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 BUsiness revieW anD strateGY BUSINESS MODEL Our business model generates earnings predominately through acquiring and owning hotels and managing them profitably over the long term.
this distinctive owner operator model allows a significant proportion of hotel revenue to flow directly to the bottom line as profit and allows us to retain control over our property assets.
in some destinations, where real estate ownership is less attractive for fiscal, legal or other reasons, we may operate hotels under management contracts or franchise agreements or through joint ventures.
STRATEGY Our strategy is to maximise returns on shareholders capital, whilst growing the business through asset acquisition, prudent investment in the existing hotel portfolio and the development of our people, processes and technology.
Our strategic focus has always been on prime locations within gateway cities - destinations that naturally attract a large number of business and leisure travellers.
Our strategic priorities in 2017 were to strengthen the Groups STRATEGY IN ACTION ability to manage the change that is transforming global hospitality markets, not least through the impact of disruptive technologies, and to tackle the specific challenges that we face in certain markets.
We completed a review of the senior executive management structure and created new leadership positions in marketing and sales, technology and human resources, whilst also strengthening regional leadership.
the Board was focussed on re-positioning key hotels in the global portfolio, such as millennium hotel London mayfair, and developing a strategy to restore profitability to our new York business, which will take some time and investment to achieve.
the Group continued to review and streamline its corporate processes, thereby aiding cost control, and sought to enhance its capital efficiency.
We also continued to develop our brand presence, especially in the China market and the business travel sector.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 7 modify certain aspects of the development, the final phase of the refurbishment of Hotel operations which is anticipated to take about 18 Grand millennium Kuala Lumpur, relating hotel revenue increased by 66m or 8.1% months to complete after commencement.
to the guestrooms at levels 7 and 8, is to 880m 2016: 814m mainly because of Final planning approval for the project was under review.
Guest rooms on levels 9 to 19 favourable foreign exchange movements received in December 2016. were completed in late 2016. of 39m.
in constant currency, hotel revenue grew by 27m or 3.2% due largely management continues to explore options in October 2017, the 190-room m social to full-year contributions from two new and in relation to the freehold site occupied by auckland previously known as Copthorne refurbished properties in new York and the millennium hotel st. Louis, which was hotel auckland harbourcity was opened auckland.
Otherwise hotel revenue was closed in January 2014. and benefited from keen demand for the flat compared to last year.
hotels innovative design, social spaces Hotel refurbishments and service ethos.
initial feedback from key Group revPar increased by 7.9% and 3.2% Phased refurbishment work on millennium markets, including international and new in reported currency and constant currency hotel London mayfair commenced in the Zealand business and leisure travellers has respectively.
hotel gross operating margin fourth quarter of 2017 and is scheduled been positive.
to complete in Q2 2019. refurbishment of millennium hotel London Knightsbridge is Acquisitions Developments planned to commence next year.
On 4 may 2017, CDL hospitality trusts the Group received building permit CDLht completed the acquisition of the approval for the Yangdong development refurbishment of 260 deluxe guest rooms 165-room the Lowry hotel in manchester project in seoul on 25 January 2017. in the Orchard Wing of the Orchard for a purchase consideration of 53m.
Construction is intended to commence after hotel singapore has been re-scheduled fine-tuning the design for optimal efficiency.
to commence in the second half of this On 14 July 2017, CDLht completed the year to accommodate customer demand.
acquisition of an effective interest of 94.5% the Group continues to review the project refurbishment is also planned for the in the 337-room Pullman hotel munich and cost and specification for a 263-room hotel lobby area and F&B outlets at the ground and a 250-unit residential apartment block its office and retail components and the level.
renovation of the hotels hua ting 2 fixtures, furniture and equipment used by on its 35,717m mixed use freehold landsite restaurant, which started in august 2017, is at sunnyvale, California, and intends to complete, with the facility re-opened on 7 the hotel for a purchase consideration of start construction in 2018. the Group may December 2017.
Hua Ting Restaurant at Orchard Hotel Singapore AND STRATEGY COntinUeD BUSINESS REVIEW HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 BUsiness revieW anD strateGY COntinUeD On 1 February 2018, the Group acquired the Waterfront hotel in new Plymouth, new Zealand, for a purchase consideration of nZ$11m 6m.
the iconic 42-room hotel will be rebranded a millennium hotel in Q2 of 2018.
Disposals the Group continues to engage with the developer of Birminghams Paradise Circus redevelopment scheme, under previously agreed commercial arrangements, regarding the closure and acquisition The Lowry Hotel, by the developer of the Copthorne hotel Manchester Birmingham and possible acquisition by the Group of an alternative site for development of a new hotel within the scheme.
in march 2017 scottish ministers approved an order that allows network rail infrastructure Limited network rail to take permanently and to demolish the 1970s-built, 51-room extension of the millennium hotel Glasgow, in connection with the redevelopment of Queen street station.
in July 2017, 56 guestrooms were permanently removed from the hotel in connection with the development.
the property now has 60 guestrooms compared to 116 previously.
Pullman Hotel Munich and office & retail components the Group is entitled to compensation, which will either be negotiated with network rail or settled at the Lands On 1 February 2018, FsGL together with Other Group operations tribunal.
separation and other works four other co-investors acquired all the Joint ventures and associates contributed arising from the order were completed issued shares of hotelmaatschappij 22m to profit in 2017 2016: 26m.
the at the end of 2017, with demolition of the rotterdam B. v. which owns the 254-room Group has an effective interest of 36% in extension anticipated to commence in Q1 hilton rotterdam hotel in the netherlands, First sponsor Group Limited FsGL, which 2018. the Group is continuing to consider for 51m 45m.
Following the completion is listed on the singapore exchange and its options with respect to the refurbishment of the transaction, FsGL has a 24.7% reports its results independently.
of the remaining hotel areas.
interest in the acquired company.
On 11 January 2018, a partnership comprised On 7 February 2018, the Group provided On 11 January 2018, CDLht completed of a subsidiary of FsGL together with an irrevocable undertaking to take up its the divestment of two hotels in australia, subsidiaries of CDL and another substantial full entitlement of FsGLs proposed rights the mercure Brisbane and ibis Brisbane shareholder of FsGL acquired a 300-room issue of new perpetual convertible capital for a$77m 45m to an independent hotel currently operated by a tenant as securities for a total cost of s$58m 32m third party.
accordingly these investment Le meridien Frankfurt for 79m 70m, and a proportion of the excess rights not properties were reclassified as assets excluding certain transaction related subscribed by other shareholders for a cost held for sale on the balance sheet as at expenses.
