Strategic Report | Business Review Business Review Contents 41 UK Home 44 Distributed Energy & Power 41 Ireland 45 Energy Marketing & Trading 42 North America Home 45 Central Power Generation 42 Connected Home 46 Exploration & Production 43 UK Business 47 Centrica Storage 43 North America Business 40 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Total energy customer account holdings fell 572million.
Energy gross margin reduced UK Home by 1,376,000, or 10%, during 2017, including by 4%, reflecting the impact of warmer Our leading position in UK energy supply the roll-off of 967,000 low-margin collective weather, lower customer account holdings andservices remains core to our business switch and white-label fixed price tariffs.
The and the implementation ofthe prepayment and we are making good progress on our remaining 409,000 account losses include cap which came into effect in April 2017 as transformational journey to improve 195,000 prepayment customers, with the aresult of the Competition and Markets customer service levels, reduce costs remaining 214,000 reflecting market Authority remedies.
However, these negative anddevelop propositions to expand and switching trends.
Within this, in line with our impacts were more than offset by strong deepen relationships with households.
strategy to reduce the number of customers cost efficiency progress.
Services gross on the Standard Variable Tariff SVT, we saw margin was down 10%, which includes the Delivering high levels of customer service a14% drop in SVT account holdings and impact of an increase inpension costs and isfundamental and total energy supply anincrease in the number of customers on lower average customer account holdings complaints fell by 224,000, or 20% per British Gas fixed-term tariffs.
The number of through the year.
However, cost efficiency 100,000 customers, as we continued to services accounts was flat, with growth of progress wasstrong and as aresult, invest in transforming customer journeys 77,000 in the second half of the year operating profit was down by less, by4% andagent training.
However, the number reflecting an increased focus onoffers to247million.
of services complaints increased by around targeted at higher value energy customers 31,000, or 30% per 100,000 customers, and the deployment of digital offers to reflecting operational disruption following Ireland partner channels.
thecentralisation of planning and dispatch Our Irish business, Bord Gis Energy, Our UK services business completed activities.
Our engineer customer visit net performed well in 2017, and, as in the UK ninemillion customer visits in 2017 and promoter score NPS remained high at 67 andNorth America, we are offering a wider remains a source of competitive advantage and we remain highly focused on improving choice of products to our customers.
in the UK given ournationwide scale which customer service levels in 2018.
UK Home isvery difficult toreplicate.
In 2017, we further Brand NPS reduced by 2pts to 1, reflecting We continue to focus on customer service, strengthened our services offer with the UK the impact ofour standard tariff electricity with increased training, robotics process nationwide launch of our technology-led price increase in September and a broader automation and enhancements to our Local Heroes on demand services platform, negative sentiment surrounding UK customer-facing IT platforms all contributing which plays towards the market trend of energysuppliers.
to an 18% reduction in complaints.
We also more customers seeking on demand and Cost efficiency is also fundamental in successfully upgraded our enterprise billing home emergency offers.
Local Heroes allowing us to maintain a competitive pricing platform inthe year, which will support provides customers with access to local position.
Annualised cost per home account increased digitisation over the coming years.
tradespeople backed by a British Gas fell by 8% compared to 2016, with efficiencies NPS fell by 3 points to 17, reflecting a guarantee, and growth accelerated realised through our new operating model morenegative customer perception of throughout 2017, with over 7,000 including the combination of multiple energy suppliers following the fourth quarter tradespeople signed up and 25,000 jobs customer operations teams into one priceincreases.
organisation, lower incoming call volumes Total customer account holdings fell by In the fourth quarter we developed new resulting from investment in our digital 13,000, or 2%, reflecting increased market customer offers targeted at increasing platform which has made it easier to competition, including from new entrants into customer value, including the launch of complete transactions online, consolidation the market.
However, electricity customer ouronline-only tariff, bundling energy with of our planning and dispatch activities, and account holdings increased by 7,000, or 2%, services or connected home products and the integration of seven separate field forces as we successfully converted more of our more sophisticated risk-based services into one.
Our leaner, more efficient operating customers to a dual fuel offering.
We will continue to develop these model has also enabled us to improve our and North America, we are offering a wider offers further in 2018.
We launched British speed to take new offers to market, for choice of products to our customers and Gas Rewards in April, whichuses our data to example digital, rewards and bundling.
having launched our range of Hive automation gain a deeper understanding of customer products in Ireland in the first half of the year, preferences andallows customers to select we arefocused on building brand awareness personalised offers, like loyalty energy days.
around our Connected Home propositions.
Over 700,000 customers have signed up to date and weare already seeing greater Whitegate, our flexible gas fired power customer engagement, with retention rates station, recorded another good performance, 1.5ppt higher for customers signed up to with a load factor of 85% and total generation British Gas Rewards.
We continue to lead the industry in the smart meter roll-out and have now installed around Adjusted operating profit was up 2% fivemillion smart meters in UK homes, compared to 2016, although down 4% providing customers with additional insight in local currency.
This reflects the impact on their energy usage and bringing an end of a competitive environment, which was toestimated bills for customers, reducing the broadly offset by cost efficiencies and good number of calls we receive relating to billing performance from our trading and power and meter reading queries.
Adjusted operating cash flow was down 26% compared to 2016, which Overall UK Home adjusted operating profit benefited from a one-off payment related to was up 1% to 819million, within which the cessation of a gas storage contract.
energy supply profit was up 3% to Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 41 Strategic Report | Business Review Business Review continued We are focused on differentiating our We sold 373,000 connected hubs in 2017, North America Home customer offer and developing bundled taking the total number installed to 900,000.
As in the UK, energy supply and services propositions.
Direct Energy is currently akey Hive products are now being sold through remains core to our customer offer in channel for Hive products in North America around 50 retailers in the UK and we have NorthAmerica and we are well positioned with 80,000 Hive hubs having been sold with sold over 1.6 million Connected Home toexpand and deepen relationships an energy supply tariff.
In 2017, 21% of products intotal, with the number of withhouseholds.
energy sales were bundled with one or more products per hubincreasing to 1.8 by the product or offer, such asa protection plan or end of 2017 compared to 1.4 atthe start We remain focused on improving the a Hive product, compared to 17% in 2016. ofthe year.
sustainability of our business in our chosen North America Home adjusted operating We now have 94,000 customers on markets by improving customer service profit increased by 28% and adjusted subscription offers or payment plans.
levels, reducing costs and developing operating cash flow was up 5%.
Within this, Thisincludes 51,000 Boiler IQ, which uses innovative and differentiated offers.
energy supply gross margin was up 2% sensors to remotely diagnose boiler faults, We delivered further improvements in despite the fall in customer account holdings, and 43,000 on Hive propositions including customer service in 2017, with additional reflecting our focus on more valuable Welcome Home, Close to Home and our training provided for our customer service customer segments, while adjusted heating and cooling plans in the UK, Ireland agents to improve customer interactions, operating profit was up 6% which includes and North America.
These propositions and enhancements to our digital platform the benefit of cost efficiencies.
Services enable customers to personalise, control enabling improved self-serve capability.
gross margin was down by 7% reflecting the andinteract with their home through the Hive These actions contributed to a 22% closure of the solar business, which when product range.
reduction in complaints compared to 2016, combined with other actions taken to Gross revenue increased by 27% to while our online reputation improved improve efficiency resulted in a reduced 42million, reflecting increased sales of significantly.
Brand NPS also increased inthe adjusted operating loss.
hubsand products from our more diverse second half of the yearand ended 1pt higher product range, with gross margins remaining than attheend of 2016. attractive at around 20%.
Connected Home Connected Home Cost efficiency remains a core priority.
reported an increased adjusted operating Our Connected Home business is utilising The integration of our energy and services loss and adjusted operating cash outflow, technology to provide offers that meet business combined with the disposal of nonreflecting higher investment in product and customer needs across the strategic pillars core businesses in 2016 has allowed us to platform development, appuser experience of peace of mind, home energy management simplify our processes further, reduce and customer acquisition costs.
headcount and consolidate office locations.
We have now closed or sold a number of loss-making services businesses in nonIt is also an important source of core markets and have completed our exit differentiation for our energy and services from the residential solar market, which we businesses and the NPS for British Gas announced in July.
Centricas participation customers who have a Hive product is incommercial solar in North America will 10points higher than those who do not.
continue as a part of the Distributed Energy In 2017, we launched three new products, & Power fide&P customer offering.
Overall, theHive Camera, Hive Leak and, in North annualised cost per home account fell by 2%.
America, the Hive Active Thermostat with The total number of energy supply accounts air-conditioning: while in January 2018 we fell by 327,000, or 11%, during 2017.
In the launched our new camera, Hive View.
These US North East, customer account holdings new products take Connected Home more fell by 18%, driven by a competitive pricing deeply into the peace of mind pillar, as we environment and the loss of 108,000 lowdeepen our diagnostics capability to provide margin aggregated auction customers.
additional comfort to home owners.
InTexas, customer account holdings were Additional planned product, proposition down 7% due to competitive pressure and andfeature launches in 2018 will strengthen apause of door-to-door sales due to our customer offer further.
However, in the second The full range of Hive automation products half of the year customer retention improved was launched in North America and Ireland in Texas, compared to the second half of during the year, while we also signed our 2016, reflecting higher levels of customer firststrategic partnership deal outside of service and proactive renewal of customers ourcore energy and services markets.
InCanada, regulatory partnership with Italian energy company changes required ustocease our door-toEnigas e luce will provide their 8 million door sales channel which contributed to a customers in Italy with access to the full customer account decline of6%.
However, range of Hive home automation products.
we have now entered into a number of retail We continue to integrate with other partnerships that will expand our number of connected home eco-systems, including sales channels.
Services customer account through our successful partnership with holdings were broadly flat compared to Amazon Echo, where 23% of our customers 2016, although within thispaid Direct Energy have used Alexa, Amazons voice assistant, protection plans rose 18%.
42 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We continue to expand our offering into UK Business North America Business newgeographies and delivered higher sales UK Business adjusted operating profit fell North America Business delivered a poor in our key growth areas of the US Midsignificantly in 2017. financial result in the second half of the year, Continent, California and Canada.
Overall, with adjusted gross margin down 26% and total customer account holdings reduced by adjusted operating profit down 68%.
This reflects the negative impacts of 20,000 during 2017, which reflects a focus additional costs resulting from commodity on higher value accounts and a reduction in volatility and energy volume settlements in The drivers of lower gross margin were our small business accounts.
However, the the first quarter of 2017, relating to 2016, primarily in the power retail business.
Total competitive environment impacted our sold warmer weather and the impact of increased power adjusted gross margin was down unit margins, down 20% in power and 22% competition on customer account holdings.
51%, reflecting increased competitive in gas for new contracts.
intensity, changes to the market structure The combination of these factors resulted An increased focus on energy efficiency has and related input costs, including higher unit ina 30% fall in gross margin in 2017, lowered power usage per customer across capacity charges, and the impact of warmer whichwasonly partially offset by further the industry and we are well positioned to weather on consumption and a subsequent costefficiencies and reductions in bad benefit from this market trend, with North under recovery of unitised non-commodity debt, thelatter enabled by improved America Business working closely with the costs.
The financial result also includes a oneoperational performance.
fide&P business to develop joint propositions off non-cash charge of 76 million 46million Operationally, UK Business delivered to deepen thecustomer relationship.
North post-tax relating to a reassessment of improved customer outcomes in 2017, America Business continues to be an thehistoric recognition of unbilled power withbetter timeliness and accuracy of important sales channel for distributed revenues.
In addition, warmer weather customer bills.
This helped drive an 8% energy products, including Panoramic reduced opportunities for gas optimisation, reduction in call volumes and a 24% Powers wireless energy insight management however, our gas retail business performed reduction in complaints compared to 2016. solutions.
Over 11,000 sensors were well and overall gas gross margin was However, customer account holdings fell deployed to Direct Energy customers in slightlyup.
64,000 or 9%, with around half the losses 2017.
We are also planning toexpand our In response to the challenges we faced inIndustrial and Commercial, reflecting our combined heat and power offering in North in2017, we have taken actions to drive decision not to pursue renewal of some America following the acquisition of ENER-G improvements in profitability and reduce lowvalue multi-site contracts, but also Cogen in 2016, whilethe fide&P acquisition volatility in the retail power book.
The ofdemand response company REstore include introducing a new standard product remaining losses were of small and medium provides additional capability.
offering that more closely matches input SME customers, reflecting competitive North America Business reported a 68% costrecovery, completion of system intensity with 67 active competitors and fallin adjusted operating profit and a 69% enhancements to provide greater granularity highlevels of switching activity.
reduction in adjusted operating cash flow.
of gross margin drivers, and improvements Against this competitive backdrop, we are Around half of the reduction in adjusted to the processes and controls around our focusing our retention and acquisition operating profit reflects the impact of the load forecasting and risk management activities on the higher value SME segments, competitive environment, warmer weather, reporting.
We also implemented several continuing to build relationships with energy fewer optimisation opportunities and the enhancements to our online customer brokers and improving our customer portal impact of higher capacity costs, with the platform during 2017, with improved facilities to allow them to manage their whole other half reflecting the one-off non-cash response times on issue resolution and an portfolio online.
This has led to an increase charge.
In 2018, we are focused on enhanced digital journey for acquisitions inbroker-led acquisitions, which should aid continuing to deliver a high-quality customer helping improve the customer experience.
In 2018, experience, targeted offers for higher value Our digital Energy Portfolio platform, weexpect some recovery in gross margin customer segments and offering an launched in the second half of 2016, has also given a more normal weather and increasing range of fide&P products and given customers direct access to our energy commodity environment, and, combined propositions.
However, we expect to see expertise while providing dynamic energy withfurther cost efficiency, expect adjusted continued competitive pressure on electricity procurement options.
In addition, we made operating profit to improve towards the levels supply margins and, therefore, growth in improvements to our billing processes and, seen in 2016. adjusted operating profit will be limited, after reflecting all of this, complaints fell 38% adjusting for the impact of the one-off noncompared to 2016 and NPS increased by Adjusted operating profit of 4 million was cash charge.
2 points to 33. down 92% in 2017, reflecting the additional costs inthe first quarter, warmer weather and lower customer account holdings, partly offset by cost efficiencies and bad debt reductions.
Working capital management hasremained a key area of focus, and reflecting this, adjusted operating cash flow was 131million despite the material reduction inoperating profit.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 43 Strategic Report | Business Review Business Review continued markets.
Through this acquisition, demand fide&P gross revenue increased by 6% Distributed Energy & Power response aggregation will become a core compared to 2016, and by 34% on an Distributed Energy & Power fide&P is part of our offer to customers, and fide&Ps underlying basis when reflecting the impacts focused on the three Centrica Business optimisation capacity has now increased of the disposal of the non-core building strategic pillars of energy insight, energy to1.9GW.
energy management systems business and optimisation and energy solutions.
the scaling back of our UK solar business In energy solutions, fide&P now has over following the removal of thefeed-in-tariff.
1,400 long-term contracted sites and active Since the formation of the fide&P business This growth reflects the organic increase solutions, mostly CHP-based, in 13 countries, unit in the second half of 2015, we have incustomer sites and afull year impact from having sold both off-the-shelf and bespoke grown our capability both organically and ENER-G Cogen, which was acquired in May end-to-end solutions.
The targeted acquisitions of 2016. fide&P reported an increased adjusted expanded our distributed solutions offering Panoramic Power, REstore and ENER-G operating loss of 53 million and an in North America, which will be a major focus Cogen provide us with strong positions in increased adjusted operating cash outflow area for growth.
each of the three strategic pillars and enable of30 million, reflecting increased us to capitalise on the global trend towards In total, the number of fide&P active customer headcount to build new capability and higher distributed energy and to develop a range sites has increased by 22% over the past investment in the development of new of products and services to meet the needs 12 months, with growth particularly strong in customer propositions, sales channels and of customers.
Total secured revenue, our technology to drive growth.
We expect fide&P forward order book, increased 24% in 2017.
Our subscription-based Panoramic Power to deliver continued revenue and gross energy insight product provides customers margin growth in 2018, although we will fide&P also includes our fleet of smaller gas with real-time visibility of their energy usage continue to make further investment to drive fired peaking plants at Brigg, Peterborough plus actionable insights.
We now have this growth and therefore expect the current and Barry.
Construction is progressing well 53,000 sensors deployed across more than year operating loss to be similar to 2017. on our three new flexible generation projects, 1,800 sites in 30 countries and are collecting a 49MW battery storage facility at Roosecote around 14 billion data points permonth.
and two 50MW fast response gas fired Ithas proved successful in changing the plants at Brigg and Peterborough.
All three dynamic of the conversation with customers have 15-year capacity contracts starting in and provides opportunities to cross-sell October 2020 and were successful in the energy optimisation and solutions services.
We acquired REstore, Europes leading We continue to innovate in Local Energy demand response aggregator, in November.
Markets and now have over 300 homes and REstore provides key capabilities in energy businesses registered to take part in our optimisation and provides over 850MW of three-year trial in Cornwall.
In 2017 we flexible power capacity to grid operators.
installed the largest flow battery in the UK Thepower is aggregated from a 2.2GW and in 2018 we expect to install storage flexibleportfolio of industrial and commercial andsolar PV in 100 homes and commence customers across Belgium, the UK, France larger installations ofstorage, renewables and Germany and generates value for and distributed generation across up to businesses through ancillary services 15businesses as part of the trial.
including frequency response and capacity 44 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 transact multiple free on board and delivered EM&T adjusted operating profit was Energy Marketing & Trading ex-ship cargoes from a range of locations 104million in 2017 compared to Energy Marketing & Trading EM&T is focused globally.
In November, we traded our 161million in 2016, although, after on the Centrica Business strategic pillars of hundredth cargo outside the UK, just three excluding the contribution from the flexible energy optimisation and wholesale energy.
years after trading our first cargo.
legacy gas contracts, adjusted operating profit associated with core EM&T activities EM&T has major flexible legacy gas contracts In addition to expanding its route to market increased by 58% to 68million.
This and associated hedges with take or pay offers, global LNG presence, and trading and underlying increase reflects further strong arrangements, where the payments are optimisation activities across Europe, EM&T trading and optimisation and route-to-market made for gas even if delivery isdeferred to continues to serve its core purpose of performance and a full years impact of the future periods.
These were inherited by managing commodity profit risk and Neas Energy acquisition.
Adjusted operating Centrica on demerger and are part of an providing wholesale market access for cash flow increased by 32% to 262million, overall profitable Centrica portfolio.
predominantly reflecting thetiming of cash and cash flow from these contracts and The acquisition of Neas Energy in October flows associated with theflexible gas hedges will vary between periods based on 2016 has enhanced EM&Ts capabilities and contracts between 2016 and2017.
the commodity price environment and geographical reach, as well as giving EM&T decisions we take to optimise them.
In 2017, access to Neas advanced optimisation Central Power Generation the three remaining contracts and platform, Neas Direct, which provides With our focus for growth on distributed associated hedging generated 36million hedging and optimisation strategies and energy and flexible generation, we made ofgross margin, having made 118million route to market services to our customers.
ofgross margin in 2016, reflecting our take further significant progress in 2017 to reduce EM&T now serves customers who own orpay strategy to maximise the contracts the scale of our Central Power Generation decentralised assets with installed capacity business in line with our strategy.
During 2018, the two of around 10GW, predominantly in Denmark, historically most profitable flexible legacy the UK, Germany and Sweden, enabling gascontracts will end, leaving one contract them to access our expertise to capture In February 2017, we completed our exit which expires in 2025 and is currently value and provide flexibility services to their fromwind power generation with the expected to be loss-making based on the assets.
Neas Energy has performed ahead disposal of our 50% interest in the Lincs current level of gas prices.
As a result, we of expectations since its acquisition, and it Wind Farm for 214million.
The sale resulted currently expect 2018 EM&T adjusted delivered a strong trading and optimisation in anexceptional pre-tax profit on disposal of operating profit to be no more thanhalf the result in 2017, particularly in the first half of 64million post-tax 58million.
This contract will continue to be the year during periods of power volatility we completed the sale ofour large combined managed for value and we will look to utilise inNorthern European markets.
cycle gas turbines CCGTs atLangage and the contract optionality to capture favourable South Humber Bank and the Kings Lynn B In LNG, we continue to expand our global market conditions as theyarise.
CCGT development project for 314million business in advance of the first delivery in total, which resulted in a total pre-tax fromour contract with Cheniere, which is exceptional profit of 8million post-tax expected in September 2019 from the 5million, comprising animpairment write Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana.
We have back and a small loss ondisposal.
built a full range of LNG trading, optimisation and operations capability and continue to Centrica retains a 20% equity interest in the entity which owns and operates the eight nuclear stations in the UK.
Our share of nuclear generation volumes remained high at12.8TWh, the second highest output achieved since our investment in 2009.
However, this was 2% lower than in 2016, reflecting slightly higher unplanned outages.
Central Power Generation adjusted operating profit was 35million, 53% lower than 2016.
This was primarily driven by alower achieved power price for Nuclear, including the impact of historic hedging, andthe impact of our exit from wind power generation.
Adjusted operating cash flow was 58million compared to an outflow of 1million in2016, with positive movements in working capital in comparison to 2016, more than offsetting a reduction in Nuclear dividends received.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 45 Strategic Report | Business Review Business Review continued In 2018, we currently expect Spirit Energy to production volumes, this resulted in Exploration & Production deliver production in the range 5055mmboe European unit lifting and other cash In line with our strategy, we now have while progressing several key projects.
For the astronger, more sustainable Exploration Fabrication contracts have been awarded period in which the assets in Canada and &Production E&P business focused and drilling commenced on the Oda project, Trinidad and Tobago were owned, Americas onEurope.
which remains on target to produce first oil in unit lifting and other cash production costs 2019, while appraisal drilling will commence were 47% higher, principally reflecting the Following the disposal of our assets in at the Fogelberg discovery.
We also expect impact of the decline in sterling, higher Canada and Trinidad and Tobago during that a Field Development Plan for the Nova royalty and pipeline tariffs and the nontheyear, on 8 December Spirit Energy was development, previously named Skarfjell, repeat of someone-off savings in 2016. launched, a newly formed entity combining willbe finalised during 2018.
Adjusted operating profit of 184million was Centricas E&P business with that of Reflecting the net impact of the Spirit Energy broadly flat compared to 2016, with higher Bayerngas Norge.
The transaction creates transaction, and reserve additions on a achieved prices offsetting the impact aleading independent European E&P number of fields including Chiswick and oflower production, higher cash costs business with an attractive mix of producing Maria not fully offsetting production during andhigher depreciation including that assets and development projects.
Centrica the year, Centricas net share of 2P reserves associated with Cygnus production.
owns 69% of the new business, and will in Europe, excluding reserves at Rough, fell by Adjusted operating cash flow fell 32% to consolidate 100% of the financial result.
59mmboe to 251mmboe at the end of 2017.
448million despite the flat operating profit, The sale of our remaining portfolio of reflecting higher decommissioning spend European total lifting and other cash gasassets in Trinidad and Tobago was and higher cash taxes due to the phasing production costs increased by 9% completed in May for $35million 26million, ofNorwegian payments between years.
compared to 2016, with the decline in which resulted in a preand post-tax Thebusiness was again free cash flow sterling and the impact of Cygnus coming exceptional loss on disposal of 9million.
positive in2017, generating 298million on-stream more than offsetting cost Weannounced the disposal of our interest when excluding 78million of cash acquired efficiency benefits.
Combined with lower inthe joint venture portfolio of assets in Canada in June, and thesale was completed in September for C$420million 255million, leading to total pre-tax exceptional loss on disposal and impairment charges of 125million post-tax 109million.
Total gas and liquids production of 61.0mmboe was down 14% compared to2016 principally due to the sale of assets inCanada and Trinidad and Tobago.
Production in Europe was down 5%, or6%when excluding Bayerngas Norge production following the launch of Spirit Energy.
This principally reflects lower production from Morecambe due to our decision to undertake onshore and offshore asset integrity works to improve safety, operational efficiency and underpin the residual life of the asset.
Excluding Morecambe, the natural decline from the rest of the portfolio was fully offset by the positive impact of a first full year of production from the Cygnus gas field, which came onstream in December 2016 and is performing ahead of expectations.
We continue to focus our investment on the most attractive development options in our portfolio.
Drilling operations at the Maria development commenced in the first quarter 2017, with first oil achieved in December, ayear ahead of schedule and with total project costs around 20% lower than the business case.
Further infill wells were drilled at Statfjord and Kvitebjrn in Norway and Chestnut in the UK.
Overall, 2017 capital expenditure was down 15% to 439million, which reflects the impact of reduced spend on Cygnus.
46 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 through the Spirit Energy transaction.
This of gas in order to reduce pressure on the includes 289million ofdisposal proceeds, wells to ensure that risks associated with with adjusted operating cash flow broadly operating the reservoir are as low as offsetting capitalexpenditure during the year.
Consent was granted We also recognised pre-tax exceptional in September, and 25bcf of gas was sold in impairments of 494million post-tax 2017, with production continuing into 2018.
162million oncertain fields, predominantly CSL will now operate Rough as a gas due to reduction in price forecasts and production asset to maximise recovery of changes to expected decommissioning theestimated 142bcf of reserves remaining costs following the conclusion of the triennial in the field as at the end of 2017.
Production review, partially offset by the recognition of in2018 is currently forecast to be 56bcf.
aPRT deferred tax asset reversing a prior CSL gross revenue increased by59% period impairment.
In addition, there has to148million, reflecting 2017 production been a pre-tax reduction in decommissioning volumes from the Rough asset being provisions of 86million post-tax 51million materially higher than the 9bcf of cushion for assets previously impaired through gas sold in 2016.
This was partially offset exceptional items.
byminimal SBU revenue due to the reduced available capacity of the reservoir for the Centrica Storage 2016 17 storage year as a result of the well In January 2018, Centrica Storage CSL integrity issues and no SBUs being sold for received consent from the Oil and Gas the 2017 18 storage year.
With total costs Authority to produce all recoverable gas down 9% due to lower fuel gas usage reserves from the Rough asset which, reflecting the reduced operations at following the Competition and Markets Roughand reduced operating costs to Authoritys final decision to remove CSL reflect the changing status of the asset, CSL fromthe Undertakings, finalises the change recognised an adjusted operating profit of in Roughs status from a storage facility to 17million in 2017 compared to aloss of aproducing asset.
Adjusted operating cash flow was 61million, which included working capital inflows resulting from the sale of In June, CSL announced it had completed operational stock, compared to a build-up and analysed the results ofthe extensive well ofstock in 2016, and costs associated with testing programme attheRough gas storage decommissioning the 8Aplatform, which asset, which hadcommenced in 2015 willcontinue into 2018. following the identification of an issue with the integrity ofthe wells.
A pre-tax exceptional charge of 270million post-tax 224million was recorded in the CSL also announced that it had completed first half of 2017, following the June 2017 areview into the feasibility of returning announcement toapply for a production Roughto injection and storage operations.
licence and permanently end Roughs status Itconcluded that due to the high operating as a storage facility.
From 2018, we expect pressures involved, and the fact that the toreport both Spirit Energy and CSL in one wells and facilities are at the end of their E&P reporting segment.
design life and had suffered a number of different failure modes while testing, it could not safely return the assets and facilities to injection and storage operations.
In addition, an assessment of both the current economics of seasonal storage and the costs involved suggested that it would not beeconomic to continue to operate Rough as a gas storage asset by refurbishing or rebuilding the facility and replacing the wells.
As a result, CSL made all relevant applications to permanently end Roughs status as a storage facility and to produce allrecoverable gas reserves.
In December, the Competition and Markets Authority announced its final decision to grant CSLs request to be released from the Rough Undertakings, while in January 2018 the Oiland Gas Authority OGA granted its consent for CSL to produce indigenous gas and associated liquids from Rough.
Separate to this application, in June, CSL also applied to the OGA to produce up to an initial 30.7bcf Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 47
