Business review Revenue KPI 4% The fundamentals of a housing shortage and strong 452m Government commitment to Adjusted EBITDA KPI 7% increase housebuilding remain 120m robust and strongly support Group Adjusted EBITDA margin our UK businesses.
no change 26% Overall Group performance UK Clay and Concrete 2017 presented many challenges to the Year ended Year ended Group: however, we performed strongly 31 December 31 December during the year, delivering profits and cash 2017 2016 m m generation in line with managements expectations.
Group revenue increased Revenue 363 344 by 4% to 452 million 2016: 435 million Adjusted EBITDA 111 103 and Group adjusted EBITDA increased by 7% to 120 million 2016: 112 million.
Adjusted EBITDA margin 30.5% 29.8% A slightly weaker US performance was offset by a stronger performance in the UK, driven by improved year-on-year 2017 proved to be a testing year for During the Summer months demand results in both clay and concrete.
remained robust and new build products, such as bricks and roof tiles, moved onto We had reported some slowing in our waiting times.
With demand exceeding markets in 2016 leading up to the UKs supply during this period, some customers European Union referendum Brexit, but did not receive the volumes they wanted with that event behind us our UK markets when they needed it.
Consequently, I am showed good resilience in the final quarter very pleased that we still managed to of 2016.
However, economists were record a small improvement in our overall generally forecasting significant adverse Net Promoter Score this year.
impacts on our markets for 2017.
Due to high demand, brick imports Despite the uncertainty arising from the increased strongly as the year progressed, referendum in 2016, we entered the year exceeding circa 0.31 billion bricks for with a plan to sell slightly more than in the the year across the UK market.
UK previous year our more positive view of manufacturers sold approximately 2 billion our markets supported by customer bricks, although circa 0.16 billion of this advice on prospective build volumes.
As was supplied from existing stocks.
In we moved into the Spring, it became clear summary, the UK market consumed circa that our markets had shrugged-off Brexit 2.4 billion bricks and UK manufacturers economic forecasters had been overly manufactured less than 1.9 billion, leaving pessimistic and our volumes were a deficit of circa 0.5 billion bricks that was progressing strongly into the new build filled through manufacturer destocking sector in particular.
We increased our and imports.
production plans to maximum output from the already high utilisation rates to meet With this market situation, Ibstocks this demand.
Our repair, maintenance and decision to build a new brick factory in improvement RMI markets, served Leicestershire providing 100 million bricks principally by Ibstock Brick and Supreme of additional supply to the UK market has Concrete, remained stable.
The new factory started making bricks in December 2017 and the first bricks from the plant were sold to customers during early 2018.
As the plant is commissioned, production efficiency will increase during 2018, and, Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information as planned, we expect the plant to average US about half capacity over the year and for Year ended Year ended 2019 to be the first year at full output.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Customers are pleased that this new $m $m capacity is coming to market particularly Revenue 115 122 as this is soft mud product where the shortage of UK supply is at its most acute.
Adjusted EBITDA 15 17 The new factory has been designed to be Adjusted EBITDA margin 13.1% 13.8% able to manufacture bricks in a wide range of styles and thus meet almost all customer specifications.
For Ibstock in the UK, 2017 was a busy and Outlook for 2018 Increased new build housing volumes very important year of development for the The fundamentals of a housing shortage have also increased the demand for roof Group our past decisions to invest in and a strong Government commitment tiles and industry demand is often in additional capacity, having recognised the to increase housebuilding volumes excess of capacity over the course of strong fundamentals supporting UK new remain robust and strongly support our a year.
Ibstocks investment in new housing growth, look to have been correct UK businesses.
additional roof tile capacity for its Forticrete as they enter production.
We began 2018 During 2017, UK brick demand exceeded subsidiary has proven to be timely.
As with new capacity at a time when it is supply, manufacturers destocked and previously reported, Forticretes new SL8 clearly much needed to support strong import levels increased.
Consequently the and PAN8 tiles are highly innovative and market demand.
investments we have made to increase offer improved aesthetics and reduced US capacity in both brick and roof tiles have laying cost to the customer.
They have Revenue in the US was down 2% 6% at been well-timed and our customers value been well received.
constant exchange rates for the full year this additional capacity.
2017 was a commissioning year for the new compared to 2016, principally reflecting In the US, our Glen-Gery brick business roof tile plant and demand for these new a more competitive new build residential continues to hold a leading position in products has often exceeded our growing market and a less favourable product mix.
the Mid-West and North-East markets.
Production efficiency levels In the second half of 2017, forecasters Whilst brick demand in 2017 declined improved as the year progressed and we were still expecting both residential and slightly in our primary markets, we believe reached expected long-term production non-residential markets in the North-East that Glen-Gery with its excellent customer targets by year end.
On this basis, we and Mid-West to have been flat to slightly relationships, broad product range and entered 2018 with the plant performing to positive overall for the year.
reputation for quality and service is in expectation and providing product into a a good place to benefit from any future market showing strong demand growth.
However, brick industry data for our improvements in the brick market.
With We will continue to seek to optimise primary markets actually shows that brick a new President in place and a small but output from our roofing business as 2018 demand declined slightly across all our growing presence in the residential progresses and further smaller investments end use markets through this period.
laminate stone market, we look to the to increase capacity, particularly for roofing Our experience was one of tough markets year ahead with confidence.
accessories, are planned to support the in 2017. growth of roof tile sales.
Customer demand in our UK clay and Specifically, residential markets were very concrete markets remains encouraging, Forticrete also manufacturers reconstructed competitive in the Mid-West, where we with the full benefit of the investments we stone products that are sold into new build stood firm on our pricing with a resultant have made still to come.
While we remain residential markets.
Previous investments impact on volume.
We also experienced mindful of the uncertainties of the UK in walling stone at our Anstone plant and a decline in the number of non-residential economy we expect another year of in cast stone at our Thornley plant have end use projects and overall we believe progress for the Group.
ensured that we have sufficient capacity we may have lost a little share during 2017 to meet current demand.
in this market as a result.
Over recent years we believe our pricing has on To meet growing new housing demand, average been ahead of the industry, our Supreme subsidiary worked hard to reflected in the strong profit improvement improve manufacturing efficiency in the recorded in 2016. production of concrete lintels and floor beams during the year and this supported Glen-Gery has worked to increase its good sales growth.
RMI markets for relatively small exposure to the laminate fencing and general concrete products stone and thin brick markets.
During the were reasonably stable and we enjoyed year the manufactured stone product a solid year.
range was expanded with two new product lines and capacity to supply Supreme also installed its first new fully the thin brick market was increased.
automated concrete casting machine to manufacture fence posts, gravel board During 2017 management changes were and rail products.
This innovation has made at senior level and a new and highly taken several years to develop and bring experienced President joined the business to fruition: however, it offers improved in the latter part of the year.
With the operational efficiencies over current benefits of initiatives taken in 2017 standard production methods and beginning to be seen and a new President eliminates the health and safety risks in post, we look to recover our market associated with manual handling share position in 2018 albeit against of product.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17
