BUSINESS REVIEW The strategic report on pages 3 to 37 has been prepared in Principal activity accordance with the requirements of Section 414 A-D of the The Company carries on business as an investment trust with a view Companies Act 2006 to help shareholders assess how the to achieving the Company's investment objective.
Investment Company has performed and to understand its objectives and companies are a way for investors to make a single investment that policies.
The business review section of the strategic report gives a share in a much larger portfolio.
A type of collective discloses the Companys risks and uncertainties as identified investment, they allow investors to spread risk and diversify in by the Board, the key performance indicators used by the investment opportunities that may not otherwise be easily accessible Board to measure the Companys performance, the strategies to them.
More information can be found on the AIC website, via the used to implement the Companys objectives, and the following link: Companys environmental, social and ethical policy.
Investment objective The Companys investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth through investing in a diversified portfolio with a focus on UK companies, both quoted and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile of the portfolio may change to become more global in nature for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the result of changes to capital value of a non-UK company.
The Company will aim to deliver a return in excess of 10 per cent per annum over the longer term.
This is a target only, not a profit forecast, and there can be no assurance that it will be met.
Investment policy Asset allocation and risk diversification The Company invests in a diversified portfolio with a focus on UK companies either incorporated in the UK or traded on a UK exchange, both quoted and unquoted.
As these companies evolve, the geographical profile of the portfolio may also change to become more global in nature for reasons such as an overseas listing or as the result of changes to the capital value of a non-UK company.
The Company invests in: early-stage companies, which are likely to include both quoted and unquoted companies: and midand large-capitalisation quoted, mature companies.
The actual portfolio composition at any one time will reflect the opportunities available to the Portfolio Manager, the performance of the underlying investee companies and the maturity of the portfolio.
The Companys portfolio will typically consist of 50-100 holdings.
The Company may become a significant shareholder in any of the underlying portfolio companies.
The Company's portfolio is constructed on the basis of an assessment of the fundamental value of individual securities and is not structured on the basis of sector weightings.
The Company's portfolio is diversified across a number of sectors and, while there are no specific limits placed on exposure to any one sector, the Company will at all times invest and manage the portfolio in a manner consistent with spreading investment risk.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 29 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Investment restrictions The Company is subject to the following investment restrictions: investment in unquoted companies will be limited to 80 per cent of gross assets at the time of investment: the Companys portfolio shall be invested in a minimum of 40 holdings: the Company shall not invest more than 10 per cent of its NAV at the time of initial investment in an investee company save that the Portfolio Manager may make further investments into an investee company subject to an aggregate investment limit in any investee company of 20 per cent of NAV at the time of investment: the Company may invest in other investment funds, including listed closed-ended investment funds, to gain investment exposure, but such investment will be unleveraged and other than in relation to investment in money market funds for the purposes of cash management limited, in aggregate, to 10 per cent of NAV at the time of investment: and with respect to cash deposits, the Company shall not have exposure of more than 10 per cent of NAV, at the time of investment, to any one issuer.
During the period, the Board approved an amendment to the investment policy to limit the investment in unquoted companies to 80 per cent of gross assets rather than net assets to reflect the Companys gearing position and the fact that the Portfolio Manager considers its investments on a portfolio basis.
This was deemed to be a non-material change and the update was reflected in the Companys published investment policy at that time.
Borrowing The Company may employ gearing of up to 20 per cent of NAV, calculated at the time of borrowing, for the purpose of capital flexibility, including for investment purposes.
The Board will oversee the level of gearing in the Company, and will review the position with the Portfolio Manager on a regular basis.
Hedging The Company may use derivatives for the purposes of hedging any currency risk to which the Company may be subject but will not use derivatives for investment purposes.
Cash management While it is intended that the Company will be fully invested in normal market conditions, the Company may hold cash on deposit or invest on a temporary basis in a range of debt securities and cash equivalent instruments.
There is no restriction on the amount of cash or cash equivalent instruments that the Company may hold and there may be times when it is appropriate for the Company to have a significant cash position instead of being fully or near fully invested.
30 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 31 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Unquoted securities valuation policy Business model The pricing of unquoted securities, in line with Financial Conduct The management of the Company's assets and the Company's Authority regulations, is solely the responsibility of the appointed administration has been outsourced to third-party service AIFM Link.
Link provides independent oversight to pricing and providers.
The Board has oversight of the key elements of the conducts its own Fair Value Pricing Committee FVPC with the Company's strategy, including the following: support of an independent valuation firm it employs Duff & Phelps.
the Company's level of gearing.
The Company has a maximum limit of 20 per cent of NAV at the time of Links Fair Value Pricing Policy provides an objective, consistent and borrowing.
transparent basis for estimating the fair value of unquoted equity the Company's investment policy, which determines the securities in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 102 diversity of the Company's portfolio.
as well as International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation the appointment, amendment or removal of the Guidelines.
Company's third-party service providers.
an effective system of oversight over the Company's risk management and corporate governance.
An in-depth valuation of each investment is performed the Board regularly reviews the premium discount to NAV.
independently by Duff & Phelps the independent third party using information publicly available, in addition to that supplied by the In order to effectively undertake its duties, the Board may seek Companys investee companies.
A valuation occurs: i at the time of expert legal advice.
It also can call upon the advice of the Company initial investment, ii with a semi-annual frequency thereafter and iii Secretary.
as required where a triggering event has occurred.
Premium Discount management A triggering event may include any of the following: The Board monitors the discount at which the Company's ordinary a subsequent round of financing whether pro rata or shares trade in relation to the Company's underlying NAV and takes otherwise by the relevant investee company.
During the period under review, the Company's a significant or material milestone achieved by the relevant ordinary shares traded at a discount to its underlying net asset value.
There are various demands on capital that will include new a secondary transaction involving the relevant investee investments, follow-on investments, reduction of debt and buy back company on which sufficient information is available.
The choice as to whether this capital is used to manage the a change in the makeup of the management of the relevant discount will depend on amongst other things the shape of the investee company.
portfolio, the financial cycle and the performance of the companys a material change in the recent financial performance or share price and NAV.
As the portfolio matures the board will keep the expected future financial performance of the relevant use of cash under review.
a material change in the market environment in which the relevant investee company operates: or As a means of controlling the discount at which the shares may, from a significant movement in market indices or economic time to time, trade, the Board may seek shareholder authority to buy indicators.
The Directors have not bought back any shares under the authority granted at the Annual General Meeting AGM Once a valuation review has been established, fair value will be held on 12 June 2017.
At the forthcoming AGM, the Board is seeking to assumed to be representative of fair value each business day renew this authority.
until a valuation change is enacted by the AIFM who is the decisionmaker on valuations and enacts the price change.
Board diversity Where the AIFM considers such an adjustment to be material, The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, three of whom are the Portfolio Manager will inform the Board of the nature and female.
The Board has adopted a diversity policy, which reasons for the adjustment.
acknowledges the benefits of greater diversity, including gender diversity, and remains committed to ensuring that the Companys Directors bring a wide range of skills, knowledge, experience, backgrounds and perspectives to the Board.
Whilst the Board does not feel that it would be appropriate to set targets as all appointments are made on merit, the following objectives for the appointment of Directors have been established: all Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context of the skills, knowledge and experience that are needed for the Board to be effective: and long lists of potential non-executive Directors should include diverse candidates of appropriate merit.
32 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Corporate and operational structure The Portfolio Manager considers, among other things, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD environment, social and human rights, employee and community In accordance with the AIFMD, the Company has appointed Link implications of the companies within which it invests the Companys Fund Solutions Limited to act as its AIFM.
The AIFM has in turn assets.
The Board is provided with detailed information on each of appointed Woodford Investment Management Ltd to act as its the Companys underlying holdings on a regular basis.
It has regular Portfolio Manager, to manage the Companys assets.
The AIFM meetings with members of the investment management team who monitors the Portfolio Manager of the Company and ensures that provide them with detailed feedback on the affairs of the Companys the Companys assets are valued appropriately in accordance with underlying holdings.
It can request that action is taken to bear the relevant regulations and guidance.
In addition, the Company has pressure on the companies in which the Portfolio Manager invests appointed The Northern Trust Company as a delegate of the on behalf of the Company to ensure the highest standards are depositary to provide custody services to the Company as required maintained.
The Portfolio Manager aims to exercise its votes at the by the AIFMD.
shareholders meetings of the Companys underlying holdings in every situation it can.
In addition, the Portfolio Manager meets Operational and portfolio management regularly with the management of many of the Companys underlying In addition to the above, the Company has outsourced its holdings and encourages high standards with regard to each operations to the following service providers: companys approach to social, environmental, human rights, Link Company Matters Limited has been appointed to act community and employee matters.
as the Company Secretary: Northern Trust Global Services Limited Northern Trust has been appointed to act as the Companys investment accountant and administrator: Link Market Services Limited has been appointed as the Companys registrar: and Winterflood Investment Trusts a division of Winterflood Securities Limited has been appointed to act as the Companys corporate broker and financial adviser.
Environment, social, human rights, community and employee issues The Board has high standards on all issues that concern the environment, social matters, human rights, community and employees.
The Company has no employees and all of its Board members are non-executive.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board has delegated the Companys day-to-day operations and investment decisions to third-party service providers.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 33 34 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc
