We are committed to making a positive difference to the world around us SUSTAINABLE helping to make it healthier, happier BUSINESS REVIEW and more sustainable.
Sustainable business: A Healthier Everyday Our purpose is to make lifes everyday moments more enjoyable and we know that being a responsible, sustainable business is fundamentally important to achieving this.
We have been bringing enjoyment to millions of everyday moments for over a century through our much-loved brands and we are committed to continuing to make a positive difference to the world around us helping to make it healthier, happier and more sustainable.
This year we have reviewed our sustainable business programme to ensure that it continues to focus on the issues that matter most to our business and to our stakeholders: that it reflects how our business has grown over the past four years when the trusted and respected ambitions were set: and that 75% it helps us to deliver our business purpose.
The result of this is Trust Index score in the Great our A Healthier Everyday programme, which focuses on three Place to Work Survey across key areas where we believe we can make a real difference, ourglobal business through actions large a nd small: HEALTHIER PEOPLE HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES HEALTHIER PLANET Across each of these areas we have built strategies in response to the challenges we face, as a business but also as a society more broadly recognising we all have a role to play in tackling global issues such as obesity and climate change.
Building the trust and respect of our communities is a core part of our business strategy and our A Healthier Everyday programme is focused on the issues that represent a direct or indirect 1 in 3 impact on our ability to create, preserve or erode economic, GB employees took advantage of our environmental and social value for us, our stakeholders, the community support programmes environment and society at large.
Reporting approach To reflect the importance we attach to growing Britvic in a way that builds trust and respect with all our stakeholders, this year we have taken the decision to embed our sustainable business review into our Annual Report and will no longer be producing a separate Sustainable Business Report.
Governance Integrating sustainability across the business is fundamental to achieving our trusted and respected ambitions.
As part of this years review, we assessed the effectiveness of our sustainable business committee and identified opportunities to better integrate our A Healthier Everyday programme.
By establishing Executive level accountability for our programme 6% pillars we are better able to utilise existing governance groups Reduction in our water use relative to to oversee the delivery of our sustainability goals.
production since last year in Ireland Further information about our A Healthier Everyday programme can be found at www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information HEALTHIER PEOPLE HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES HEALTHIER PLANET Helping consumers to make healthier Helping communities to thrive Helping to secure our planets future choices and live healthier lives We have a long heritage in contributing Our business contributes to the economic Our business relies heavily on natural positively to peoples diets.
Health concerns, wellbeing of many communities, through resources to produce our drinks energy, including obesity, affect all our markets and employment, training and charitable activity.
With increasing global consumer habits are changing in favour of By being a good employer and neighbour, consumption of resources, sources are healthier options.
Our portfolio needs to we can help create communities where diminishing, which could have significant cost reflect this.
and operational implications for our business.
GOVERNANCE PLC Executive Lead: Matt Barwell PLC Executive Lead: Doug Frost PLC Executive Lead: Clive Hooper Chief Marketing Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Supply Chain Officer FY17 PERFORMANCE Average calories per 250ml is 36.5kcal across We increased the representation of women in We achieved 5% reduction in carbon emissions our global portfolio, a 1.4% increase on 2016 due leadership roles by 1 percentage point on 2016 relative to production across our global to growth in juice sales in Brazil.
Excluding Brazil, to 36% of senior roles across the business manufacturing sites to 31.05kg CO2 tonne our average calories per 250ml reduced by 0.8% lledby women.
31% of our GB employees took advantage Our global manufacturing sites achieved ofourcommunity support programmes.
awaterratio water consumption relative to production of 2.15, the same performance We achieved a wellbeing score of 72% within the as 2016.
This currently includes the water Great Place to Work survey across the company.
consumption for our fruit processing.
We diverted 99% of our global manufacturing operations waste from land ll.
308 tonnes of plastic bottle packaging eliminated in GB by moving products onto new lines as part of the supply chain investment project.
FY18 TARGETS Reduce the average calories per 250ml Women are represented in 38% of leadership We maintain our carbon emissions ratio by 3% vs 2017 excluding Brazil.
at 31.05kg CO2 tonne produced across our globalmanufacturing sites whilst we 35% of GB and Ireland employees take advantage commission all our new equipment as part of our community support programmes.
We achieve a wellbeing score of 78% in the We achieve a 2% reduction in our water Great Place to Work survey across the company.
ratioacross our global manufacturing sites excluding fruit processing.
We maintain 99% diversion from land ll rates and reduce the amount of waste sent to land ll in Brazil by 10% vs FY17.
Introduce recycled PET rPET into our GBportfolio at 15% content.
2020 GOALS Reduce average calories per 250ml serve Women are represented in 40% of leadership Reduce the carbon emissions relative to by 20% to 28kcal from 35.02kcal in 2013 roles across the company.
production across our global manufacturing excluding Brazil.
50% of our employees take advantage ofourcommunity support programmes.
Achieve a water ratio of 1.4 across our globalmanufacturing operations excluding All employees have access to wellbeing fruitprocessing.
programmes that support healthier lifestyle choices and we achieve a wellbeing score Achieve zero waste to land ll from our global of81% in the Great Place to Work survey manufacturing sites.
Reduce the amount of materials we use across all packaging formats and trial the introduction of rPET into our GB brands packaging.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 added sugar.
In Brazil, we launched Maguary Stevia, a fruit nectar with 50% less sugar than our regular Maguary thanks to SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS REVIEW the natural sweetener Stevia.
In the United States, we launched CONTINUED Fruit Shoot Hydro, offering healthy hydration with no added sugar and zero calories.
Alongside our sugar reduction activity, we have also focused on adding vitamins into our drinks to make them healthier.
In Ireland this year, we launched Fruit Shoot with added vitamins and MiWadi with added vitamins.
In addition to reformulation, we are also committed to using our brands to encourage healthier lifestyles with partnerships such as MiWadi 0% and Diabetes Ireland, and Robinsons and Fruit Shoot continued support of Public Health Englands Change4Life campaign urging parents to be food smart and take more control of their kids diets by encouraging families to choose healthier options.
In line with our Responsible Marketing Code, HEALTHIER PEOPLE we do not advertise any products to children under 12 nor The health of our consumers really matters to us.
Our business advertise high-sugar products to under 16s.
We continue to was built on bringing an affordable source of vitamins to lead with sugar-free Pepsi MAX in all above-the-line advertising consumers at a time when diets lacked important nutrients.
We have never forgotten our history and today we do our best to make it easier for our consumers to make healthier choices AVERAGE CALORIES PER 250ML SERVE and live healthier lives in order to create A Healthier Everyday.
Health and obesity concerns continue to affect our markets and over the past few years we have witnessed a shift in 37.5 36.5 36.0 35.4 35.4 35.1 consumer behaviour in favour of healthier products.
We are committed to helping our consumers make healthier choices and live healthier lives and believe our broad portfolio of drinks can be enjoyed as part of a balanced diet.
Our leading approach to reformulation has seen us remove over 20 billion calories from GB diets on an annualised basis since 2013.
Across our global portfolio we have reduced the average calories per 250ml serve by over 6% since 2014 excluding Brazil.
FY FY FY FY FY FY 14 15 16 16 17 17 Our 2020 commitment: Reduce average calories Total Group including Brazil per 250ml serve by 20% to 28kcal from Total Group excluding Brazil 35.02kcal in 2013 excluding Brazil This year 68% of all innovation across the business was in low no-sugar products.
With the introduction of the Soft Drinks Industry Levy in the UK and a soft drinks levy in Ireland next year, our innovation and reformulation activity has ensured that we are well prepared and by April 2018, 94% of our HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES own brand portfolio in GB will be exempt from the levy, 72% Healthier communities support a better quality of life including the PepsiCo portfolio.
In Ireland, 79% of our own socially, economically and environmentally.
We care brand portfolio will be exempt from the proposed sugar tax.
about our communities, none more so than our employee New product launches that support our calorie reduction community, and we are committed to providing a healthy, targets include Robinsons Refreshd in GB, a still spring water inclusive workplace where every employee can thrive.
drink made using 100% naturally sourced ingredients, with no We also want to make sure we look after the communities added sugar and only 55kcal per 500ml serve, and Pepsi MAX that look after us, and we are proud to be doing what we Ginger in GB and Ireland, the latest variant to the Pepsi MAX can to make the communities where we operate stronger range created for the growing number of health-conscious creating jobs and supporting charities and community groups consumers looking for bold, interesting flavours without the to create A Healthier Everyday.
Containing natural ginger flavouring, a 500ml serve of This year, 89% of our employees across all business units Pepsi MAX Ginger contains only 2kcal and no added sugar.
completed our Great Place to Work employee survey.
Our Trust This year we also launched Club Zero Rock Shandy and Club Index score rose for the fourth consecutive year, increasing Zero Super Split in Ireland, two new Club flavours with no by 3percentage points to reach 75%, demonstrating how the continued commitment by the business to creating an inspiring place to be is making a real impact on how our employees feel about Britvic.
This year our France business entered the Great Place to Work rankings for the first time and came 19th: our Ireland business ranked 22nd, moving up one place from last year: and the GB business was the only soft drinks business to enter the rankings.
Recognising how our employees live our values and deliver excellent work is really important to us, and in 2017 our annual Britvic Stars recognition scheme yielded the most nominations ever, with over 1,600 employees choosing to recognise their peers and colleagues.
Our winners attended a special event at Wimbledon and a lunch with CEO Simon Litherland to celebrate.
20bn Calories have been removed from GB diets on an annualised basis through reformulation since 2013 36 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Diversity & Inclusion Health, safety and wellbeing We are passionate about creating an inspiring and great place Across our global operations, at year end, we employed to work for our employees and recognise that this can only be over 4,700 people and safeguarding their health, safety and achieved by creating an environment where everyone feels wellbeing continues to be a top priority.
We focus on risk they can be themselves and where everyones voice is heard, management, employee training and competence, and targeted valued and treated with respect.
As a consumer-focused initiatives to ensure that we maintain a strong safety culture.
organisation, reflecting the global, cultural and socio-demographic This year our Accident Frequency Rate AFR performance diversity of our consumers within our workforce is key to saw a 18% increase across the business, which was largely ensuring the continued growth of our business.
driven by a reduction in our working hours from activities with We are committed to providing equal opportunities to our a typically low AFR and inclusion of our Brazilian manufacturing current and potential employees and apply fair and equitable sites.
We will focus on reducing our AFR next year by employment practices.
We value diversity and we recruit reinforcing our compliance culture and optimising our approach and promote talent on the basis of ability, skills, experience, to occupational health and wellbeing.
Overall, our combined behaviour, performance and potential for the job.
Our selection, safety performance total accidents and lost-time accidents training, development and promotion policies ensure equal remained stable and we are pleased to report that we reduced opportunities for all employees regardless of factors such as total accidents from 208 to 203 and, importantly, experienced age, disability including colleagues who become disabled 6fewer lost time accidents across the company 38 vs 44 in during service, gender including gender reassignment, 2016.
This reduction in overall accidents was achieved by firmly marital status, pregnancy and maternity, race, nationality, embedding our safety management processes to reduce risk religion or belief, or sexual orientation.
and actively encouraging employee engagement through our Contribution to Safety programme in GB and Ireland.
We also celebrated some standout achievements this year, including our Our 2020 commitment: Women are represented sites in Beckton GB and Bricfruit France, which achieved an in 40% of leadership roles across the company impressive record of three years without a lost time accident.
This year we have developed our Diversity & Inclusion Our 2020 commitment: All employees have access strategy to help embed a culture of inclusion across to wellbeing programmes that support healthier every part of Britvic and meet our guiding vision to build lifestyle choices an inclusive organisation where our employees reflect the diverse communities and consumers they serve.
Our strategy is delivered through five key focus areas: Employee wellbeing goes beyond just wellness and we recognise that it is a complex blend of the physical, psychological, Build ownership and accountability in our Diversity social and relationship aspects of employees working lives.
It is hugely important that our employees feel supported in Empower our people so that everyones voice is heard.
their wellbeing as part of our Great Place to Work ambitions.
Step-change the make-up of our people to re ect the Across our markets we offer a variety of programmes that diversity of our consumer.
support our employees wellbeing and encourage healthier Deliver talent plans that leverage our diverse population lifestyle choices.
These programmes provide support for lifes Build trust and fairness through the right policies everyday moments for example, in GB and Ireland we provide and training.
a dedicated Employee Assistance helpline available 24 7 to We have put in place a range of initiatives to deliver our provide everything from guidance on handling the stresses of ambitions, including focus groups to understand how our everyday life to specialist counselling in bereavement support.
people feel about diversity and supporting International In Ireland, we were one of the first companies to achieve Womens Day celebrating the women we have within the Ibecs KeepWell Mark, an evidence based accreditation business.
The latest Great Place to Work employee survey award to recognise the positive steps we have taken as an reported a 2% improvement in how employees view diversity employer in support of our employees health and wellbeing.
and equality within the company.
Human rights The overall gender balance across all employees within Our Ethical Business Policy details our commitment to human the business at 1 October 2017 was 28% female and 72% rights and covers bribery and corruption, conducting business male.
This figure is indicative of our industry, with a high with respect, integrity and equality, and managing personal proportion of operational employees typically being male, activities and interests.
Our approach is guided by international and has remained static since the previous reporting period.
conventions and standards, including the United Nations UN This year we increased the representation of women in Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding leadership roles by one percentage point from 2016 to 36% Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Our policy extends of senior roles across the business.
Our Board level gender to our suppliers and other trading partners and compliance is diversity changed this year to 14% female and 86% male with monitored through our responsible sourcing programme.
the departure of Joanne Averiss.
Responsible sourcing Male Female We are committed to sourcing all our materials in a responsible Board 6 86% 1 14% manner, working alongside our suppliers to drive best practice Executive Committee 10 91% 1 9% in respect to human rights, employment practices and the Senior managers Band D 241 64% 134 36% environment.
This year we continued to make progress with All employees 3,375 72% 1,297 28% our responsible sourcing programme, requesting 75% of our GB and Ireland business high-risk suppliers to be audited against the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit SMETA 4Pillar standard or equivalent and working with others through our membership of the AIM PROGRESS group to improve the standards across our shared supply chain.
Modern slavery We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery and we recognise the risk of modern slavery within our supply chain.
Our Modern Slavery Statement details the steps we are taking to tackle it and can be found on our website at www.
com sustainable-business  Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 TONNE CO2e 1,000 TONNE PRODUCT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED 34.20 32.59 31.05 30.49 28.71 27.24 27.06 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 13 14 15 16 16 17 17 Supporting our communities We recognise the importance of supporting our local PLC including Brazil communities and we continue to encourage our employees to take part in charity and community support activities.
We PLC excluding Brazil offer paid leave for volunteering, up to three days per year for our GB based employees, and community support activity undertaken by our GB employees was valued at 67,000 in Minimising the environmental impact of our operations 2017.
This was derived from our various giving initiatives, With 16 manufacturing sites across 4 countries, a large including volunteering time, matched funding, payroll giving, proportion of our direct environmental footprint comes from drinks donations and our monthly employee lottery.
our factory operations and we have focused on minimising this impact through efficiency measures and new technology.
This year we have made considerable improvements to our Our 2020 commitment: 50% of our employees take GB manufacturing sites through our supply chain investment advantage of our community support programmes programme, installing highly efficient new lines that will reduce our water and energy consumption once fully commissioned.
In GB, we maintained our support for our corporate charity In Beckton, the new PET line runs at twice the capacity of the partners The Wildlife Trust and Sported through employee older lines and is 30% more energy efficient.
In France, we continued our partnership with Apprentis DAuteuil with employeeOur 2020 commitment: Achieve a water ratio of designed-and-led projects to support vulnerable young 1.4acrossour global manufacturing operations people to gain more of the skills and confidence they excludingfruit processing need to enter the workplace.
In addition to our corporate charity partners, we continue to use the reach of our brands to support fantastic causes.
Across the business our water consumption relative to Ballygowan partnered with the Irish Cancer Society in the production water ratio remained the same as 2016 at 2.15.
Republic of Ireland and Marie Curie Cancer in Northern Ireland This was a result of the supply chain investment programme to raise awareness and funds for cancer prevention and support seeing numerous bottling lines in GB being commissioned this with a special gold label edition.
We raised 144,000 for the year, which increased the water ratio for the GB business by charities, which is helping to support the night nursing service, 4.6%.
In Ireland, our focus on water reduction and investment Daffodil Centres and the Cancer Nurseline.
MiWadi continued in new technology resulted in a 6% reduction in our water its longstanding relationship with Temple Street Childrens ratio since last year.
We currently include water from our fruit Hospital with the MiWadi Trick or Treat for Temple Street processing operations in Brazil in our water ratio calculation.
campaign, which has proudly helped raise 1.5m in the past We intend to separate this in future reporting.
In the UK, our Britvic tonics and mixers launched a new charity initiative at London Cocktail Week, the Britvic Lifting Spirits Foundation.
This Foundation has been specifically Our 2020 commitment: Reduce the carbon designed to further Britvics heritage in supporting local emissions relative to production across our global communities and social projects.
For every bottle of new manufacturing sites by 15% vs 2016 baseline look mixers & juices sold by participating customers, Britvic has committed to give back to local initiatives and projects, We have continued to make progress towards our 2020 chosen by publicans and bar owners.
commitment on carbon emissions reduction with our energy consumption relative to production across the business reduced by 2%, translating to 5% reduction in carbon emissions relative to production since last year.
Across our manufacturing sites we are focused on driving energy efficiency and using cleaner energy sources.
In Brazil HEALTHIER PLANET we use waste cashew nut kernels to power our boilers.
A healthier planet is one where resources are used responsibly The table adjacent sets out the quantities of greenhouse and the natural world is protected, so that future generations can gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e continue to enjoy lifes everyday moments.
We are playing our for the 52 weeks ended 1 October 2017.
The table also part, focusing on the small changes and innovations that will contains last years emissions to demonstrate our progress.
contribute to a better world in the longer term.
From the sourcing We have reported on all of the emission sources required of our natural ingredients to the manufacturing and distribution of under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and our drinks, we are committed to doing right by the environment, Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Emissions outside of creating A Healthier Everyday for today and tomorrow.
our responsibility, including shared office locations and those originating from our contract packers and franchise partners, have been omitted from our disclosure.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from the UK Government and International Energy Agencys GHG Conversion Factors 2017 for this years calculations.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 2015 - 2016 2016 - 2017 Emissions Emissions 2020 commitment: Reduce the amount of materials Tonnes CO2e Tonnes CO2e we use across all packaging formats and ensure 15% Total Scope 1 & 2 ofPET comes from recycled or renewable materials CO2e emissions 67,494 63,541 Emissions from: Lightweighting our packaging has been a major focus for us Scope 1: as we strive to reduce its environmental impact.
We work Combustion of fuel closely with our packaging suppliers, and through the supply and operation of chain investment programme in GB we have avoided 308 facilities 31,131 28,391 tonnes of primary plastic bottle packaging by moving products onto our new bottling lines and accessing lighterweight bottles.
Scope 2: Electricity, In GB, we are also replacing our steel cans with aluminium cans heat, steam and avoiding 8,000 tonnes of packaging material per annum once cooling purchased completed by April 2018. for our own use 36,363 35,150 In support of the circular economy we also recognise that Intensity measure: we have a role to play in ensuring that the packaging material Scope 1 & 2 is recovered and recycled and consideration to the end of emissions reported life of our packaging is a fundamental part of our packaging above normalised to 32.59 tonnes 31.05 tonnes design process.
All of our plastic bottles are 100% recyclable per thousand tonne CO2e 1000 CO2e 1000 and we encourage our consumers to recycle as much of of product output tonnes tonnes our packaging as possible with on-pack messaging and campaigns in partnership with our customers.
This year Notes: we supported our customer Live Nation with a recycling 1.
Emissions relate to those generated by our manufacturing campaign at V Festival in the UK to promote recycling and sites in GB, Ireland, France and Brazil only.
Our reporting scope extended this year to include our latest This year, working alongside PepsiCo, we have trialled acquisition Bela Ischia.
the inclusion of rPET in our bottles.
FY16 data restated to improve robustness.
recycled plastics is becoming increasingly popular with our stakeholders and could play a role in reducing the environmental In addition to our direct emissions, we are also committed impact associated with plastic packaging.
We are committed to reducing our indirect Scope 3 emissions arising from our to investigating this further across our brands.
business travel and logistics operations.
This year we achieved a 28% reduction in emissions arising from our business flights across the business excluding Brazil equating to 2,840 tonnes CO2e.
In GB, we have increased the total representation of electric and alternative fuel vehicles to 18% of our total car fleet.
This means our current average CO2 km for our car fleet is 103g km.
We have offset 3,750 tonnes CO2e as part of our continued support of a rainforest conservation project in the Amazon.
Reducing waste We are committed to making our business more efficient by reducing, reusing, recycling and recovering our waste and ensuring that the waste residues that remain are disposed of using the most environmentally responsible options available.
This year, we diverted 99% of our global manufacturing operations waste from landfill and we established the waste 300tns performance of our Brazilian business, which sent 368 tonnes We eliminated over 300 tonnes of plastic bottle to landfill.
We are working closely with our waste management packaging in GB providers to understand the challenges associated with waste disposal in Brazil and have targets to reduce this waste to landfill next year.
202 0 commitment: Achieve zero waste to landfill SUMMARY ASSURANCE from our global manufacturing sites STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LTD Optimising our packaging Packaging is a critically important component of our products Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Bureau Veritas has provided and we have a responsibility to ensure the environmental limited independent assurance to Britvic plc over selected impacts are minimised throughout its lifecycle, from the sustainability data contained within the Groups 2017 materials we use to produce the packa ging through to how Annual Report.
The information and data reviewed in our consumers dispose of it.
this assurance process covered the period 3 October 2016 1 October 2017.
The full assurance statement, including Bureau Veritas verification opinion, scope, summary of the work performed, limitations and exclusions, additional commentary, and a statement of independence and impartiality, can be found on the Britvic website: www.
com Bureau Veritas UK November 2017 Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
