246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 16 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 16 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review The Strategic Report, set out on pages 2 to 25, contains a investment companies including investment trusts listed review of the Companys policies and business model, on the London Stock Exchange.
together with an analysis of its performance during theThe Companys gearing policy is that gearing will not financial year and its future developments.
It also details the exceed 25% of the Companys net assets.
In normal principal risks and challenges that the Company faces.
Its market conditions it is expected that the level of gearing purpose is to inform the shareholders of the Company and will be between 5% and 25% of the Companys net help them to assess how the Directors have performed their assets.
duty to promote the success of the Company.
The Company has the ability to invest up to 25% of its gross assets in preference shares, bonds and other debt Investment Objective instruments, although no more than 10% of any one issue The Companys investment objective is to achieve capital and may be held.
income growth and to provide shareholders with a total return In addition, a maximum of 10% of the Companys gross in excess of that of the FTSE All-Share Index.
assets can be held in cash, where the Portfolio Manager believes market or economic conditions make equity Investment Policies investment unattractive or while seeking appropriate No changes have been made to the Companys investment investment opportunities or to maintain liquidity.
policies: No investment will be made in any company or fund The Companys investment policy is to invest principally in managed by the Portfolio Manager without the prior the securities of UK listed companies, whilst up to a approval of the Board.
maximum of 20% of the Companys portfolio, at the time In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct of acquisition, can be invested in quoted companies Authority FCA, the Company can only make a material worldwide.
change to its investment policies with the approval of its Where possible, a minimum position size of 1% of the shareholders.
Companys gross assets is held unless the holding Investment Performance concerned is being built or disposed.
Whilst performance is measured against the FTSE All-Share The portfolio will normally comprise up to 30 Index, the Companys portfolio is constructed and managed investments.
This level of concentration may lead to an without reference to a stock market index, investments being investment return which is materially different from the selected only after extensive research by the Portfolio Companys benchmark index and may be considered to Manager.
The Portfolio Manager uses a bottom-up stock carry above average risk.
Unless driven by market picking approach and looks to invest in a universe of excellent movements, securities in FTSE 100 companies and listed businesses that appear undervalued.
comparable companies listed on an overseas stock The Board believes that the Companys performance over the exchange will normally represent between 50% and last ten years net asset total return of 205.2% compared to a 100% of the portfolio: securities in FTSE 350 companies total return from the Companys benchmark index of 75.2% and comparable companies listed on overseas stock demonstrates that it is possible to achieve good performance exchanges will normally represent at least 70% of the through investing principally in UK equities without buying and portfolio.
selling portfolio securities on a short term basis.
The Company The Company does not and will not invest more than continues to perform competitively because the Portfolio 15%, in aggregate, of the value of its gross assets in Manager concentrates on the strengths and weaknesses of other closed ended investment companies including individual companies.
investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Further, the Company does not and will not invest more than 10%, in aggregate, of the value of its gross assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange, except where the investment companies themselves have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 17 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 17 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review Dividend Policy The Company has a progressive dividend policy.
The decision as to the level of dividend paid takes the policy is to increase or at least to maintain the total into account the income forecasts maintained by the dividend.
Dividends are typically paid in May and as soon as Companys AIFM and Portfolio Manager which are reviewed practicably possible after the financial year end, as a second regularly by the Board.
These forecasts consider dividends interim in November, in lieu of a final dividend.
earned from the portfolio together with predicted future earnings.
The level of dividend growth is dependent upon the growth and performance of the companies within the Investment Dividends are expected to be paid from the Revenue Reserve.
Ten Year Dividend Record 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 First Interim Dividend Second Interim Source: Frostrow Capital LLP Pence per share FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 18 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 18 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review Further information on the Directors can be found on pages 26 Business Model and 27.
Details of the Directors remuneration arrangements The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are can be found on pages 43 to 46. non-executive.
The Company delegates its day-to-day management to third parties.
The principal service providers to The Board supports the principle of Boardroom diversity, of the Company are Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow which acts which gender is one important aspect, and the as AIFM, company secretary and administrator: and Lindsell recommendations of Lord Davies review.
In accordance with Train Limited Lindsell Train which acts as Portfolio Manager.
the Board and Audit Committees Composition and Success BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited is the Companys Plan the Boards aim is to have a broad range of approaches, Depositary.
backgrounds, skills and experience represented on the Board and to make appointments on merit against objective criteria, Lindsell Train was appointed in December 2000.
The Board currently comprises five men has given Mr Nick Train responsibility for managing the and three women.
Mr Train was previously head of Global Equities at M&G PLC and head of Pan-European Equities at The Company does not have any employees and therefore GT Management PLC.
Mr Train has managed money in the UK there is no employee information to disclose.
equity market since 1983, including the top decile performer GT Income Fund 1985-1998.
Lindsell Train is authorised and Social, Human Rights and Environmental regulated by the FCA.
Matters Frostrow is the AIFM.
It is also responsible for providing The Directors, through the Portfolio Manager, encourage company secretarial, administrative, accounting and marketing companies in which investments are made to adhere to best services to the Company.
Frostrow was established in 2007 to practice with regard to corporate governance.
In light of the provide specialist management, company secretarial, nature of the Companys business there are no relevant human administration and marketing services to investment rights issues and the Company does not have a human rights companies.
Frostrow is authorised and regulated by the FCA.
The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys The Company recognises that social and environmental issues affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the can have an effect on some of its portfolio companies.
monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors for all strategic issues, the dividend policy, the share issuance consists of eight Directors, all of whom are resident in the and buy-back policy, gearing, share price and United Kingdom.
The Board holds its regular meetings in the discount premium monitoring and corporate governance United Kingdom and has a policy that travel, as far as possible, matters.
Directors Modern Slavery Act 2015 The Directors of the Company who were in office during the The Company falls outside the scope of the Modern Slavery year and up to the date of signing the financial statements Act 2015 as the Company has no employees.
The Companys were: suppliers are professional firms and they provide assurance Anthony Townsend Chairman that they operate in accordance with this legislation.
John Allard Neil Collins Kate Cornish-Bowden appointed on 26 October 2017 Simon Hayes David Hunt Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Vanessa Renwick Lorna Tilbian appointed on 26 October 2017 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:18 Page 19 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 19 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review seeking out and evaluating investment opportunities: Principal Service Providers recommending the manner by which monies should be Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM invested, disinvested, retained or realised: Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the advising on how rights conferred by the investments Company provides, inter alia, the following services: should be exercised: oversight of the portfolio management function analysing the performance of investments made: and delegated to Lindsell Train: advising the Company in relation to trends, market movements and other matters which may affect theinvestment portfolio administration and valuation: investment objective and policy of the Company.
risk management services: During the year to 30 September 2017 under the terms of the marketing and shareholder services: Portfolio Management Agreement Lindsell Train continued to receive an annual fee of 0.45% of the Companys adjustedshare price discount and premium management: market capitalisation up to a value of 1 billion, such fee administrative and secretarial services: reducing to 0.405% per annum of the amount of the advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance Companys adjusted market capitalisation in excess of requirements: 1 billion.
The Portfolio Management Agreement may be terminated bymaintenance of the Companys accounting records: either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
maintenance of the Companys website: Depositary preparation and dispatch of annual and half year reports BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited the Depositary and monthly fact sheets: and acts as the Companys depositary in accordance with the ensuring compliance with applicable legal and regulatory AIFMD on the terms and subject to the conditions of the requirements.
depositary agreement between the Company, Frostrow and the Depositary the Depositary Agreement.
Under the terms During the year to 30 September 2017 under the terms of the of the Depositary Agreement the Company has agreed to pay AIFM Agreement Frostrow continued to receive an annual fee the Depositary a fee calculated as a percentage of the of 0.15% of the Companys adjusted market capitalisation up Companys gross assets 0.02% of the first 150 million of gross to a value of 1 billion, such fee reducing to 0.135% per annum assets and 0.015% of gross assets in excess of 150 million of the amount of the Companys adjusted market capitalisation subject to a minimum fee of 20,000 per annum, plus any in excess of 1 billion.
A fixed fee of 70,000 per annum applicable VAT.
payable to Frostrow ceased to be payable with effect from 1 October 2017.
With effect from 1 January 2017, the Company paid a flat fee of 0.0125% of gross assets.
Subsequent to 30 September 2017 The AIFM Agreement may be terminated by either party on a further reduction in fees has been negotiated.
The Company giving notice of not less than 12 months.
now pays a flat fee of 0.009% on net assets.
The Depositary provides the following services: Portfolio Manager responsibility for the safe keeping of custodial assets of Under the AIFM Agreement Lindsell Train, as delegate of the the Company: AIFM, is responsible for the management of the Companys verification and maintenance of a record of all other portfolio of investments under an agreement between it, the assets of the Company and for the collection of income Company and Frostrow the Portfolio Management that arises from those assets: Agreement.
taking reasonable care to ensure that the Company is Under the terms of its Portfolio Management Agreement, managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND Lindsell Train provides, inter alia, the following services: Sourcebook and the Companys instrument of incorporation, in relation to the calculation of the net asset value per share and the application of income of the Company: and FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:19 Page 20 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 20 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review a duty to monitor the Companys compliance with over the long run.
Frostrow actively promotes the Company in investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its the following ways: offering documents.
Engaging regularly with institutional investors, discretionary The Depositary Agreement may be terminated by either party wealth managers and a range of execution-only platforms: on giving notice of not less than 90 days.
Frostrow regularly meets institutional investors, discretionary wealth managers and execution-only platform providers to Custodian discuss the Companys strategy and to understand any issues In accordance with the AIFM Rules the Depositary delegates and concerns, covering both investment and corporate custody of the Companys listed investments to The Bank of governance matters: New York Mellon SA NV, London Branch the Global Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow works Custodian and any other Bank of New York affiliate as it sees to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key groups fit meaning any direct or indirect subsidiary of The Bank of within the investment community, holding annual investment New York Mellon.
As at the date of this report, the applicable seminars, overseeing PR output and managing the Companys sub-custodians appointed by the Global Custodian who might website and wider digital offering, including portfolio manager be relevant for the purposes of holding the Companys webcasts and social media: investments are: Disseminating key Company information: Frostrow performs Name of Country sub-custodian Regulator the Investor relations function on behalf of the Company and The Netherlands The Bank of New York Financial Services manages the investor database.
Frostrow produces all key Mellon SA NV and Markets corporate documents, distributes monthly factsheets, annual Authority, Belgium reports and updates from Lindsell Train on the portfolio and Canada CIBC Mellon Trust Canadian Securities market developments: and Company Administrators Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the United States The Bank of New US Securities Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow of America York, New York and Exchange maintains regular contact with sector broker analysts and other Commission research and data providers, and conducts periodic investor France BNP Paribas Banque fide France perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide Securities Services, Paris up-to-date and accurate information on the latest shareholder and market developments.
The Global Custodians safekeeping fees are charged according to the jurisdiction in which the holdings are based.
Long Term Viability Statement During the financial year, the majority of the Companys assets In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the attracted a fee of 0.008% of their market value.
Variable Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over a transaction fees were also chargeable.
Subsequent to longer period than the 12 months required by the Going 30 September 2017 a reduction in fees has been negotiated Concern provision.
The Board asked the Audit Committee to with the majority of the Companys assets attracting a fee of address this requirement, which should take account of the 0.0033%.
Companys current position and the principal risks as set out The custody agreement may be terminated by either party on on pages 23 to 25 so that the Board may state that they have a giving notice of not less than 90 days.
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due Company Promotion over the period of their assessment.
The aim of the Companys promotional activities is to encourage demand for the Companys shares.
The Company has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing services in the belief that a well-marketed investment company is more likely to grow over time, have a more diverse, stable list of shareholders and its shares will trade at close to NAV per share 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:19 Page 21 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 21 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review To provide this assessment the Audit Committee has Performance and future developments considered the Companys financial position as described An outline of performance, investment activity and strategy, above and its ability to liquidate its portfolio and meet its and market background during the year, as well as the future liabilities as they fall due: outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Portfolio Managers Review on pages 13 to 15.
The portfolio comprises principally of investments traded on major international stock exchanges.
The It is expected that the Companys strategy will remain current portfolio could be substantially liquidated unchanged in the coming year.
within seven trading days and there is no expectation that the nature of the investments held within the portfolio will be materially different in future: The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are no capital commitments foreseen which would alter that position: and The Company has no employees, with only non-executive Directors and consequently does not have redundancy or other employment related liabilities or responsibilities.
The Audit Committee, as well as considering the principal risks on pages 23 to 25 and the financial position of the Company as set out above, has also considered the following assumptions in considering the longer-term viability: There will continue to be demand for investment trusts: The Board and the Portfolio Manager will continue to adopt a long-term view when making investments, and anticipated holding periods will be at least five years: The Company invests principally in the securities of UK listed companies to which investors will wish to continue to have exposure: The Company will maintain its bank loan facility: Regulation will not increase to a level that makes running the Company uneconomical: and The performance of the Company will continue to be satisfactory.
Taking account of the anticipated investment holding periods, the expected extension of the Companys gearing facility and the liquidity and medium term prospects of the Companys investment portfolio, the Directors have formed a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue its operations and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:19 Page 22 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 22 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review Alternative Performance Measures The Financial Statements on pages 48 to 64 set out the required statutory reporting measures of the Companys financial performance.
In addition the Board assesses the Companys performance against a range of criteria which are viewed as particularly relevant for investment trusts.
These are summarised below under the heading Key Performance Indicators.
Key Performance Indicators The Board continually reviews overall performance.
The Companys net asset value per share is announced daily via a regulatory news service and is available online.
At each Board meeting, the Board considers a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its investment objective.
The key performance indicators KPIs are as follows: Share price Net asset value Share price total Revenue return discount premium Benchmark and peer total return per share to net asset value group performance return per share Frostrow is responsible for ensuring the Company complies with the AIFMD, and for providing company secretarial, administration and marketing services to the Company.
The management of the portfolio has been delegated to Lindsell Train.
Each provider is responsible to the Board which is ultimately responsible to the shareholders for performing against the above KPIs.
Net asset value total return The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return to be a key indicator of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
Total return reflects the net asset value growth of, and the dividends paid by, the Company.
During the year under review the Companys net asset value per share total return was 13.7% 2016: 20.6% outperforming the FTSE All Share Index total return the Companys benchmark by 1.8% in absolute terms.
Share price total return The Directors regard the Companys share price total return to be a key indicator of performance.
During the year under review the Companys share price total return was 14.2% 2016: 20.8%.
Revenue return per share The Directors regard the Companys revenue return per share to be an important indicator of performance.
The revenue return per share for the year was 15.8p per share 2016: 15.2p per share.
The Companys net revenue return during the year was up 3.9%.
Share price discount premium to net asset value per share The Board reviews the level of discount premium to net asset value per share at every Board meeting and consideration is given to ways in which the share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing and share issuance and buy-backs, where appropriate.
Details of how the Companys discount control mechanism works can be found on page 6.
Demand for the Companys shares led to the issue of a total of 16,578,500 new shares during the year at a premium to the prevailing cum or ex income net asset value per share at the time of issue.
No shares were repurchased by the Company during the year.
At 30 September 2017 the Companys share price stood at a 0.5% premium to the Companys net asset value per share.
Benchmark and peer group performance The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index total return which delivered a return of 11.9% 2016: 16.8% over the year.
This compares to the Companys share price total return of 14.2% 2016: 20.8%.
The Board also monitors the Companys net asset value return against its peer group.
As at 30 September 2017 the Company ranked fifth out of eleven over one year, and first over three, five and ten years.
source: Morningstar 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:19 Page 23 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 23 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review Risk Management The principal risks identified by the Board and the actions taken to mitigate them are set out below under six headings.
Shareholder Corporate Investment Activity Relations Accounting, Legal Operational Financial Strategy and Strategy and Corporate and Regulatory Governance A detailed risk matrix is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board twice a year.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it invests.
There were no changes to the Companys risk management processes during the year and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified from the Boards most recent risk review.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Corporate Strategy The Board reviews the Companys investment mandate in relation to market and The Companys business model or investment objective may become economic conditions and monitors the Companys performance against its peers.
In unacceptable or unattractive to addition, the Board holds meetings with shareholders when necessary and regularly shareholders.
reviews the AIFMs reports on marketing activities and investor feedback.
The Companys stockbroker also regularly reports to the Board on investor sentiment and movements on the share register.
The Board meets with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting and undertakes a regular review of compliance with the Companys investment restrictions.
The Board may be unable to maintain a The Board reviews income forecasts produced by the AIFM at every Board meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association have been amended to permit the payment of dividends out of capital.
The Board also regularly reviews the Companys gearing levels in discussion with the Portfolio Manager as well as compliance with the gearing limits it sets.
The Companys share price total return The Board has implemented a discount control mechanism which is intended to protect may differ materially from the NAV per against the share price widening beyond a 5% discount to NAV per share and a share share total return.
issuance programme which acts as a premium control mechanism.
Investment Strategy and Activity The investment strategy adopted by the The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the benchmark and the Portfolio Manager may lead to an Companys peer group at every meeting as well as a monthly compliance report and investment return that is materially lower the monthly fact sheet.
The Board discusses with the Portfolio Manager the structure than the Companys benchmark index, of the portfolio, including asset allocation and portfolio concentration, and the thereby failing to achieve the Companys investment strategy at each meeting.
The Board reviews the portfolio management arrangements on an annual basis or as The departure of a key individual at the appropriate.
In turn, the Portfolio Manager reports on developments at Lindsell Train, Portfolio Manager may affect the including succession and business continuity plans.
The Management Engagement Committee was dissolved on 27 September 2017.
Please refer to page 34 for further information.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:19 Page 24 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 24 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Shareholder Relations and Corporate Governance The investment objective of existing The Board regularly reviews movements in the Companys shareholder register.
In shareholders no longer coincides with addition, the AIFM and the Companys corporate stockbroker both report on their the investment objective of the interactions with investors.
Company or the Board becomes unaware of the identity of the Companys shareholders.
Poor adherence to corporate The Board reviews all information supplied to shareholders and the AIFMs marketing governance best practice or errors or activity at each meeting and periodically reviews the Companys website.
Details of irregularities in published information the Companys compliance with corporate governance best practice, including could lead to censure by the FCA information on relationship with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate and or result in reputational damage to Governance Report on pages 37 and 38. the Company.
Operational The Companys service providers The Board reviews the terms of all major service agreements and the Audit perform poorly, fail to meet their Committee meets annually with the Companys auditors to discuss the years audit contractual obligations or fail to provide findings without management being present.
The AIFM reports by exception on the sufficient or accurate information to the performance of outsourced service providers and reviews contracts to ensure they Board for decision-making.
remain reasonable and competitive, undertaking tender processes when appropriate.
Errors regarding title to investment Both the AIFMs and the Portfolio Managers compliance officers report to the Audit holdings or threats to the solvency of the Committee at every meeting and their internal control report, together with the depositary may expose the Company to internal control report of the Custodian, are reviewed annually.
These reviews include financial loss.
consideration of the associated cyber security risks facing the Company.
The AIFM monitors the portfolio movements daily and the Depositary submits semiannual reports on the safe-keeping of the Companys assets.
The AIFM and the Depositary undertake stock reconciliations and produce monthly exceptions reports, with any discrepancies investigated promptly.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp01-pp25 SR 15 12 2017 13:19 Page 25 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 25 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Strategic Report Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Financial The Company is exposed to market risk, The Portfolio Manager is responsible for undertaking reviews of the creditworthiness liquidity risk, credit risk and fraud.
of the counterparties that it uses.
Compliance with investment guidelines is confirmed monthly.
The Board reviews a financial analysis at each meeting and the Depositary monitors all payments made from the Companys accounts as well as the custody of the Companys assets.
The AIFM confirms adherence with the relevant loan covenants to the provider of the Companys loan facility on a monthly basis.
Board approval is required for gearing and the Board reviews adherence to the loan covenants monthly.
Further information on financial instruments and risk can be found in note 17 to the Financial Statements beginning on page 59.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The regulatory environment in which the The Board relies on the services of its AIFM and its external advisers to ensure Company operates changes, affecting compliance with applicable laws and regulations including the Companies Act 2006, the Companys modus operandi.
the AIFM Rules, the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158, the Market Abuse Regulation MAR, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DGTRs and Failure to comply with applicable laws the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Board reviews compliance reports and internal control and regulations could expose the reports provided by its service providers, as well as the Companys financial statements Company to serious financial loss and and forecasts.
The Depositary reports twice yearly to the Audit Committee, confirming that the Company, acting through the AIFM, has been managed in accordance with the AIFMD, the FUND sourcebook, the Articles in relation to the calculation of the NAV per share and with investment restrictions and leverage limits set in its offering documents.
The Depositary Report can be found on page 77.
The Directors attend AIC Roundtables and conferences to keep up to date on regulatory changes and receive industry updates from the AIFM.
Approval The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 December 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Anthony Townsend Chairman FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
