Business Review PREPARING DUNELM FOR FUTURE GROWTH Dunelm is a great business which While we have continued to grow faster Offering a convenient home delivery has grown rapidly over its 38-year than the market, our share of 7.9% is still service is key and next-day, nominated history by offering great value for relatively low for a market leader and day time and other services such as money for customers.
Over time we the 12bn Homewares market remains furniture recycling are in high demand.
have developed an unrivalled range fragmented.
In furniture, where the UK In this area, we are really excited by the of homewares products and a low market size is 11bn, our share is even opportunities on the horizon, as we cost operating model, supported by a lower, at around 1%.
Our position in leverage our Dunelm Home Delivery strong balance sheet and robust cash both markets illustrates the scale of the Network.
generation, which allows us to continue opportunity still available to Dunelm.
We are delighted to have completed to invest for growth.
Online growth is impacting all retailers, the Worldstores acquisition and Our vision is to be the customers and is now part of customers everyday are excited about the opportunity it number one choice for Homewares shopping experience.
Competition provides us to accelerate and develop and Furniture.
We want to be famous from online pure-play operators and our multichannel capability.
It provides a for style, value, quality and ease of from the discounters is increasing in massive leap forward for our online and store offer which our customers will love including: WE HAVE A CLEAR PLAN AND WE ARE NOW WELL z Broader product ranges, with improved sourcing agility and a focus POSITIONED FOR CONSIDERABLE GROWTH AND on Furniture z An improved Home Delivery service SUCCESS IN A MULTICHANNEL WORLD IT IS NOW for two-man deliveries UP TO US TO CAPTURE THE OPPORTUNITY FOR z Improved technological capabilities including better websites for PROFITABLE GROWTH.
customers, and stronger delivery management shopping.
We are aiming to be twice the Homewares and Furniture markets.
z New reasons to shop with Dunelm in as big as today, in both sales and profit, However, our combined store and the Nursery category via Kiddicare and twice as good as we are today for online business enables us to offer a We anticipate the total investment for our customers.
leading customer proposition which the acquisition and integration will neither the discounters nor the pureOver the last 12 months we have made be approximately 25-30m, broadly play operators can match.
considerable progress in preparing the amount we would have invested Dunelm for future growth, while Our customers needs are clear to us.
ourselves to develop the same continuing to react to changing market Inspiration and convenience across capability, but over a longer period.
The conditions and customer needs.
Being able to acquisition means we have been able have grown sales in our core business, look, touch and feel products remains to accelerate our progress and increase and have benefited from further topimportant in the Homewares and our online presence.
We expect to reach line growth from the acquisition of Furniture categories where rendering near break-even in the Worldstores the Worldstores Group in November colour and texture online remains businesses in FY18 after integration 2016.
This is against the backdrop of a challenging.
This gives us confidence benets, and anticipate approximately challenging Homewares market in FY17 in continuing our roll-out of physical 10m further PBT improvement in FY19.
and warm weather, in the early part of stores which remain a highly profitable We have four succinct and enduring the year, which reduced footfall.
Continued growth business goals which help us shape in design and style-led purchases also and prioritise our activities to support provides us with opportunity to increase growth.
These sit above our eight footfall and visit frequency.
business objectives which we continue to use to co-ordinate actions and monitor progress internally.
indd 20 06 10 2017 12:13:52 Strategic Report Total Revenue growth % 8.5% 2016: 7.5% Homewares market share % 7.9% 2016: 7.8% With the acquisition of Worldstores, This year we trialled new formats in 1 Create new reasons we also now have access to around stores and have since used the learnings for customers to shop 300,000 new Homewares and Furniture to inform the design of 11 major store with Dunelm products which are available to shop rets.
The customer response has been We must never cease to innovate and on the Worldstores websites.
This is a encouraging and we see this essential adapt to offer more categories and significant extension to our range which maintenance capital expenditure as services to our customers.
We are our customers will love.
a real opportunity to make our store pleased with the progress we have environments more inspiring and easier In-store we have changed more made in the last 12 months and excited to shop, so as to support sales growth.
products this year and focused heavily about the ideas we have planned.
Our customers have also appreciated on our promotional ranges.
We want our new in-line till layouts which weve We grew our seasonal product offerings our customers to see new products continued to roll out this year.
across key Christmas and Summer each time they visit our stores and trading periods by 48% and 76%, websites.
We are constantly working We launched tablet-based selling respectively, and increased the online to bring a wide variety of styles to our in-store, providing customers with the prominence and marketing of them.
We anticipate that, over opportunity to access the full Dunelm doubled the seasonal space available time, this will improve our footfall and range from a store.
We supported by retting the front of store areas with conversion.
Whilst this has had a short colleagues with training on the new a new till conguration in 89 stores.
We term impact on the level of end of tablets and we have also trialled our believe there is much more potential season stock were carrying, it has also brand new tablet-based mobile point here and are taking ambitious steps to created more opportunities for our of sale system which has integrated drive more growth next year.
We plan to launch this across the store estate this During the year, we acquired the In the next year, we are really excited year.
This will allow our colleagues to Kiddicare and Achica brands as part of about the planned re-launch of our sell customers our full product range the Worldstores acquisition.
Alongside Made to Measure curtains and blinds including Worldstores products, the Worldstores benets mentioned offer online.
Also, we will make progress seamlessly for Home Delivery and, in above, we are particularly excited by the on our Furniture offer, improving range, the future, Click & Collect.
opportunities Kiddicare provides as a service and economics.
We believe we new Nursery category for Dunelm.
We have significant growth ahead of us in Developing a market leading twohave begun work to rebrand our own these categories.
man eet capability is a key priority kids ranges to Kiddicare, and are well for Dunelm to unlock the potential progressed with plans to trial opening 2 Easy and inspiring for opportunity for Furniture growth.
The a number of Kiddicare departments in eet network acquired from Worldstores customers to shop existing Dunelm stores as part of our operates from a series of hubs both in-store and online ret programme.
The largest of these throughout the UK.
This enables us to Our stores provide a fantastic will be 10,000 square feet, a substantial sell items we dont hold in stock, limiting opportunity for us to showcase product space investment.
Kiddicare offers a working capital investment.
We have ranges and inspire customers as they fantastic range proposition and has developed and begun implementing browse and shop Homewares.
Our the potential to bring new customer plans to improve further the last delivery websites provide the same opportunity groups to our stores and websites, mile, and provide amazing service for customers at home or on the go.
We just at the point where they become for our customers.
In April, we began are working hard to create a seamless more interested in our Homewares and offering Dunelm products via this proposition across all channels, making Furniture ranges.
service and we are well on the way to relife easier for our customers wherever branding and re-working the operation and whenever they shop with us.
to become the Dunelm Home Delivery Network.
21 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Front.
indd 21 06 10 2017 12:13:55 Business Review CONTINUED This year we have restructured our LED lighting up to 125.
Our focus on Made to Measure business.
We have recycling and landll diversion has brought our consultants back into store enabled us to reduce our General Waste from previously being out on the road tonnage by 6.5% year on year, generate to enable them to showcase the product significant revenues from recycling, and range displays to customers more improve our landll diversion by three effectively and to reduce appointment percentage points to 92%.
We have introduced a In our stores, we focused on renew seven-day express service, initially organising and streamlining activities in two of our areas.
We have also to create more customer facing time.
increased the offer of our tting service We diverted approximately 400,000 from around 100 to 150 stores.
This has hours from operational tasks to supported the growth of blinds and Summary and Outlook customer service and developed shutter sales, up by 25% in the year.
The progress made last year, combined improved stock management routines, creating more accurate stock les and with the Worldstores acquisition, A simple and low cost 3 provides a massive leap forward better availability for customers when operating model browsing our stores.
Stock le accuracy for our customers.
We have made Our low cost operating model and several changes which help us create will become even more critical as we dedication to keeping things simple develop our Click & Collect service to a seamless multi-channel offer and will has created a straightforward business support the trading performance of the ensure we dont add additional cost into platform for future growth.
business principle, it is essential we The improved technology, range continue to keep our business simple 4 A great place to work and eet capabilities provided by and free from unnecessary complexity for our colleagues the Worldstores acquisition, have so we can continue to deliver great Making Dunelm a great place to work accelerated our progression and we value for money.
has been a long-standing goal as we are excited by the opportunities which Last year we consolidated the oneknow that highly engaged colleagues Kiddicare will bring in terms of new man Home Delivery warehousing provide better service to our customers.
and existing customer footfall, trading operation into our main warehouse densities improvements and brand We are encouraged with the progress facilities in Stoke.
This has allowed us recognition.
made this year in creating better, more to maintain one stock le, improve our rewarding jobs for colleagues in stores The Homewares market remains product availability for customers, and and in support functions, and the fact uncertain and favourable weather reduce the cost of transporting product that were promoting more and more cooler and wetter is never guaranteed.
We have also completed internal colleagues to assistant manager However, we have a clear plan and are the transfer of the Kiddicare and Achica and manager level roles demonstrates well positioned for considerable growth operations from their previous site in improvements were making to identify and success in a multichannel world.
We already have a leading customer We launched a paperless project offer which were making even stronger.
Great leadership makes a huge last year and have been successful in We have a low cost operating model difference and we have invested reducing the amount of paper and which we will protect.
It is now up to us more in management and leadership printing used across the business to capture the opportunity for profitable development training and will by 33%.
We have broadened the use growth which lies ahead of us.
Weve also made of technology and introduced more big improvements to our internal applications for a variety of business communications and made changes Andy Harrison activities from colleague scheduling to to numerous people processes Chairman communications.
We will continue to including appraisals and recruitment to focus on technology as an enabler for Keith Down promote better colleague support and improved working practices.
Our focus on activities which have a 13 September 2017 We have recently re-launched, benefit on the environment continued.
company-wide, our business principles During the year, we reduced CO 2 which were really proud of.
We want emissions by 5.3%, supported by the to ensure all colleagues can live these completion of 37 LED rets in the year every day.
taking the total number of stores with 22 dunelm.
