EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 20 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the The Company may employ gearing when the Manager believes it is ability to assess how the Company has performed.
To assist appropriate to do so.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, shareholders with this assessment, the Strategic Report sets out the the Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under structure and objective of the Company, its investment policies and risk normal market conditions.
management, investment limits and restrictions, performance and key The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the number performance indicators, share capital, the Companys environmental, of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated social and ethical policy, principal risks and how the Company seeks to portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and 90 investments.
manage those risks and finally its long term viability.
The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong emerging markets equity Structure and Objective of the Company team who are based across the world.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc is an investment It should be noted that historically, emerging market companies trust company that has a premium listing on the London Stock and investments in their shares have shown greater volatility and Exchange.
Its objective is to maximise total return from emerging may be subject to certain political and corporate governance risks markets worldwide through a diversified portfolio of underlying which are not typically associated with more developed markets investments.
In seeking to achieve this objective the Company and economies.
employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF to actively manage the Companys assets.
The Board has determined an investment policy Investment Restrictions and Guidelines and related guidelines and limits, as described below.
It aims to outperform the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with net dividends The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing various reinvested, in sterling terms.
investment limits and restrictions: The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and The Company will not invest more than 10% of its total assets in regulations including UK company law, Financial Reporting any one individual stock excluding investment trusts at the time Standards, the UKLA Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and of acquisition.
Transparency Rules, Market Abuse Regulation, taxation law and the No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be invested in Companys own Articles of Association.
The Company is an any one region.
investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys assets Customs as an investment trust for the purposes of Sections 1158 before deducting borrowings may be invested in: i securities and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended not listed on any recognised investment exchange: and 30th June 2013 and future years.
The Directors have no reason to ii holdings in which the Companys interest amounts to 20% or believe that approval will not continue to be obtained.
The Company more of the aggregate of the equity capital including any capital is not a close company for taxation purposes.
having an element of equity of any one listed company other than an investment trust which has been approved by A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the HM Revenue & Customs or which would qualify for such approval Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4 and in the Investment but for the fact that it is not listed.
Managers Report on pages 5 to 10.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in Investment Policies and Risk Management other UK listed closed-ended investment funds and will not invest In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to manage more than 10% of its gross assets in companies that themselves risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread of countries, may invest more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed industries and companies.
The Company invests primarily in quoted closed-ended investment funds.
securities in emerging stock markets but, where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable quoted securities, it may The Company does not normally enter into derivative transactions, invest in unquoted securities.
It may invest in other collective other than short term forward currency contracts to manage investment schemes, but usually only where legal restrictions working capital requirements and to do so requires prior Board prevent direct investment by foreign investors or prudent approval.
diversification can best be achieved in this way.
The Company These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time conducts its affairs so as to achieve and maintain approved at its discretion.
investment trust status in the UK.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines The Company is managed to produce total return and not to is monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the level Board on a monthly basis.
20 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 21 within the market.
This should help to reduce the volatility and Performance absolute level of the discount to NAV per share at which the In the year to 30th June 2017, the Company produced a total return Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in the sector.
to shareholders of 27.3% 2016: 9.3% and a total return on net In the year to 30th June 2017, the Companys shares traded at assets of 23.4% 2016: 12.7%.
This compares with the return on a discount to the capital only net asset value per share between the Companys benchmark index of 27.4% 2016: 3.5%.
At 10.5% and 13.1% based on month end data.
30th June 2017, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 1,109.3 million 2016: 901.0 million.
The Investment Discount Performance Managers Report on pages5to10 includes a review of 2 developments during the year as well as information on investment 4 activity within the Companys portfolio.
6 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 8 Gross total return for the year amounted to 227.3 million 10 2016: 113.1 million and net total return after deducting 12 management fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to 214.5 million 2016: 102.5 million.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to capital only net asset The Directors recommend a final dividend of 11.0p per share payable value per share.
on 1st December 2017 to holders on the register at the close of Ongoing charges business on 27th October 2017.
This distribution will amount to The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee 13.6 million.
The revenue reserve after payment of the final and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs, dividend will amount to 12.4 million.
expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets during the year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 30th June 2017 Key Performance Indicators KPIs were 1.07% 2016: 1.16%.
The Board reviews each year an The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys ongoing the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: charges and its main expenses with those of its peers.
Performance against the benchmark index Share Capital This is the most important KPI by which performance is judged.
Information on the Companys performance is given in the The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority both Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation, or holding in Also, please refer to the graphs on page12.
Treasury, and to issue new shares for cash or from Treasury on behalf of the Company.
Performance against the Companys peers The principal objective is to maximise total return relative to the A total of 2,266,859 shares nominal value 566,715 were benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the performance repurchased into Treasury during the year under review, for a total relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
This represented 1.8% of the shares in issue at the start of the financial year.
The Company did not allot Performance attribution any new shares for cash.
Since the year end 127,348 shares have The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess been repurchased into Treasury.
how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to Companys relative performance of the various components repurchase shares for cancellation and or for holding in Treasury such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Details of the will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General attribution analysis for the year ended 30th June 2017 are given Meeting.
in the Investment Managers Report on page7.
The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share on pages65 and66.
The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys shares 21 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 22 Strategic Report continued BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Board Diversity The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in bringing an trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods At 30th June 2017, there were five male Directors and one female and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA Director on the Board.
requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
JPMorgans statement on the MSA can be found on the following website: https: www.
com corporate CorporateEmployees, Social, Community and Human Rights Responsibility document modern-slavery-act.
pdf Issues The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no Principal Risks employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
The day to day The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board notes those that would threaten its business model, future performance, the JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM policy statements in solvency or liquidity.
respect of Social, Community and Environmental and Human Rights issues, as highlighted in italics: With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
In assessing Social, Environmental and Human Rights the risks and how they can be mitigated, the Board has given particular attention to those issues that threaten the viability of the JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests categories: of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate investment share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within strategy, for example asset allocation, the level of gearing or the JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked degree of portfolio risk, could lead to underperformance against with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments and JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of through a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which are Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Manager with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when provides the Directors with timely and accurate management making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our information, including performance data and attribution analyses, detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on revenue estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict investment process with the Investment Manager, who attends investments in securities issued by companies that have been all Board meetings, and reviews data which show statistical identified by an independent third party provider as being involved in measures of the Companys risk profile.
the manufacture, production or supply of cluster munitions, depleted Political and Economic: Administrative risks, such as the uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel mines.
imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital, Shareholders can obtain further details on the policy by contacting significant changes to the benchmark index and therefore the the Manager.
investment universe and the underperformance of emerging markets as an asset class.
These risks are discussed by the Board Greenhouse Gas Emissions on a regular basis.
The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of its Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities being carried departure of the investment manager or several members of out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made the investment management team could result in a short-term in respect of employees.
The Company has no premises, consumes deterioration in investment performance.
The Manager takes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have steps to reduce the likelihood of such an event by ensuring a measurable carbon footprint.
JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a team Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator based approach, as well as special efforts to retain key personnel.
Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
22 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 23 Strategy Business Management: An inappropriate corporate associates and the key elements designed to provide effective initiative, for example a takeover of another company or an issue risk management and internal controls are included within the of new capital: misuse of the investment trust structure, for Risk Management and Internal Controls section of the Corporate example inappropriate gearing: or if the Companys business Governance Statement on pages 30 and 31.
The threat of cyber strategy is no longer appropriate, may lead to a lack of investor attack, in all its guises, is regarded as at least as important as demand.
The Board discusses these risks regularly and takes more traditional physical threats to business continuity and advice from the Manager and its professional advisers.
The Board has received the cyber security policies for its key third party service providers and JPMF has assured Directors Share Price Discount: A disproportionate widening of the share that the Company benefits directly or indirectly from all elements price discount relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The information of value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount technology controls around the physical security of JPMorgans policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the data centres, security of its networks and security of its trading Companys broker to follow.
applications are tested by an independent third party and Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board holds reported every six months against the AAF Standard.
regular meetings with senior representatives of JPMF in order to Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include obtain assurance that the Manager continues to demonstrate market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further details a high degree of commitment to its investment trusts business are disclosed in note 21 on pages58to63.
through the provision of significant resources.
Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment trust, Long Term Viability the Company must comply with Section 1158.
Details of the Taking account of the Companys current position, the principal risks Companys approval are given under Structure and Objective of that it faces and their potential impact on its future development the Company on page 20.
Should the Company breach Section and prospects, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the 1158, it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, Company, to the extent that they are able to do so, over the next gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital five years.
They have made that assessment by considering those Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually principal risks, the Companys investment objective and strategy, monitored by the Manager and the results reported to the Board the investment capabilities of the Manager and the current outlook each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions for emerging markets economies and equity markets.
of the Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure In determining the appropriate period of assessment the Directors Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the had regard to their view that, given the Companys objective of Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Directors maximising total return, shareholders should consider the Company being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the as a long term investment proposition.
This is consistent with advice UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares provided by investment advisers, that investors should consider being suspended from listing which in turn would breach Section investing in equities for a minimum of five years.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary consider five years to be an appropriate time horizon to assess the and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companys viability.
Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
The Directors confirm that, assuming a successful continuation vote Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the at the 2017 AGM, they have a reasonable expectation that the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its including information on relations with shareholders, are set out liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages28to32.
Operational and Cyber Crime: Loss of key staff by the Manager, For and on behalf of the Board such as the Investment Manager, could affect the performance of Alan Saunders, the Company.
Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers Chairman accounting, dealing or payments systems or the Depositary or Custodians records may prevent accurate reporting and 5th October 2017 monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Under the terms of its agreement, the Depositary has strict liability for the loss or misappropriation of assets held in custody.
See note 21 c for further details on the responsibilities of the Depositary.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by JPMF and its 23
