2 Galliford Try plc Our businesses at a glance Galliford Try has three strong businesses.
Linden Homes Linden Homes develops private and affordable homes for sale.
Partnerships & Regeneration works to increase the A top UK housebuilder supply of housing across all tenures.
Our Construction business is a major contractor, working primarily in 01 the public and regulated sectors.
Partnerships & Regeneration A leading UK regeneration specialist 01 Construction A major national contractor 01 Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 3 Financial Statements 2017 02 Revenue 937m Linden Homes delivered 3,296 new homes in 2016 17, of which 77% were for private sale.
We have a strong presence in the South and East 11% of England, a growing footprint in the North and Midlands, and the potential for further expansion.
Profit from operations 03 We develop high-quality homes for first-time buyers and families.
Our sites are in good locations, close to transport links and local 170.3m amenities.
We create sustainable developments by designing homes to complement their surroundings, while maximising the benefits of 16% internal standardisation.
Where the market requires, we have a proven ability to create bespoke designs and high-rise developments.
Waterside, South London 02 Revenue 330m Partnerships & Regeneration is our specialist regeneration business.
It has a strong track record of delivery and a growing national footprint.
10% We have strong relationships with the Homes and Communities Agency Profit from operations and Greater London Authority, provide contracting services to housing 03 associations, local authorities and other Registered Providers, and develop mixed-tenure projects, providing private housing for sale on 14.9m regeneration-led sites.
We use the Linden Homes brand to differentiate our developments and draw on Linden Homes retail expertise to deliver 27% these projects successfully.
Our ability to provide development solutions across tenures and work with clients as contractor, developer and investor distinguishes us from our peers.
Pretoria Road, North London Business review p30 02.
Bournville Gardens Retirement Village, Birmingham 02 Revenue 1,527m Construction operates nationwide, primarily under the Galliford Try and Morrison Construction brands.
Our network of regional offices is a key 2% advantage, enabling us to deploy our national strength using a local approach.
Pre-exceptional loss The business is organised into the Building, Infrastructure and PPP 1 from operations 03 Investments divisions.
It also includes facilities management, telecommunications, dry lining and our national piling specialists, Rock & Alluvium.
0.9 m Building Building serves a range of clients across the UK, with a substantial presence -106% in Scotland.
We work with clients in the public and regulated sectors, in particular the health, education and defence markets.
We also serve commercial clients, mainly in the South East and Midlands.
40 Brighton Road, Surrey Infrastructure carries out civil engineering projects.
Skipton Flood Alleviation in the transport sector including road, rail and airports, the water and Scheme, Yorkshire wastewater sector and the flood alleviation sector.
1 Reported loss from operations was 88.8 million.
PPP Investments PPP Investments delivers major building and infrastructure projects through public private partnerships.
The business leads bid consortia and arranges finance, making equity investments and managing construction through to operations.
