28 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business reviews: North America Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points North America % % % North America, the largest market for premium drinks in the world, represents about a third of our net sales and around half of operating profit.
The consumer is at the center of everything we do and i Ready to drink we are focused on sustainable US Spirits Other Spirits Value Super premium principally DBC USA Beer O ther Standard Ultra premium growth through our strategy of Travel Retail Canada Premium getting the right brands in the i excluding RTDs right occasions at the right price.
The demographic and economic  Organic Reported Key financials i 2016 Exchange cation and disposals movement 2017 movement trends in North America are in million million million million million million % Net sales 3,565 588 19 132 121 4,161 17 our favour and the industry is Marketing 541 86 9 24 642 19 projected to grow in line with Operating profit 1,551 270 15 13 76 1,899 22 performance seen over the past i Reclassification comprise changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the several years.
Route to consumer Sustainability and responsibility Our markets The route to consumer in the United States Core to our success in North America, our The North America business is is through the three-tier system and we largest market, is our reputation as a leading headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut, and distribute our products through voice on responsible drinking.
We have some comprises US Spirits, Diageo Beer Company approximately 40 spirits distributors and industry firsts to our name, for example USA DBC USA and Diageo Canada.
brokers, and more than 400 beer distributors.
including nutritional information on our We have a unique route to consumer for our Crown Royal packaging, following our Supply operations spirits business in the United States, with 12-year campaign for alcohol companies to We have nine bottling, distilling, blending approximately 3,000 dedicated distributor be allowed to include alcohol content and and maturation sites including operations sales people focused only on Diageo and nutritional information per serve on in Plainfield, Illinois: Amherstburg, Ontario: Mot Hennessy spirits brands.
We have packaging passed in 2015.
In 2016 we Valleyfield, Quebec: Relay, Maryland: Gimli, consolidated our US Spirits business into launched an innovative virtual film designed Manitoba: Tullahoma, Tennessee and single distributors or brokers in 41 states and to prevent drink driving and an online Shelbyville and Louisville, Kentucky.
Over the District of Columbia, representing more version of our DRINKiQ training course the last five years, we have made significant than 80% of our US Spirits volume.
changes to our supply footprint in North The US Spirits business operates through As a producer in the region, we are America as we focus on continuously three divisions in open states where we sell looking at our impact across the whole improving efficiency across our supply to distributors who then sell to retailers, and supply chain.
This includes how we work to chain.
In addition to opening a brand new through two divisions in control states where support diversity amongst our supply base, distillery in Shelbyville, Kentucky the home we sell to the state, which in turn sells to tracking ownership as part of promoting of Bulleit Frontier Whiskey we have recently state or agency stores and on premise greater diversity.
We are also ensuring our received approval to construct a Guinness retailers.
DBC USA sells and markets brands environmental performance at our new brewery and brew pub at our existing site including Guinness and Smirnoff Ice.
Beer Bulleit distillery in Kentucky matches the in Relay, Maryland.
distribution generally follows the three-tier leading performance of our existing open state regulations across the United distilleries in carbon and water States.
Diageo Canada distributes our management as well as waste and other portfolio of spirits and beer brands across all environmental impacts.
The distillery is using Canadian provinces, which generally operate green electricity and has enough solar through a provincial control system.
Diageo panels on site to power all electricitypowered forklifts and utility vehicles.
Canada operates through a single broker with a dedicated sales force handling our brands in the country.
National brand strategy, strategic accounts marketing and corporate functions are managed at the North America level.
Strategic report Business reviews: North America DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 North America delivered net sales growth share gains in a weak rum category as it Key highlights of 3% with full year performance encouraged consumers to Live like a Net sales in US Spirits were up 3%.
improving in US Spirits and Diageo Beer Captain through its new campaign, Diageo maintained its leadership position Company USA DBC USA, and Canada innovated with the launch of LocoNut in the North American whisk e y category continuing to grow.
Full year depletion and new signature serve Morgan Mule.
in the United States with Crown Royal and net sales growth in US Spirits was 3%.
Don Julio net sales grew 20% building on and Bulleit delivering strong net sales Share gains were achieved in all key the momentum of last year.
Tanqueray growth and continued share gains.
North American gin and Baileys grew net sales and Royal net sales increased 13% with the whisk e y, scotch and tequila delivered continued category share gains.
launch of Crown Royal Vanilla and the the strongest category performance.
DBC USA net sales increased 3% with continued growth of Crown Royal Deluxe North American whisk e y net sales grew ready to drink growing 5% and beer flat.
and Crown Royal Regal Apple.
Johnnie 12% as momentum on Crown Royal and Ready to drink growth was driven by Walker net sales grew 8% with growth in Bulleit continued.
Scotch grew 8% driven strong growth of Smirnoff Ice which Johnnie Walker Black Label and reserve by Johnnie Walker Black Label, Buchanans benefited from a packaging and liquid variants driven by the successful Keep and reserve variants.
Captain Morgan and renovation, activation against the football Walking America platform, scaled up Baileys performance improved versus last consumption occasion and the launch of liquid on lips and focus on gifting.
Vodka net sales declined 8% two new flavours of Smirnoff Ice Spiked, malts grew 9% with the launch of The primarily driven by Croc and Ketel One.
as well as the launch of Smirnoff Spiked Singleton and Lagavulin benefiting from Smirnoff depletion volume was flat but Sparkling Seltzer.
Guinness net sales grew the award winning My Tales of Whisky net sales were down as we continued to 1% offsetting declines on Smithwicks ale partnership with Nick Offerman.
Vodka focus on inventory management and and Harp lager.
decline was driven primarily by Croc and made price adjustments in the first half.
Net sales in Canada grew 3%, driven by Ketel One declining 15% and 6%, DBC USA net sales grew 3% with ready to growth in Smirnoff, Crown Royal, Johnnie respectively.
Croc performance was drink growing and beer flat.
Net sales in primarily impacted by the lapping of the Walker and ready to drink.
Smirnoff grew Canada were up 3%.
Marketing in North 5% through its continued association successful Apple flavour innovation with America increased 4%, growing ahead of with music through the Smirnoff Sound a smaller Mango launch and a decline in net sales with increased activity on core Collective and increased digital presence legacy flavours.
Smirnoff depletion brands in the second half.
Operating volume was flat and brand equity scores in search.
Crown Royal continued to margin increased 51bps as positive mix benefit from the We Make Whisky improved as consumers were reminded and productivity initiatives delivered The Canadian Way campaign, which that it is a quality vodka at a great price gross margin expansion with zero based highlights the brands quality and through a new campaign involving budgeting and organisational celebrity influencers and activation craftmanship and from the launch of effectiveness changes driving lower Crown Royal Vanilla.
Ready to drink against millennials and multi-cultural overhead cost, partially offset by growth was driven by Smirnoff which consumers.
Captain Morgan made strong increased marketing.
benefited from packaging renovation Reported Organic Reported and launch of new flavours.
Organic volume volume net sales net sales movement movement movement movement Marketing grew 4% with increased Markets: % % % % activity on core brands in the second North America 2 1 3 17 half funded partially from productivity initiatives.
US Spirits 2 1 3 17 DBC USA 2 4 3 12 Canada 2 2 3 17 i Spirits 1 1 3 20 Beer 1 9 8 Ready to drink 4 4 4 21 Organic Reported Organic volume net sales net sales Global giants and local stars ii movement movement movement i and reserve : % % % Crown Royal 10 12 30 Smirnoff 1 2 15 Captain Morgan 4 4 21 Johnnie Walker 3 6 23 Ketel One vodka 3 6 9 Croc 13 15 1 Baileys 3 2 19 Guinness 1 18 Tanqueray 1 1 15 Don Julio 16 19 39 Bulleit 22 23 43 Buchanans 12 7 25 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Organic equals reported volume movement.
30 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business reviews: Europe, Russia and Turkey Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Europe, Russia % % % and Turkey Diageo is the largest premium drinks business in Europe.
Within the geography of Europe there are three markets: Europe, Russia and Turkey.
In Europe consumer i Europe Ready to drink Other Spirits Value Super premium principally Russia Beer O ther Standard Ultra premium marketing programmes are Travel Retail Turkey Premium developed at a market level to i excluding RTDs drive consistency, efficiency and Acquisitions Organic Reported scale across all countries.
In Russia Key financials Reclassifii 2016 Exchange and disposals movement 2017 movement cation million million million million million % we are driving our premium core, million Net sales 2,544 211 37 96 128 2,824 11 standard and value brands and Marketing 404 22 5 2 14 443 10 reserve portfolio, whilst in Turkey, Operating profit we use our local businesses route before exceptional items 801 64 14 10 67 936 17 to consumer to drive growth in Exceptional international premium spirits.
In ii operating items 33 Europe our reputation as a trusted Operating profit 801 903 13 and respected company and for i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the geographical regions and the results of Lebanon, other Middle Eastern and North African countries which were groundbreaking innovation, is key formerly reported in Asia Pacific and Africa geographical regions now being included in Europe, Russia and Turkey.
ii For further details of exceptional operating items see pages 110 and 111. to our ability to attract and retain the people we need to deliver our Ireland and Italy.
The ISC exports whisky, In Turkey, we sell our products via the Performance Ambition.
distribution network of Mey ki, our wholly vodka, gin, rum, beer, wine, cream liqueurs, and other spirit-based drinks to over 180 owned subsidiary.
Mey ki distributes both Our markets countries.
Through our planned 1 billion local brands raki, other spirits and wine and Europe comprises Great Britain, Ireland, investment in Scotch whisky production and Diageos global spirits brands.
France, Continental Europe including inventory, distilling capacity has increased by Northern Europe, Germany, Austria and over 25% since 2012.
Raki, vodka and wine Sustainability and responsibility Switzerland, Poland, Iberia, the Mediterranean are produced at a number of sites in Turkey Concern over harmful drinking is high on the and the Europe Partner Markets distribution and Smirnov vodka and other local brands public agenda in this region, so our work to businesses, while Russia and Turkey are promote responsible drinking is both a key are produced in Russia.
Europe is managed as issue and a key strength.
Our responsible a single market with country teams focusing Route to consumer drinking programmes aim to tackle drink on sales and customer marketing execution.
In Great Britain we sell and market our driving, underage drinking and heavy episodic drinking.
For example, our Smashed products through Diageo GB spirits, beer Supply operations and ready to drink and Justerini & Brooks programme in Great Britain brings theatre The International Supply Centre ISC Fine Wines wines private clients.
Products to schools to discourage underage drinking, comprises the supply operations in the are distributed through independent and we work with retailers from Tesco in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy.
The group UK to Auchan in Italy to provide consumer wholesalers and directly to retailers.
In owns 29 whisky distilleries in Scotland, a the on-trade, products are sold through information about responsible drinking.
This Dublin based brewery, maturation and major brewers, multiple retail groups and focus is at the heart of our Learning for Life packaging facilities in Scotland, England, smaller regional independent brewers programme, which is helping to train a new generation of people in the hospitality and wholesalers.
In the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, Diageo sells and industry in Europe.
Of those taking part, more distributes directly to the on-trade and the than 70% secured lasting employment within off-trade as well as wholesalers.
In France our 12 months of completing the programme.
products are sold through a joint venture Our manufacturing operations, notably arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
In our distilleries in Scotland and our Guinness Continental Europe, we distribute our spirits brewery in Ireland, aim for leadership in safety brands primarily through our own distribution standards and environmental sustainability.
Europe Partner Markets distributes Our plans for a new distillery at St Jamess Gate our beer brands in mainland Europe, focusing in Dublin include the same high standards of on Germany, Russia and France, our largest environmental performance and management mainland European beer markets.
that we expect from any of our new facilities, In Russia we operate through wholly and build on the leading performance of the owned subsidiaries.
new Brewhouse at St Jamess Gate.
Strategic report Business reviews: Europe, Russia and Turkey DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 The region delivered 5% net sales to expanded distribution, gaining share Tanqueray, all achieving share gains in growth reflecting continued strong of 80bps in the gin category.
performance in Europe and good net Morgan grew 6%, taking 300bps of share Benelux net sales were down 2% within sales growth in Russia and Turkey.
and gained category leading status.
Performance InEurope, net sales were up 4% with Innovation success with Hop House 13 continued to be impacted by a significant Continental Europe and Great Britain the Lager and Smirnoff Cider also contributed tax increase implemented in the prior main contributors.
Europe continued to to growth this year.
Reserve brands were year in Belgium.
gain share in spirits, taking 20bps over up 15% driven by Tanqueray and the In Italy, net sales were up 5%, mainly due the year.
Strong performance on Johnnie launch of Haig Club Clubman.
Smirnoff to strong net sales growth in Tanqueray in Walker, Baileys and Captain Morgan gained share due to momentum of the a growing gin category.
Tanqueray had double digit Were Open platform but net sales fell Poland net sales grew 9% due to growth in most countries across Europe 7%, due to changes in the commercial performance improvement in scotch and and Guinness net sales were up 2% footprint leading to efficiencies including reserve brands.
supported by innovations from the The inventory reduction.
Europe Partner Markets grew net sales Brewers Project.
Strong performance in Net sales in Ireland were flat.
Guinness 12% due to an expanded distribution reserve brands continued with 9% net sales were up 2% driven by continued footprint and performance improvement growth.
In Russia, whilst the prior year success of Hop House 13 Lager, offset by in Johnnie Walker, Captain Morgan and price increases continued to impact other beer brands where net sales Guinness.
performance with volume down 4%, net declined 4%.
Net sales growth in spirits of Russia net sales grew 7%.
While sales grew 7% with share gains in Bells 10% was driven by Gordons and Smirnoff.
performance continues to be impacted and Johnnie Walker.
In Turkey, volumes In France, net sales were flat.
Continued by the economy and recent history of were down 2% but net sales grew 4%, strong performance in Captain Morgan price increases, Russia achieved double also driven by price rises following excise and Zacapa, was offset by weakness in digit growth in Bells and Johnnie Walker, increases.
Gross margins were up across JB and Smirnoff including ready to drink.
with share gains across both brands.
the three markets driven by positive mix In Continental Europe, net sales were Performance improved due to broader in Europe and price in Russia and Turkey.
up 7%: distribution in the off-trade, increased Operating margin in the region increased Net sales in Iberia were up 7% due to activations and consistent execution of 91bps driven mainly by positive price changes in the commercial footprint in growth drivers as well as innovation mix and ongoing productivity initiatives the prior year and Scotch share gain in a success with Bells Spiced.
partially offset by other one off growing scotch category, with Johnnie In Turkey, net sales grew 4% reflecting operating costs.
Walker net sales growth of 7% and JB the impact of price rises taken in response returning to growth of 3%.
Tanqueray to increases in excise duties.
This net sales were up 9% in a growing Key highlights performance was delivered in a gin category.
challenging market, driven by 5% growth In Europe net sales were up 4%: In Germany, Austria and Switzerland, in raki.
Johnnie Walker continued to In Great Britain, net sales grew 3%.
net sales grew 10% driven by double digit deliver double digit growth.
Tanqueray grew strong double digit due growth in Baileys, Johnnie Walker and Marketing increased 3% and benefited from productivity initiatives which Reported Organic Reported improved efficiency and effectiveness Organic volume volume net sales net sales movement movement movement movement of the brand investment.
The region Markets: % % % % continues to be focused on the key Europe, Russia and Turkey 3 1 5 11 growth opportunities including reserve Europe 3 4 9 brands, gin, scotch, beer and innovation with up-weighted spend in the Russia 4 4 7 41 second half.
Turkey 2 2 4 6 i Spirits 3 4 5 15 Beer 2 1 2 10 Ready to drink 2 2 3 5 Organic Reported Organic volume net sales net sales ii movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % Guinness 2 2 10 Johnnie Walker 10 10 34 Smirnoff 2 4 2 Baileys 8 6 16 2 4 5 Yen Raki Captain Morgan 14 12 23 JB 2 14 Tanqueray 33 29 43 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Organic equals reported volume movement except Johnnie Walker 19% and JB 3% which were impacted by the reclassification of Middle Eastern and North African countries to the region.
32 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business reviews: Africa Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Africa % % % In Africa our strategy is to grow Diageos leadership across beer and spirits by providing brand choice across a broad range of consumer motivations, profiles, price points and occasions.
We are i East Africa Nigeria Ready to drink focused on growing beer faster Spirits Value Super premium Africa Regional South Africa Beer O ther Standard Ultra premium than the market and accelerating Markets ARM Other Premium principally the growth of spirits through Travel Retail i excluding RTDs continued investment in infrastructure and brands with Acquisitions Organic Reported Key financials Reclassifimainstream spirits being critical i 2016 Exchange and disposals movement 2017 movement cation million million million million million % million to realising the potential of the Net sales 1,401 78 13 15 75 1,556 11 region.
Local sourcing is a key Marketing 143 13 2 5 7 166 16 element of our strategy in Africa Operating profit 212 7 7 14 20 218 3 as it directly supports our i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the geographical regions and the results of North African countries which were formerly reported in the Africa commercial operations, while geographical regions now being included in Europe, Russia and Turkey.
indirectly supporting our position by bringing wider benefits to Route to consumer 2020, from some 50,000 farmers.
In 2017 we In Africa our largest businesses are in Nigeria, had reached 76%.
Through our Sustainable society as a whole.
where we own 54.32% of a listed company Agriculture Strategy, we are supporting farmers in our supply chain to develop whose principal brands are Guinness, Orijin, Our markets Harp and Malta, and in East Africa, where we economically, environmentally and socially The region comprises East Africa Kenya, own 50.03% of East African Breweries Limited sustainable farming practices.
For example, Tanzania, Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and EABL.
EABL produces and distributes beer we are carrying out a pilot in Northern South Sudan, Africa Regional Markets Tanzania to help barley farmers improve and spirits brands to a range of consumers including Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, in Kenya and Uganda, and owns 51% of their livelihoods through better resilience Angola and a sorghum beer business in Serengeti Breweries Limited located in to drought and broader sustainable South Africa, Nigeria and South Africa Tanzania.
Within Africa Regional Markets, agriculture practices.
including the Republic of South Africa and we have wholly owned subsidiaries in Fifteen of our production sites in Africa Mozambique.
Cameroon, Ethiopia and Reunion and are in water-stressed areas, so we focus majority owned subsidiaries in Ghana and closely on managing water efficiently Supply operations the Seychelles.
Angola is supplied via a third and enhancing access to clean water to We operate 12 breweries in Africa, three sites party distributor.
In South Africa and surrounding communities through our that produce sorghum beer in South Africa, Mozambique we sell spirits, beer, cider and pan-African Water of Life programme.
one cider plant and five facilities which ready to drink products through wholly This provided more than 173,000 provide blending and malting services.
Diageo has agreements additional people with safe water in 2017, In addition, our beer and spirits brands are with the Castel Group who license, brew and securing a basic resource that underpins produced under licence by third-parties distribute Guinness in several countries their community.
Diageo sells A major focus of our work in Africa centres spirits through distributors in the majority on preventing drink driving.
This year our of other sub-Saharan countries.
partnership with the United Nations Training and Research Institute UNITAR brought Sustainability and responsibility together regional and local stakeholders to We have a large production footprint, and promote road safety in Nigeria and South our overall approach is to consider the Africa.
We also support awareness and broader context of our contribution as a education campaigns in all our major local taxpayer, employer and member of markets and work with transportation the community.
Our sourcing strategy is authorities on training and enforcement particularly important, and we aim to source initiatives.
And we work with partners, such 80% of agricultural raw materials locally by as community health care workers in Ethiopia, to reduce underage drinking.
Strategic report Business reviews: Africa DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 Africa delivered net sales growth of 5% In Cameroon, net sales growth of 3% was Key highlights with all markets contributing to growth driven largely by ready to drink, up 42%.
In East Africa, net sales were flat.
Beer except East Africa, which remained flat.
This was led by Orijin ready to drink was down 4%, driven by the impact of East Africa performance was driven by following the launch last year.
Spirits also the duty increase on bottled beer mainstream spirits up 24%, with strong contributed to the good performance affecting Guinness and Tusker, partially growth of Kenya Cane offset by beer, driven predominately by Johnnie Walker offset by growth in Senator of 14%.
down 4%, due to a significant increase Black Label, up 17%.
Malta Guinness Growth in value beers was supplemented induty in Kenya in December 2015. declined due to rising competition by Ngule, a new value price point AfricaRegional Markets were up 5% in the category.
Spirits grew 17% driven by the relaunch of Meta in In Nigeria, net sales increased 16% driven driven by mainstream spirits, up 24%.
Ethiopia and in Ghana, good growth of by beer growth up 11%.
The beer value Reserve brands grew double digit Guinness and Malta Guinness, partially category continues to grow and now following enhanced outlet partnerships offset by a decline in Orijin due to represents more than 50% of the market and activation supported by brand increased competition in the bitters volume.
Satzenbrau with net sales up 61% ambassadors.
Nigeria was up 16% as the beer and the Dubic Malt launch, more than In Africa Regional Markets, net sales market continues to shift towards the offset the decline in Guinness, Malta grew 5% reflecting strong growth in value segment with Satzenbrau, up 61%, Guinness and Harp.
Strong mainstream Ethiopia, and a solid contribution by capitalising on the trend.
South Africa spirits growth was driven by increased Ghana and Cameroon.
These markets was up 7%, due to growth of Smirnoff support and the successful launch of continued to benefit from the enhanced 1818.
Beer performance in the region brands including McDowells in the first route to consumer delivering improved with net sales up 3%, was driven by half of the year, which is now produced distribution, availability and execution.
Senator and Satzenbrau, partially offset locally at Benin.
Scotch net sales were up by Guinness down 5% and Tusker down In Ethiopia, net sales increased 28% driven strong double digit, driven by Johnnie 10%.
Mainstream spirits showed strong by Meta, up 23%, following the relaunch Walker increased investment.
Scotch was up 5% and last year.
Spirits growth was fuelled by drink was down 15%, driven by the highly ingrowth across all markets except Johnnie Walker strong double digit growth competitive category affecting Orijin, South Africa, driven by Johnnie Walker driven by the new distributor model.
partly offset by strong performance in supported by the Keep Walking Ghana net sales increased 4%.
Growth in Smirnoff Double Black and Guarana and campaign.
Operating margin increased beer offset a decline in spirits driven by Smirnoff Ice.
The recent launch of Orijin 60bps supported by productivity savings Orijin Bitters which lapped its launch.
Zero is extending reach into the in supply, zero based budgeting on Guinness net sales were up 15% and non-alcoholic drinks market.
indirect spend and organisation Malta Guinness, up 14% both benefiting South Africa net sales grew 7% driven effectiveness benefits, partially offset by from the First Beer On Us campaign, by growth in mainstream spirits, up 15%, an increase in marketing spend and offsetting declines in other beer brands, led by strong growth of Smirnoff 1818 route to consumerinvestments.
which was partially offset by Guinness decline and scotch down 1% with volume Reported Organic Reported down 6% following the negative category Organic volume volume net sales net sales trend and impacted by price increases movement movement movement movement Markets: % % % % across the portfolio.
Africa 3 3 5 11 Marketing was up 5% in the region.
In Africa Regional Markets investment East Africa 5 5 16 was focused behind the activation of Africa Regional Markets 5 18 Guinness campaigns and Johnnie Walker Nigeria 10 10 16 16 Step up across all markets, and in South Africa 1 2 7 40 Ethiopia on the Meta relaunch.
South i Spirits 9 7 13 24 Africa investment was behind Johnnie Beer 1 1 3 4 Walker and Bells to revitalize the scotch Ready to drink 10 3 3 14 category with activations at scale through liquid on lips.
In Nigeria investment Organic Reported remained flat, with special focus on Organic volume net sales net sales ii movement movement movement Satzenbrau and mainstream spirits i Global giants and local stars : % % % launches.
East Africa investment was Guinness 5 5 7 focused on Johnnie Walker, while Johnnie Walker 1 3 5 efficiencies on Tusker were reinvested Smirnoff 4 22 47 in mainstream spirits.
Other beer: Malta Guinness 12 2 11 Tusker 7 10 5 10 14 32 Senator Satzenbrau 22 61 18 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Organic equals reported volume movement except for Johnnie Walker 10 % which was impacted by the reclassification of Algeria and Morocco to the Europe, Russia and Turkey region.
34 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business reviews: Latin America and Caribbean Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Latin America % % % andCaribbean In Latin America and Caribbean the strategic priority is continued leadership in scotch, while broadening our category range through vodka, rum, liqueurs and i PUB PEBAC Ready to drink Spirits Value Super premium Mexico Other Beer Standard Ultra premium local spirits.
We continue to invest principally CCA Premium in routes to market and in the Travel Retail Andean breadth and depth of our portfolio i excluding RTDs of leading brands.
We are also Acquisitions Organic Reported Key financials Reclassifii enhancing our supply structure 2016 Exchange and disposals movement 2017 movement cation million million million million million % million to enable the business to provide Net sales 863 131 13 26 89 1,044 21 both the emerging middle class Marketing 167 22 1 2 7 195 17 and an increasing number of Operating profit before exceptional wealthy consumers with the items 199 35 11 5 32 250 26 premium brands they aspire to.
Exceptional ii In this regions changing operating items 118 Operating profit 81 250 209 regulatory landscape, our i Reclassification comprise changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the presence is supported by our geographical regions.
reputation as a trusted and respected business, based on our expanded our co-packer network across the In most of CCA and Argentina we partner stance on responsible drinking, with distributors in each country who are region.
In 2015 we acquired the remaining and community development 50% equity interest in Tequila Don Julio in responsible for the execution of the sales programmes.
Mexico, which resulted in full ownership of and marketing programmes.
the brand and its production facilities.
In Sustainability and responsibility 2012 we acquired Ypica in Brazil, including Our markets its cachaa production site, and in 2011 we Diageo has long been known in the region Our Latin America and Caribbean LAC acquired a controlling interest in Anejos fide for our flagship community re-investment business comprises five markets: PUB Altura Guatemala which produces Zacapa.
programme, Learning for Life, and our overall Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil, Mexico, CCA approach to developing an industry that We also have partnerships with 14 brewers Central America and Caribbean, Andean and 10 co-packing partners.
brings economic and social value to society.
Colombia and Venezuela and PEBAC Peru, Our commercial and brand teams have been Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina and Chile.
Route to consumer working to increase the scale and impact of Learning for Life, to deliver more for our We drive an efficient route to consumer Supply operations through differentiated models tailored to communities, partners, customers and our The majority of brands sold in the region are each markets size and needs.
In Mexico, for example, Project manufactured by our International Supply Peru our in-market companies sell directly to Entrepreneur creates new businesses, and Centre in Europe.
In recent years, we have retailers and wholesalers.
In Brazil, we has resulted in around 12,000 new jobs in acquired a number of supply operations and distribute the majority of Ypica through Mexico City.
a reseller network in Cear state, and serve Key issues we address in the region are the rest of the country and brands via underage drinking and drink driving.
For distributors, wholesalers, and multiple retail example, we support schemes with retailers groups.
In Andean we partner with in Brazil, Mexico and Colombia to ensure geographically exclusive distributors, but they check for identification to prevent in Colombia a subsidiary sells to the key underage sales.
In the Dominican Republic, accounts directly.
In Chile we also serve we worked with industry partners to support retailers directly, while the rest of the legislation to establish a maximum blood channels are covered by a single distributor.
Strategic report Business reviews: Latin America and Caribbean DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 Latin America and Caribbean delivered of primary scotch.
In cachaa, Ypica net expansion and implementation of 2% growth in volume and 9% growth in sales grew 5% with Ypica Ouro Gold commercial standards.
Growth in net sales, with strong performance from variant growing double digit driven by Colombia was across all categories except Mexico, Andean and PEBAC.
Mexico net strong in store execution and commercial vodka with scotch up 23% driven by sales were up 20% driven by scotch and incentives.
Paraguay and Uruguay Buchanans and Johnnie Walker strong double digit growth from Don continued to grow due to improved continuing to grow our leadership Julio.
Andean performance was driven by performance in the export channels.
Net position in the category.
In Venezuela Colombia with net sales growth of 20%.
sales for reserve brands in PUB continued volume decreased 27% as volatility in Both Andean and PEBAC growth was their strong performance with 18% the market continued.
Although net mainly driven by scotch.
PUB grew net growth driven by Ketel One vodka and sales grew significantly faster, with sales 4% as the rate of decline in Brazil Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve.
price increases in the high inflation slowed due to lapping the impact of prior environment, the business remains small In Mexico, net sales increased 20% driven year tax increases, and performance with net sales of approximately 10m.
by strong performance across all improvement in Uruguay and Paraguay.
categories except ready to drink and PEBAC Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Across the region, scotch net sales grew vodka.
Scotch continues to be a key Argentina and Chile delivered net 12% and a decline in vodka was offset by category driver with net sales growth for sales growth of 13%, mainly driven by growth in tequila, Baileys and rum.
Johnnie Walker at 16% and Buchanans at Chile and Argentina.
Growth in Chile was Operating margin for the region 14%.
In primary scotch, Black & White net driven by scotch.
Argentinas growth increased 111bps benefiting from sales grew double digit.
Reserve grew net was driven by a route to market change, product mix in Mexico and Colombia, sales 33% driven by Don Julio which grew implemented in F16.
productivity led marketing efficiencies 42% taking 2pps of share.
Net sales also Marketing increased by 4%, and and overhead savings through both grew in rum, Baileys and gin.
benefited from procurement savings indirect spend and organisational In CCA Central America and resulting in an underlying investment effectiveness programmes.
Investment on scotch was The domestic markets grew net sales spread across price points with support Key highlights 3% driven by scotch, Smirnoff ready to focused behind Johnnie Walker, drink and Guinness.
Export channels net Buchanans and Black & White.
In PUB Paraguay, Uruguay and sales declined 9% as market conditions Brazil, net sales grew 4%.
In Brazil, remained challenging given the the decline in net sales slowed as continued currency weakness against performance lapped the impact from the the US dollar.
Net sales declined in vodka and ready to drink, Andean Colombia and Venezuela which offset the 4% growth in scotch, continued strong growth with net sales where Black & White grew 28% up 21%.
Colombia net sales increased gaining 11 percentage points share 20% driven by route to consumer Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales movement movement movement movement Markets: % % % % Latin America and Caribbean 2 2 9 21 PUB 3 3 4 38 Mexico 16 16 20 27 CCA 4 10 1 1 Andean 11 11 21 39 PEBAC 43 46 13 18 i Spirits 3 4 12 27 Beer 1 29 17 36 Ready to drink 16 17 3 20 Organic Reported Organic volume net sales net sales ii movement movement movement i Global giants and local stars : % % % Johnnie Walker 2 11 23 Buchanans 19 23 32 Smirnoff 2 10 10 Old Parr 1 3 20 Baileys 8 15 28 Ypica 1 5 41 Black & White 46 21 40 i Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
ii Organic equals reported volume movement except for Smirnoff 4% and Baileys 9% due to acquisitions and disposals.
36 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Business reviews: Asia Pacific Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points Asia Pacific % % % Our strategy in Asia Pacific, which encompasses both developed and emerging markets, is to operate across categories in international spirits, local spirits, ready to drink formats and beer.
We focus on the i India North Asia Ready to drink highest growth categories and Spirits Value Super premium Travel Retail Asia Greater China Beer O ther Standard Ultra premium consumer opportunities, driving and Middle East Australia Premium South East Asia continued development of super i excluding RTDs and ultra premium scotch, and leveraging the emerging middle Key financials Acquisitions Organic Reported class opportunity through a Reclassifii 2016 Exchange and disposals movement 2017 movement cation million million million million million % combination of organic growth million Net sales 2,076 346 30 43 70 2,419 17 and selective acquisitions.
Marketing 301 47 4 1 343 14 Operating profit Our markets before exceptional Asia Pacific comprises India, Greater China items 395 85 11 1 19 487 23 China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, Exceptional Australia including New Zealand, South ii operating items 49 9 East Asia Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, Operating profit 346 478 38 Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, i Reclassification comprises changes to a reallocation of the results of the Travel Retail operations to the Laos, Myanmar, Nepal and Sri Lanka, North geographical regions and the results of Lebanon, other Middle Eastern countries which were formerly reported Asia Korea and Japan and Travel Retail Asia in the Asia Pacific geographical region now being included in Europe, Russia and Turkey.
ii For further details of exceptional operating items see pages 110 and 111. and Middle East.
In Thailand, Malaysia and serviced through a dedicated Diageo sales We have distilleries at Chengdu, in China and marketing organisation.
In the Middle Singapore, we have joint venture arrangements that produce Chinese white spirit and in with Mot Hennessy, sharing administrative East, we sell our products through thirdBundaberg, Australia that produce rum.
Diageo operates wholly party distributors.
United Spirits Limited USL operates owned subsidiaries in the Philippines and 23 owned manufacturing units in India and Sustainability and responsibility Vietnam.
In Vietnam we own a 45.56% equity Nepal and leases one manufacturing facility stake in Hanoi Liquor Joint Stock Company.
We have spent time re-aligning our in India.
USL and Diageo brands are also In Indonesia, Guinness is brewed by, and programmes based on material issues to our produced under licence by third-parties in distributed through, third party arrangements.
business and our stakeholders, such that they 36 manufacturing units in India.
In addition, In Greater China the majority of our better support our commercial agenda and we have bottling plants in Korea, Thailand, brands are now sold through our wholly our relationships in the many and varied Indonesia and Australia with ready to drink owned subsidiary.
Some brands are markets that make up this region.
distributed through a joint venture moving our efforts towards programmes arrangement with Mot Hennessy.
In focused where we source, make and sell.
Route to consumer addition, we are the sole distributor of Shui For example, we have developed In South East Asia, spirits and beer are sold Jing Fang, a super premium Chinese white community water programmes in India through a combination of Diageo companies, spirit, through our controlling 39.71% equity around our production sites, reducing the joint venture arrangements, and third party stake in a listed company.
Diageo operates amount we use while ensuring safe drinking a wholly owned subsidiary in Taiwan.
Our Model In India, we manufacture, market and sell Villages programme is also tackling illicit Indian whisky, rum, brandy and other spirits alcohol and heavy episodic drinking.
We are through our 54.78% shareholding in USL.
working with local NGOs and communities to Diageo also sells its own brands through USL.
support more balanced lifestyles and In Australia, we manufacture, market and with womens groups to support their sell the Diageo products and in New Zealand empowerment.
we operate through third party distributors.
To address local concerns we focus on In North Asia, we have our own preventing underage drinking, and this year distribution company in South Korea, whilst launched Smashed, our theatre education in Japan, the majority of sales are through programme, in many countries including China, joint venture agreements with Mot Taiwan and Indonesia.
We are also continuing Hennessy and Kirin.
to focus on preventing heavy drinking among Airport shops and airline operators are university students in Korea and Australia.
Strategic report Business reviews: Asia Pacific DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 Key highlights Asia Pacific net sales grew 3% with and innovations including blenders batch strong growth in Greater China and solid select cask and red rye finish contributed India net sales were up 2% despite the performance in Australia and South East to Johnnie Walker net sales growth of 4%.
impact of demonetisation and the recent Asia.
This was partly offset by the Reserve was up 9%.
Whilst the ready to Supreme Court ruling prohibiting the continued contraction of the scotch drink category remains challenging, sale of alcohol in certain outlets near category in Korea which led to a further innovation launches including Bundaberg highways.
Prestige and above grew 7% decline in net sales and there was also Lazy Bear, Smirnoff Pure and Pimms as McDowells No.
1 and Signature weakness in travel retail in the region.
Premixes, delivered significant net sales continued to benefit from their InGreater China, net sales grew 25% as for the business through addressing renovation, with net sales growth of 9% aresult of strong momentum in Chinese consumer demand for low tempo and 31%, respectively.
Scotch grew net white spirits and scotch performance, up refreshing drinks.
sales 6% driven by Johnnie Walker and 5%.
The business in India grew net sales South East Asia net sales grew 3% Black & White.
Popular brands declined by 2%, largely driven by IMFL whisky 5% particularly within the rum category.
with growth in the Philippines and Key andscotch, despite the impact of Accounts offsetting the declines in The focus on route to consumer demonetisation and the Supreme Court Thailand and Indonesia.
In the Philippines continues with perfect stores now ruling banning sales in certain outlets the focus on route to consumer is driving representing over a third of total business.
South East Asia net sales Distribution and share of shelf have significant increases in distribution in the grew 3% and Australia net sales also modern trade and secondary outlets, grown, driving net sales growth and grew 3% driven by scotch and ready to while also improving execution standards share on key scotch brands.
The Keep Walking improved 20bps benefiting from mix, Greater China net sales were up 25%.
Philippines campaign launch during the driven by strong growth from reserve Chinese white spirits grew 69%, driven by first half supported by occasion-driven brands, overhead efficiency benefits route to consumer initiatives and brand activation during the second half led to from the productivity programme equity investment.
Scotch net sales double digit growth for Johnnie Walker.
acrossall markets, and in India, margin growth was up 5% driven by Johnnie Scotch grew net sales 7% driven by Key improvement was supported in Walker, The Singleton and other malts.
Accounts, which continues to lap a period particular by significant supply Australia net sales increased 3% driven of planned inventory reduction, and the efficiencies.
These benefits were partially by growth in scotch.
The relaunch of the Philippines.
The mourning period in offset by lapping the profit on the sale of Johnnie Walker Keep Walking campaign United Breweries shares in the prior year.
Thailand, following the death of the king, impacted performance with net sales Reported Organic Reported Organic volume volume net sales net sales down 10% following the closure of i movement movement movement movement on-trade outlets for varying periods over Markets: % % % % the one year formal mourning period.
In Asia Pacific 1 6 3 17 Indonesia, total beer net sales declined India 2 7 2 14 5% impacted by structural trade changes.
Greater China 25 25 25 45 Guinness decline was mitigated by the Australia 3 25 launch of Ginseng under the Guinness South East Asia 7 13 3 15 Zero brand.
North Asia 11 11 3 18 In North Asia, net sales declined 3%.
Travel Retail Asia and Middle East 14 17 13 15 In Korea net sales declined 7% as Windsor ii Spirits 1 7 4 16 continued to be impacted by the iii Beer 1 46 17 contraction of the traditional on-trade, Ready to drink 20 increased competition and shifts to lower alcohol by volume local whisky segments.
Organic Reported Organic volume net sales net sales This was partially offset by net sales iv movement movement movement ii growth of 41% for W Ice by Windsor, Global giants and local stars : % % % a low alcohol variant and by Guinness as Johnnie Walker 3 1 7 the international beer category grows.
McDowell's 1 1 13 Japan grew net sales 6% driven by scotch Windsor 11 12 5 with net sales growth of 21% offsetting Smirnoff 1 1 17 the decline in ready to drink.
Guinness 1 18 Bundaberg 4 21 Travel Retail Asia and Middle East v Shui Jing Fang 66 65 81 continued to decline net sales at 13% i Difference between organic and reported volume for Asia Pacific is driven by the move to the franchise model with lower spend by travellers and for some popular segment brands in India.
currency volatility impacting ii Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
iii Following a review of groups reporting of volume an adjustment was made to include Malaysia and Singapore contract brew volume in the reported beer figures which increased the reported volume in Asia Pacific by Marketing investment remained broadly 0.3 million equivalent cases 2016 0.4 million equivalent cases.
flat with marketing efficiencies across the iv Organic equals reported volume movement except for Johnnie Walker 2 %, Smirnoff 2 % and McDowells 7 % which were impacted by the reclassification of Lebanon and other Middle East countries to the Europe, Russia and region offset by up-weighted investment Turkey region and the move from an owned to a franchise model in India.
v Organic growth figures represent total Chinese white spirits of which Shui Jing Fang is the predominant brand.
