Strategic Report Business Review accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not Business Model be taken out if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to Business and Status over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure may, on The Company is an investment company within the meaning of occasions, be below 100% of shareholders funds.
section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business as an investment trust.
Investment trusts are UK public listed Performance companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread performance measures to assess the Companys success in risk.
The Company has a fixed share capital although, subject to achieving its objectives.
shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own Key Performance Indicators shares or issue shares.
The price of the Companys shares is determined, like other listed shares, by supply and demand.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company over time are The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM established industry measures and are as follows: Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total return basis: Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to comply with the ongoing requirements of section 1158 of the the movement in the share price on a total return basis: Corporation Tax Act 2010. the discount: and The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the ongoing charges.
purposes of the EU Alternative Fund Managers Directive.
An explanation of these measures can be found in the Glossary of Objective and Policy Terms on page 56.
The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs The Companys objective is to invest globally to achieve capital are shown on pages 12 to 14. growth.
This takes priority over income and dividends.
In addition to the above, the Board also has regard to the total Monks seeks to meet its objective by investing principally in a return of the Companys principal comparative index FTSE World portfolio of global quoted equities.
Equities are selected for their Index in sterling terms and considers the performance of inclusion within the portfolio solely on the basis of the strength of comparable companies.
Principal Risks There are no limits to geographical or sector exposures, but these As explained on pages 23 and 24 there is an ongoing process for are reported to, and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the that adequate diversification is achieved.
The number of holdings Company.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of in equities typically ranges from 70 to 200.
At the financial year the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would end, the portfolio contained 109 equity holdings.
A portfolio threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or review by the Managers is given on pages 4 to 8 and the liquidity.
A description of these risks and how they are being investments held at the year end are listed on pages 9 to 11. managed or mitigated is set out below.
Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended Financial Risk the Companys assets consist mainly of listed including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum securities and its principal financial risks are therefore market permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An quoted equities may be purchased from time to time including explanation of those risks and how they are managed is fixed interest holdings, unquoted securities and derivatives.
The contained in note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 45 to Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio 49.
To mitigate this risk, the composition and diversification of the management including reducing, transferring or eliminating portfolio by geography, industry, growth category, holding size investment risk in its investments and protection against currency and thematic risk category are considered at each Board meeting risk and to achieve capital growth.
along with sales and purchases of investments.
Individual While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring investments are discussed with the Managers together with their performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index general views on the various investment markets and sectors.
A when constructing the portfolio: the portfolio may, therefore, differ strategy meeting is held annually.
substantially from that of the index.
A long-term view is taken and Investment Strategy Risk pursuing an investment strategy to there may be periods when the net asset value per share declines fulfil the Companys objective which the market perceives to be both in absolute terms and relative to the comparative index.
unattractive or inappropriate, or the ineffective implementation of Payment of dividends is secondary to achieving capital growth.
an attractive or appropriate strategy, may lead to reduced returns The shares are not considered to be a suitable investment for for shareholders and, as a result, a decreased demand for the those seeking a regular or rising income.
This may lead to the Companys shares Borrowings are invested in equities and other asset classes when trading at a widening discount to their Net Asset Value.
To this is considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
mitigate this risk, the Board regularly reviews and monitors: the Gearing levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by Companys objective and investment policy and strategy: the the Board and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted The Monks Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report investment portfolio and its performance: the level of discount Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for premium to Net Asset Value at which the shares trade: and investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any movements in the share register.
borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and investments to repay borrowings.
The Company can also make regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment trust use of derivative contracts.
To mitigate this risk all borrowings companies, the UKLA Listing rules and the Companies Act could require the prior approval of the Board and leverage levels are lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains, discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial Covenant levels are monitored regularly.
The majority of the penalties or a qualified audit report.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Companys investments are in quoted securities that are readily Giffords Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance realisable.
Further information on leverage can be found on Departments provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on page 56.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the Viability Statement Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to Having regard to provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in September recognised.
Shareholder documents and announcements, 2014, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company including the Companys published Interim and Annual Report over a three year period.
The Directors believe this period to be and Financial Statements, are subject to stringent review appropriate as, in the absence of any adverse change to the processes and procedures are in place to ensure adherence to regulatory environment and the favourable tax treatment afforded the Transparency Directive and the Market Abuse Directive with to UK investment trusts, it is a period over which they do not reference to inside information.
expect there to be any significant change to the current principal Custody and Depositary Risk safe custody of the Companys risks and to the adequacy of the mitigating controls in place.
The assets may be compromised through control failures by the Directors do not envisage any change in strategy or objectives or Depositary, including cyber hacking.
To mitigate this risk, the any events that would prevent the Company from continuing to Board receives six monthly reports from the Depositary confirming operate over that period.
safe custody of the Companys assets held by the Custodian.
In making this assessment the Directors have taken into account Cash and portfolio holdings are independently reconciled to the the Companys current position and have conducted a robust Custodians records by the Managers.
The Custodians audited assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties as internal controls reports are reviewed by Baillie Giffords Internal detailed on pages 15 and 16, in particular the impact of market Audit Department and a summary of the key points is reported to risk where a significant fall in global equity markets would the Audit Committee and any concerns investigated.
In addition, adversely impact the value of the investment portfolio.
The the existence of assets is subject to annual external audit.
Directors have also considered the Companys investment Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords systems or those of objective and policy, the level of demand for the Companys other third party service providers could lead to an inability to shares, the nature of its assets, its liabilities and projected income provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation and expenditure.
The vast majority of the Companys investments of assets.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Gifford has a comprehensive are readily realisable and can be sold to meet its liabilities as they business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of fall due, the main liabilities currently being the debenture stock the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
repayable in 2023 and short-term bank borrowings.
In addition, The Board reviews Baillie Giffords Report on Internal Controls and substantially all of the essential services required by the Company the reports by other third party providers are reviewed by Baillie are outsourced to third party service providers: this allows key Gifford on behalf of the Board.
service providers to be replaced at relatively short notice where necessary.
Discount Risk the discount at which the Companys shares trade relative to its Net Asset Value can change.
The risk of a Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable widening discount is that it may undermine investor confidence in expectation that the Company will be able to continue in the Company.
To manage this risk, the Board monitors the level of operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over at least the discount at which the shares trade and the Company has next three years.
authority to buy back its existing shares when deemed by the Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues Board to be in the best interests of the Company and its The Board recognises the requirement to provide information shareholders.
about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the Political Risk political change in areas in which the Company Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive invests or may invest may increasingly have practical and all its functions are outsourced, there are no disclosures to be consequences for the Company.
To mitigate this risk, made in respect of employees, human rights and community developments are closely monitored and considered by the issues.
16 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Gender Representation The Board comprises seven Directors, six male and one female.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 22.
Environmental, Social and Governance Policy Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 24.
The Company considers that it does not fall within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged to make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any event, the Company considers its supply chains to be of low risk as its suppliers are typically professional advisers.
A statement by the Managers under the Act has been published on the Managers website at www.
The Strategic Report which includes pages 2 to 17 was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 27 June 2017.
JGD Ferguson Chairman The Monks Investment Trust PLC 17
