First Students revenue was at in local currency at $2,323.3m 2016: $2,332.7m, withrevenue increases from the third year ofour contract pricing strategy, moderate organic growth and additional operating days compared to the prior year offset by contracts not renewed and more days lost to bad weather than the prior year.
Adjusted operating profit in local currency increased by 34.5% to $222.0m 2016: $165.0m resulting in an adjusted operating margin of 9.6% 2016: 7.1%.
The 250 basis point increase in adjusted operating margin benefited from improved contract portfolio pricing net of ination and lost business and our cost efficiency programme, as well as the increase in operating days noted above and areduction in fuel costs due to our hedging prole.
It was partially offset by more days lost to weather than the prior year and a modest increase in employee costs associated with continued driver shortage challenges in parts of the US.
In reported currency, adjusted operating profit increased by 52.0% to 171.1m 2016: 112.6m.
Business review First Student Our objective is to maintain our leadership position in the industry 470 operating locations across US and Canada whilecontinuing to enhance our productivity and the quality of Focused and disciplined bidding servicefor our customers.
The summer 2016 bid season represented the third year of our pricing strategy to focus only on retaining or bidding for contracts at prices that reect an appropriate return on the capital we invest.
We achieved an average price increase on at risk contracts of 7.3%, an increase of 200 basis points on the prior year which in part reected the driver cost ination challenges we and the rest of the industry areexperiencing.
About one third of our bus portfolio was due for renewal in the 2016 bid season, and we retained 80% of at risk buses in line with our budget, or 93% across our total portfolio.
Pricing across the market continues to be rmer, though some smaller local operators continue to bid aggressively to retain Dennis Maple business, and school boards remain focused President, First Student on strong execution and value for money.
We continue to see modest net organic growth or conversions from in-house to private provision.
More than 75% of our overall bus eet of 2017 2016 44,000 at the end of the year are operated under contracts awarded in the last three Revenue $2,323.3m $2,332.7m years which reect our strategy to operate asmaller but higher-returning bus eet.
Adjusted operating profit $222.0m $165.0m Adjusted operating margin 9.6% 7.1% Number of employees 50,500 57,000 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 2017 Approximate revenue by type Our strengths Contract 91% School and third party charter 9% 5m student journeys a day on 44,000 yellow school buses Clear market leader bigger than next four competitors combined scale economies Continuous improvement in in areas such as vehicle and parts operating and financial performance procurement, insurance, eet management, technology development First Student continued to deliver cost Responsible partnerships with efficiencies, including from a simplication ourcustomers and communities Differentiated offering safety programme, ofour regional management and central on-bus technology, strong customer We are entrusted with the safety and security services structure at the start of the year, and relationships and satisfaction scores of millions of children every day, and we take from changes to our engineering practices that responsibility extremely seriously.
We Margin enhancement plan delivering using the expertise of First Transits vehicle maintained our strong safety track record through disciplined contract portfolio maintenance services segment.
Additional compared with industry benchmarks and management, capital discipline and cost efficiencies were delivered through relentless continue to invest to improve our performance.
efficiency plans focus on best practice sharing and In the year we were delighted that our standardised processes across the division, Repositioning business to sustainably customer service scores improved further and continuing to use real-time data and deliver profitable growth and returns from from their already high levels.
As part of our enhanced training to embed behaviour market leadership in the long term.
commitment to support our communities, change at the local depot level.
During the weinvested in an additional 120 alternative year, these management initiatives have fuelbuses, taking our eet to more than 1,800 delivered recurring cost savings of $26m, vehicles, which is one of the largest such eets bringing the total delivered over the last three in North America.
Future priorities These cost improvements have been delivered In the 2017 bid season which is now under despite the significant task of responding to way and beyond, we will continue to the ongoing challenge of recruiting and emphasise the overall value of our services retaining drivers in some locations, as a result interms of the quality of driver training, of the strength of the US employment market.
maintenance and safety standards, technology We continued to improve our recruitment capability and customer satisfaction as we processes and marketing, particularly ahead continue our pricing strategy to ensure our of the September start-up period, which contract portfolio returns reect the capital allowed the school year to get under way intensity of the services we provide.
Revenue from our non-school confident that our unique market position, charter bus offering, which benets our asset customer proposition and improving utilisation rates, was adversely impacted by operational efficiency put us in a strong netlost business and the driver availability position to start to grow our portfolio of challenges noted above, but increased by contracts in a disciplined way through approximately 4% on a per bus basis.
furtherorganic, conversion and tuck-in acquisition opportunities.
Prudent investment in our key assets We continue to invest in systems and Outlook processes that differentiate our offering and We are now executing the fourth bid season enhance our customer service levels and under our strategy to move to a smaller but safety performance.
During the year we higher-returning contract portfolio, and successfully trialled our FirstView smartphone therefore an increasing proportion of at risk app, which provides real-time bus location contracts have already been won under our FirstView bus tracking for parents and school boards.
As such, we expect the tracking app system can be deployed on our bus eets or average price increase achievable to moderate offered on a standalone basis to school and our contract retention rate to trend First Student launched FirstView, boards operating their own eets.
Although we upwards over time.
We continue to target asecure school bus tracking app, continued to make significant investments in incremental cost efficiencies across the during the year and will roll it out to new and refurbished buses during the year, division and expect to benefit modestly further locations during 2017 18. we also benefited from our systematic fromour fuel hedging prole.
As usual, First Designed for parents and tested approach to cascading buses around our Students operating results will be signicantly byparents, custom email or push operations, which is a significant competitive weighted to the second half because of notications inform users of any delays advantage of our scale: our average eet age theoverlay of our financial year with the reasons and estimated delay length, remained 7.3 years.
time and distance reminders of when abus will arrive atastop, and its arrival at school.
The appaims to improve communication with parents and carers, and increase transparency.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 First Transits revenue was $1,358.9m 2016: $1,303.4m, an increase of 4.4% in constant currency.
As expected, contract awards and organic growth in the rest of the division was partially offset by lower shuttle bus demand in the Canadian oil sands region compared with the prior year: divisional revenue excluding these activities increased by 5.6% in constant currency.
Adjusted operating profit in local currency was$95.2m 2016: $90.6m, representing anadjusted operating margin of 7.0% 2016: 7.0%, modestly ahead of our expectations atthe half year due to favourable execution incertain contracts during the second half.
Inreported currency, adjusted operating profit increased by 22.0% to 73.3m 2016: 60.1m.
Focused and disciplined bidding In the year, First Transit maintained its consistent track record of new business winsand high contract retention rates across abroad range of transport services and geographies.
In the year we were awarded 19new contracts, including important new business wins in our long-standing core markets such as a paratransit contract in Business review Cobb County, Georgia, and a vehicle services contract for Florida International University.
First Transit Wewere also awarded new contracts by PACE in Chicago and SEPTA in Philadelphia, both of which were extensions of existing With 60 years of experience in the relationships with these authorities.
Our shuttle business, which is the only sub-segment of North American transport contracting the division where we deploy significant capital, won contracts at Los Angeles airport space, we still have a substantial and in five other cities.
opportunity ahead of us, both internationally and in new service areas such as US commuter rail.
335 contracts, with average value of less than $5m Retaining existing clients is clearly as important as winning new business, and we renewed significant contracts for the Denver Regional Transportation District, TriMet in Portland, Eastern Contra Costa in California and COTA in Columbus, Ohio in the year.
Our retention Brad Thomas rate on at risk contracts was 82% during the President, First Transit year: whilst somewhat lower than our normal target range, this included the loss of two relatively large existing contracts which had become loss-making and on which we had bid significant price increases.
2017 2016 In the year we made further progress in Revenue $1,358.9m $1,303.4m applying our expertise to new geographies and services to secure additional sources Adjusted operating profit $95.2m $90.6m ofgrowth.
For example, we were recently awarded a small streetcar management Adjusted operating margin 7.0% 7.0% contract in El Paso, and we are very pleased Number of employees 19,500 19,500 with the performance to date of our first US 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 $5m Strategic report commuter rail contract, which was awarded 2017 tous in July 2016 by the Denton County Approximate revenue by type Transportation Authority in Texas, and our Our ongoing management of the CTfastrak Bus Rapid Transit BRT system in Connecticut.
strengths These contracts benefit from the expertise of Fixed route 39% colleagues in the Groups UK divisions, and Paratransit 30% give us important credentials with which to Shuttle 21% pursue similar opportunities in these growing Vehicle Services 10% markets in North America.
We are also looking Established credentials and track at international markets in a measured way, record First Transit is a market leader and during the year we have been exploring andhas a pedigree extending more growth opportunities beyond our recent than60years customer satisfaction score during the year.
entries into Panama and India.
Diverse segments and large volume We are also at the forefront of low emissions ofrelatively small contracts our vehicle technology, with almost one fifth of exceptional bidding and management ourfleet now operating using alternative expertise are well embedded fuelsources.
Industry-leading programmes Future priorities includingsafety and maintenance training First Transit has developed a diversified platform of sector expertise and exceptional Technology investment is management strength in North American deliveringefficiency gains and service We operate and manage transit markets through continuous investment enhancements forour customers 13,000vehicles and maintain in our people and technology, all of which will afurther 35,000 Our scale and breadth of support good margins and returns into the managementexpertise will support medium term.
We have grown our business futuregrowth, including in new services bylistening to what our customers want and Continuous improvement in andgeographies.
finding cost efficient ways to provide it.
We operating and financial performance continue to see opportunities for further Our technology infrastructure, management growth in our core markets, particularly in expertise and national service platform are shuttle and in vehicle services, increasingly significant barriers to entry.
Notwithstanding forcorporate as well as public clients.
this, sustaining First Transits margin in highly We expect adjacent markets where we have competitive markets requires continuous now established our credentials such as improvement in efficiency to provide best value lightrail, commuter rail and BRT will become service provision.
We also continue to develop increasingly significant for our business.
We our recruitment, retention and training systems will also continue to explore disciplined and and processes to ensure we maintain the low-risk opportunities to grow our geographic necessary technical and driver capability in coverage when our track record means we what remains a tight US employment market.
are well placed to deliver.
Prudent investment in our key assets We intend to remain at the forefront of In the majority of our contracts we operate technological change in our industry.
For ormanage services on behalf of our clients example, at the end of 2016 we commenced rather than providing vehicles, and our primary an autonomous vehicle pilot in conjunction capital investment is therefore into the systems with the Contra Costa Transportation Authority and processes needed to support efficient in California, and are exploring partnerships delivery.
During the year we completed the roll toprovide Americans with Disabilities out of our paperless engineering shop system, Act-compliant transportation for ridesharing and have made further progress in rolling out and paratransit passengers.
enhanced real-time location information to our customers and passengers.
These systems The complexity and breadth of transport also provide detailed performance and A-train US commuter services continues to evolve, but our focus analytics information to our management and remains on bringing the skills and capability rail contract engineering teams, allowing us to enhance todeliver an efficient and effective service ourproductivity and efficiency.
First Transits initial US commuter forour customers.
railcontract, the Denton County Responsible partnerships with Outlook Transportation Authority A-train, began ourcustomers and communities We remain confident that our services in October 2016 and is already showing offeracompelling option for local authorities We are committed to offering the best signs of success.
The 21-mile regional andprivate customers to outsource valuepackage to our customers and the rail system connecting Denton and theirincreasingly complex transportation communities we serve, which means our Dallas Counties in the state of Texas, management needs.
We will continue professionalism, technical and operational has received the ISO 9001:2015 Quality tobidfor contracts offering good margins expertise and safety standards are as Management System certification, withmodest capital investment, seeking to important as our cost effectiveness in winning providing guidance and tools for replenish and grow our portfolio of contracts or retaining business.
We have completed organisations that want to ensure their both within our core markets and in new theroll out of our safety behavioural change products and services consistently service areas and geographies.
programme, which has had a positive impact meet customers requirements and on our safety performance, and we were thatquality is consistently delivered.
pleased to have increased our already strong FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Greyhounds revenue was $894.0m or 684.7m 2016: $914.0m or 605.1m for the year.
Like-for-like revenue decreased by 1.7% for the year as a whole, reecting a decrease of 3.9% inthe first half and an increase of 0.8% in the second.
Passenger demand throughout the intercity coach industry is adversely affected bythe increased competitiveness of both passenger cars and low-cost airlines when fuelprices reduce year-on-year, as experienced in the first half of our 2017 financial year.
Our point-to-point Greyhound Express revenue increased by 1.3%, with both Express and traditional Greyhound experiencing greater resilience over shorter haul up to 450 miles distances than long haul.
4,000 destinations used in more than 55,000 journey combinations monthly across NorthAmerica Business review Adjusted operating profit was $55.2m 2016: $54.4m, or an adjusted operating margin of Greyhound 6.2% 2016: 6.0%.
We have continued to ex mileage operated in response to demand trends, resulting in modest improvements We are totally transforming our torevenue per mile, supplemented by our transition to one-way ticket pricing in July 2016 customers experience of Greyhound and our other business model developments.
In reported currency, adjusted operating profit while giving ourselves the tools to increased by 20.0% to 42.6m 2016: 35.5m.
takefull advantage of our unique Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions national network and iconic brand.
Ourtransformation of Greyhounds customer facing systems in recent years now allows us to deploy airline-style yield management and real-time pricing algorithms throughout the network, and we are developing our customer relationship management systems and loyalty schemes to deepen our relationship with our customers.
The majority of our customers now buy tickets online or via our new smartphone apps, and our eet offers modern buses withamenities such as free Wi-Fi, guaranteed seating and better legroom than the low-cost airlines.
In addition, we continue to promote our point-to-point Greyhound Express andBoltBus brands, which offer higher Dave Leach density timetables between popular city President, Greyhound pairdestinations.
In the year we have implemented more robustpunctuality processes and systems, signicantly improving on-time departure 2017 2016 performance.
We have upgraded our terminal Revenue $894.0m $914.0m environments in terms of cleanliness and security, simplied our baggage processes, Adjusted operating profit $55.2m $54.4m and regularly review our sites for opportunities to move to intermodal transport hubs or new Adjusted operating margin 6.2% 6.0% facilities tailored to our needs.
We continue to make upgrades to our web offerings we now Number of employees 6,500 7,000 offer one-click purchasing capabilities on our 18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report website and improvements to our mobile apps 2017 have resulted in us becoming one of the top Approximate revenue by type rated apps in the travel industry.
Our strengths Passenger revenue 78% Package Express 8% Food service 2% Charter 1% Iconic brand synonymous with Other 11% longdistance coach travel Point-to-point service Greyhound Only national network of scheduled Express covers 1,000 city pair intercity coach services passenger Responsible partnerships with combinations in 135 markets feedfrom this network provides operating ourcustomers and communities leverage to point-to-point services Our service to our customers is becoming We are now in a better position than ever A business that is reconnecting more personalised and responsive, and we before to offer potential customers a withcustomers operating are increasingly focused on using customer competitively priced, comfortable journey arefreshedfleetwith transformed feedback scoring, benchmarking and totheir destination without the hassle of long systemstoconnect withour passengers complaints data to diagnose common airport queues or driving themselves.
andrespondto their needs painpoints and remove them.
We have Continuous improvement in alsoinvested considerable effort in refreshing Range of brands and price points operating and financial performance oursafety culture, with encouraging totargetnew markets.
overallprogress in the year across our key Our financial performance is highly dependent passengerand employee safety metrics.
on matching our timetables to demand and maintaining tight control of operating costs.
Future priorities The transition of our business model to more Over recent years we have upgraded our sophisticated, digitally-enabled systems fleets, transformed our yield management, enhances our ability to do both.
In the pricing, ticketing and purchase options, and year, mileage operated across the division made major steps to improve our terminal decreased by 4.8%, with reductions experience.
While the benefits of these weightedto the first half.
changes have been offset somewhat by thepassenger demand challenges of a falling Our Canadian operations 15% of Greyhound fuel price environment, we are confident that revenue have remained particularly Greyhound is now in a strong position to take challenging, with the lower oil price directly full advantage of its unique brand and scale.
impacting on competitiveness compared with Our opportunity is to marry Greyhounds other modes but also affecting the health of unique nationwide network and iconic brand, the economy, particularly in western Canada.
the refreshed fleet, locations and technology Despite considerable regulatory and structural platforms we now have in place with a constraints, we continue to take action reinvigorated customer service ethos, and including reducing mileage further but thereby attract and retain new passengers to Greyhound Canada remained loss-making.
We will also continue to deliver on We continue to review our property portfolio the opportunities available to us in the Mexican for opportunities to strengthen the passenger coach market.
experience, which resulted in decisions to sell Outlook sites in Reno, Barrie and El Paso.
We also With our pricing and yield management completed the sale of a terminal in San Jose, algorithms continuing to increase in scope and Improved information resulting in a gain on sale of 21.6m in the effectiveness, and assuming a somewhat less year, which has been reported separately.
delivered through new volatile oil price environment in the near term Prudent investment in our key assets systems compared with the last three years, we are In the year we have continued to invest in our confident that Greyhound can return to growth Greyhound have transformed customer business systems to improve the customer in the year ahead.
We will continue to focus facing technology as well as taking experience, with expenditure on the dynamic onmatching our timetables to demand, with steps to improve the passenger pricing systems, website and customer the objective of maximising the considerable experience.
On-time departure relationship management systems.
However operating leverage in the business from performance has improved, in part ourinvestment focus has increasingly moved additional passenger volumes, in order thanks to GPS-based tracking, and we toenhancing employee training, in particular toenhance divisional margin.
also launched a real-time bus tracker on bybuilding customer feedback into our priority our Greyhound website and mobile app.
During the year we retired more This ensures customers have accurate buses from the fleet than we replaced, modestly information at their fingertips.
During reducing the average age of our 1,600 bus their journey our customers have told fleetto 9.9 years.
Our continued investment in usthat they prefer information delivered growing our services in the Mexican domestic through a variety of mediums and market has been successful in the year, and we weare addressing this by introducing will continue to expand in this market in future.
digital signage in terminals and live text message notifications and updates.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 First Bus reported revenue of 861.7m 2016: 870.9m for the year.
Although the like-for-like passenger revenue trend improved through the year, it was still negative for three quarters, ending 0.6% lower overall.
Market conditions for the industry remain challenged by muted high street footfall, worsening congestion in several localities, and some evidence of lower fuel prices encouraging car use, as well as general macroeconomic uncertainty in the UK.
Revenue trends show wide variation across the division, with some markets especially in the South and Wales achieving good growth while others have been more challenged.
Overall like-for-like commercial passenger volumes increased by 0.4%, while concessionary volumes decreased by 2.2%.
Our contract andtendered revenue decreased by 3.0% as a result of reduced spending by local authorities on supported services.
We continue to take action in response to thechallenging growth environment by taking opportunities to merge or close certain depots and reducing overheads, delivering cost efficiencies of 14.2m in the year.
However these cost savings have not been sufficient tooffset lower volumes and cost ination.
Adjusted operating profit was 37.0m 2016: Business review 52.0m and adjusted operating margin was 4.3% 2016: 6.0%, of which 11.5m or 130bps First Bus is directly attributable to the adverse impact offoreign exchange movements on our purchases of US dollar-denominated fuel.
By focusing on the needs of our Inlight of the extent of the changes we have reported restructuring and reorganisation passengers and continuing to improve charges of 10.9m separately.
our operational efficiency, we are Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions enhancing our value to the customers We continue to adjust our networks, fares and and the local communities we serve.
commercial offering in response to customer needs.
We have increased our focus on improved convenience and a simpler offering for passengers, with several initiatives includingfare discounts designed to increase take-up of mobile and other cashless tickets, which also speeds boarding times.
We have trialled contactless ticketing using bank cards in Bristol and are planning a wider roll out ofthis technology during 2017 and 2018.
Intheyear we have also stepped up the emphasis on customer service in our driver training programmes.
We have also focused on increasing our share of student markets across our networks through Giles Fearnley enhanced services, competitive fares and Managing Director, First Bus increased marketing, with particular success inYork, Swansea, Bristol and Bath.
We also reorganised our network serving Stansted Airport, successfully stimulating growth.
2017 2016 In the contract tender market, we were awarded contracts for Bristol Airport and Revenue 861.7m 870.9m itsenvirons, and for the Hinkley Point construction project through a joint venture.
Adjusted operating profit 37.0m 52.0m Our expertise in managing Park & Ride services was rewarded with wins including in Adjusted operating margin 4.3% 6.0% Bristol, Chelmsford and Leeds, and success Number of employees 17,000 17,500 indeveloping a solution for the local authority 20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report in Ipswich.
The Vantage BRT scheme in 2017 Manchester has exceeded expectations Approximate revenue by type since its April 2016 launch, carrying more Our than two million passengers inits first year.
Additional services have been added to meet strengths this demand.
Passenger revenue 66% Continuous improvement in Concessions 24% operating and financial performance Tenders 5% Other 5% We continue to take action to enhance our Strong position in the deregulated costefficiency for the long term.
In the year market outside London c. 20% weclosed Rotherham depot and transferred marketshare, serving 1.6m customers the operation of all services to other depots in adaywith a fleet of 6,000 buses objectives for bus services in their areas are South Yorkshire.
Shortly after the year end we Compelling positions in key markets best delivered through partnerships with consolidated from six to four depots serving operations in eight of the 11 most innovative and commercially incentivised bus the Greater Manchester area.
Following the denselypopulated cities in the UK operators.
We are delighted that the Bus release of certain restrictions by the Services Act recognises the importance of Competition and Markets Authority, we sold Repositioned to focus greater such partnerships and provides additional local networks in East Scotland to Lothian management expertise at the local tools for councils and operators to work Buses in summer 2016, and in March 2017 level, delivering tailored networks and together to deliver improvements for customers.
theGalashiels-based Borders network to faresforlocal needs WestCoast Motors.
This network had been In Leeds, one of our largest markets, we Proactive and responsible partner to adversely affected by the opening of the entered into a partnership with the City ourlocal authorities, experienced at working Borders Railway in 2015.
Councilaiming to double patronage by 2025, together to deliver passengers needs.
supported by a 173.5m public funding We continue to achieve savings from package over four years to develop new bus division-wide procurement, productivity and priorities, Park & Ride sites and passenger lean engineering projects, supplemented facilities, while First Bus is preparing to invest byongoing efforts to increase our fuel ina fully ultra-low emissions fleet there by efficiency through driver behaviour change 2020.
A partnership was also launched in and investment in more efficient buses.
September 2016 with Doncaster Council and Theseactions are also focused on supporting South Yorkshire Combined Authority, which improvements in service reliability and follows the successful launch of similar punctuality, which are fundamental to schemes in Sheffield and Rotherham.
working with Bristol City Council and the West In April 2017, we launched our upgraded bus of England Combined Authority to launch the app providing door-to-door journey planning, Metrobus network later in 2017.
We are excited showing all bus services and other modes to be delivering the services on these priority such as light rail with real-time location routes which will significantly improve the bus information and alerts for the bus stop of Improving accessibility offering and attract new users.
Our long-established mobile ticket app on our services Future priorities will be integrated with this app later in 2017.
Bus services will continue to play a critical role in Through embracing digital technology, we We work with a range of agencies any local transport strategy that recognises the arerapidly integrating our location tracking, including Disability Action Alliance, problems of congestion, air quality, parking and revenue collection and other back office theRNIB and Age UK to find ways issues of social exclusion.
Our objective is to systems to increase the availability of accurate ofimproving customer access to our continue to focus our investment and energy real-time data.
Our passengers will services, and are investing in new onlocal markets where these imperatives increasingly have access to more accurate vehicles which meet the latest DDA arerecognised and our customers and the information on their bus, and greater visibility regulations.
Following the additional communities we serve have the most to gain ofdisruption.
The availability of this information clarity from the Supreme Court ruling from our services.
Our focus remains on also increasingly enables us to plan and tailor regarding priority use of wheelchair enhancing our ability to deliver the efficient, our services more accurately.
spaces on board buses, we are costeffective and customer-focused services delivering further training to support Prudent investment in our key assets our stakeholders need.
ourfrontline employees in this area.
We continue to invest in our fleets in a Outlook disciplined way, and took delivery of 272 Although like-for-like passenger revenue vehicles in the year.
As a result of our fleet increased by 0.8% in the final quarter of the Responsible partnerships with investment programme our fleet is now fully year, industry conditions remain challenging ourcustomers and communities compliant with the Disability Discrimination Act and our focus therefore must remain on tailored More commuters rely on the national bus DDA, and like all our recent fleet purchases, cost efficiencies to raise our margin.
We will network than any other form of public these new additions meet the latest Euro VI continue to make changes to the shape and transport in the UK, and we are aligned with emissions standards, are fitted with Wi-Fi breadth of our networks in response to market the national Government and local councils andmost have next stop audio visual conditions, whilst continuing to stimulate growth inwanting to get more people out of their cars announcements and USB charging points.
through delivering high-quality services and and on the buses.
Buses have a fundamental Weare now one of the largest DfT certified identifying opportunities to grow our markets.
role to play in delivering Clean Air Zones with Low Carbon Bus operators in the UK, and authorities supporting greater use of public were recently recognised as Low Carbon transport in their towns and cities as they take Vehicle Operator of the Year.
measures to tackle congestion and improve airquality.
We believe that local authorities FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 First Rail division revenue decreased to 1,268.8m 2016: 1,308.4m, reecting like-for-like passenger revenue growth of 1.3% offset by reduced subsidy receipts and the remapping of certain routes out of the scope of the new TPE franchise.
Passenger volumes increased by 0.7%, reecting a slowdown in growth due to macroeconomic uncertainty, modal shift due to sustained lower fuel prices, and the effect of non-recurring events such asthe Rugby World Cup in the prior year.
Themagnitude of the infrastructure upgrade works taking place on the GWR network has exaggerated the impact of these factors on that franchise, while revenue performance for TPE has been better than the industry average during the year.
Adjusted operating profit of 53.8m 2016: 72.9m represents a margin of 4.2% 2016: 5.6%, which in part reects the rebasing toward industry norms under the terms of the TPE and GWR contracts agreed during the prior year as well as the slowing revenue growth environment, partially offset by costefciencies and resolution of historic performance regime discussions with the DfT.
The adjusted operating margin was also reduced by the 8.3m impact of adverse Business review currency movements on US dollardenominated diesel fuel costs.
First Rail Focused and disciplined bidding GWR continues to operate under the By relentlessly focusing on the quality commercial terms of a direct award which runs to 1 April 2019.
The DfT is now assuming of service we provide to passengers, that it will exercise its option to extend this direct award to April 2020 in its latest franchise we will continue to play the significant timetable, published in December 2016.
We successfully launched the new TPE franchise role in the UK rail industry that we in April 2016, which will run until at least 2023. havemaintained since privatisation.
Outside franchising, our plans continue for new open access services between London, north east England and Edinburgh from 2021, which will offer a single class of service on a new eet oftrains designed to encourage travellers to switch from air or coach travel to rail.
In March the DfT announced that our 70:30 partnership with MTR Corporation had been selected to operate the new South Western railfranchise from 20 August 2017 until at least August 2024.
Over the course of the franchise, 1.2bn will be invested to raise the quality of every aspect of train journeys on the South Western network.
In the year our bid to operate Steve Montgomery the East Anglia franchise was not successful.
Managing Director, First Rail Continuous improvement in operating and financial performance The Governments investment in key national rail infrastructure continues, including the 2017 2016 7.5bn investment in the Great Western Mainline and work on the TransPennine route.
Revenue 1,268.8m 1,308.4m We have a strong track record for close Adjusted operating profit 53.8m 72.9m partnership working with all industry partners to deliver infrastructure upgrade projects whilst Adjusted operating margin 4.2% 5.6% minimising disruption for passengers.
We are working closely with Network Rail and with the Number of employees 7,500 7,500 DfT to support these infrastructure upgrades, 22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report which will help us deliver capacity, frequency 2017 and journey time improvements for customers.
1 Approximate revenue by type In the latest independent Transport Focus Our National Rail Passenger Survey completed during autumn 2016 all of FirstGroups three strengths Passenger train operating companies again scored above revenue 93% the national average for overall satisfaction.
Other revenue 7% Hull Trains continued to top the national table with a score of 97%, 11 points higher than Significant participant in the UK theaverage of long distance operators.
GWR railmarket since privatisation saw a slight year-on-year fall from its previous 1 record high to 82%, although scores for ticket Experienced in running every type In the year the Group received no revenue support payments from Government and made total purchasing, train comfort and station ofpassenger rail operation intercity, franchise payments to Government of 140.8m, environments all showed improvement.
TPE regional, commuter, sleeper and open access which are included in costs.
scored 84%, up a point year-on-year, with Strong commercial, rolling stock improvements in 25 out of 37 categories.
andmajor infrastructure upgrade waiting, retail and interchange facilities.
We are Prudent investment in our key assets projectcapabilities also introducing new ticket machines which We continue to deliver new trains for all three Highly experienced bidding team with make it easy to find the best value fares.
By 2020, 90% of our arecord of developing disciplined bids theyear more than 5,000 frontline employees customers will be travelling on a train less than thatdeliver for passengers and taxpayers.
took part in our customer service training five years old.
770,000 was made available in the year from GWRs On GWR, alongside the ongoing investment in 2.25m Customer and Communities the rail network, the biggest fleet upgrade in a Improvement Fund.
A similar fund has generation has started.
New Hitachi InterCity beenintroduced by TPE this year, which Express trains are scheduled to be introduced willwork with community organisations later this year, and GWR will be the first acrossthenetwork.
operator to run this class of rolling stock.
Weintroduced the first electric trains to run Future priorities onGWRs London suburban routes from We will continue to focus on working with September, providing more capacity: the ourindustry partners to realise the upgrade service is being extended along the Thames plans across the network, so that passengers Valley from May 2017.
Overall, we will create will begin to see the benefits from new and three million more seats across the network better trains, more seats and services, byDecember 2018, as well as quicker journey quickerjourney times, improved stations times and more frequent services.
The new TPE franchise connecting major We will also continue to examine opportunities cities across the North and Scotland was to grow our rail business through our launched with a new brand during the year.
disciplined approach to the DfTs franchising More than 500m is being invested to process, aiming to deliver ambitious transform rail services across the region improvements for passengers and appropriate including 220 new carriages, comprising a mix returns for shareholders, at an acceptable level of new Hitachi InterCity trains and a further of risk.
During the year we announced 70:30 intercity fleet from CAF.
The first of the new partnerships with Trenitalia UK Limited to trains will be introduced from summer 2018, South Western rail bidtogether for the East Midlands and West providing 13 million more seats, and we are Coast Partnership rail franchise competitions.
franchise competition also completely refurbishing the remaining TPE Outlook success rolling stock.
Hull Trains will also benefit from a Although like-for-like passenger revenue in the new Hitachi InterCity fleet.
Passenger benefits In partnership with MTR, we have fourth quarter increased by 2.5%, we remain from these new trains include more seats beenselected by the Department for cautious on the rate of passenger growth in andspace, Wi-Fi and onboard infotainment Transport to run the new South Western light of current industry conditions, and expect options.
As well as transforming the customer rail franchise.
Over the course of the divisional margin to be lower as a result.
We experience, the extra capacity will allow us to franchise, which will operate from look forward to commencing operation of the deliver future passenger growth.
20August 2017 until at least August South Western franchise from August 2017 in 2024, 1.2bn will be invested to raise the Responsible partnerships with our conjunction with our partner MTR Corporation.
quality of every aspect of train journeys customers and communities on the South Western network.
Our We are introducing a redesigned passenger successful bid will deliver the tangible app that allows customers to purchase tickets improvements that customers have told and reserve seats via mobile phone as well as us they want from this franchise.
We plan their door to door multi-modal journey.
willintroduce new, spacious carriages This was launched in TPE in December 2016 and additional fully refurbished trains, and was extended to all GWR and Hull delivering more peak seats per day.
Trainscustomers in May 2017, with further Theremaining fleet will be refreshed functionality being introduced over time.
with more reliable Wi-Fi and at-seat At our stations we are delivering additional car charging points plus our stations will parking spaces, as well as new and upgraded benefit from 90m of investment.
customer information screens, and improved FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23
