Business Review As a result of these initiatives, we have seen email traffic in FY17 up 49% against the prior year, with an incremental 1.2m visits to the website.
Overall, sales attributed to email campaigns were up 19%, and open rates were up from 15% to 21%, on average.
We launched our new brand positioning in June 2016, under the strapline of Halfords - For Lifes Journeys.
The new campaign is Putting Customers in helping to drive a clearer understanding of Halfords offer, particularly the Driving Seat amongst younger customers.
We have improved the richness of online content, with more videos and how to guides, reinforcing our service credentials online as well as in shops.
Looking ahead to FY18, we will focus on enhancing some key Over the course of the financial year initiatives, such as smarter search and guided selling functions, we have been rapidly improving to continually improve our personalisation, relevance and to drive our customer data knowledge and greater incremental sales.
We continue to collect customer email addresses across our Retail stores.
We have gathered around 5.3m email addresses within our Retail stores over the last 18 months.
The majority of these customers are new contacts to our database.
We can now match 46% of Retail sales to customers, up from 3% as of November 2015.
We completed the first phase of our single customer view project, joining up 15 different databases.
Across the Group we can now match 59% of sales to customers.
Investment in customer data has allowed us to move from generic email marketing to a more personalised approach, which in turn is driving incremental revenue and awareness of our services.
A few examples include: We have added detailed individualised data into our group single customer view, which has informed the timing, content, frequency and channel of all communications to customers, based on the preferences we infer from their behaviour for example, a family cyclist will see different communications to a camping enthusiast : Over winter we targeted customers on their mobiles with bulbs, blades and batteries messages based on the age of their car obtained from the DVLA, their proximity to store through their mobile phone data and the local weather from the Met Office: and We sent geo-targeted messages to customers who live, work or shop in the location of our new store in Sutton Coldfield to share with them a virtual tour of the revamped store, emailing customers who used to shop in the old store to let them know the new one was opening.
This will be replicated for upcoming store refreshes across the estate.
20 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 20 07 06 2017 16:36:32 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 21 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 21 07 06 2017 16:36:35 Business Review We remain committed to the 3-Gears training programme: nearly 100% of eligible colleagues are at Gear 1, around 70% of colleagues had qualified for Gear 2 by the end of FY17 and we also now have circa 10% of colleagues trained to Gear 3 guru level, which is in line with our target proportions.
Going forward we will continually refresh existing colleagues training and also develop new colleagues.
Service in Our Retail apprenticeship scheme remains popular and we have now Our DNA placed over 40 trainees into permanent roles across our stores.
We continued to build our pipeline of Assistant Store Managers and Store Managers through our Aspire programme: in FY17 we filled 48% of store management vacancies internally.
We have a menu of over 30 Retail colleague turnover has further improved during the year to in-store services across Motoring record lows and is now circa 33% which will deliver long term benefits and Cycling, which are key to for the business.
We were also pleased to once again be included within the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work For list, moving our uniqueness as a service-led, up to 13th place from 18th place last year.
specialist retailer, driving our distinct As of April 2016 we introduced the National Living Wage for our competitive advantage.
colleagues aged 25 and over, and at the same time introduced our 20p supplement for all colleagues upon qualifying for Gear 1.
This, We introduced two new motoring combined with other changes to our pay structures, lifted the pay of all colleagues of the Halfords Group to above the minimum wage.
services in the year: windscreen chip repair and motorcycle bulb and battery fitting which are both growing strongly.
We also introduced new services in cycling, such as bike sizing using Smartfit technology in our recently refreshed concept stores, as well as slime puncture proofing.
We will be launching many more in-store services across both Motoring and Cycling in the months ahead.
We remain focused on growing the important metric of servicerelated sales, which we aim to grow faster than overall sales: in FY17 we achieved LFL growth of 11.1%.
We completed nearly 5 million fitting services during the year, which equates to over 10,000 services per Retail store.
There remains an opportunity to grow our service-related sales through increasing customer awareness of our services, as well as harnessing the trend away from do it yourself to do it for me.
We have updated our net promoter score methodology with a new programme of customer experience measurements in shops, weighted according to what matters most to customers.
We have opened up more channels for customers to give us their feedback, including exit interviews as customers leave the store, carried out by an external third party and direct links to e-receipts.
22 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 22 07 06 2017 16:36:40 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Case Study: 3-Gears training In 2013 we launched 3-Gears, a qualification programme that trains and rewards colleagues for gaining expertise.
The programme is now well embedded and is absolutely core to our At the end of FY17 around 70% of our colleagues had qualified for customer-centric, service-led proposition.
80% of our customers Gear 2 and we had over 500 Gear 3 level colleagues.
want some form of assistance with their purchases and so it is There are many benefits of this investment in training.
We have imperative that we have a team of engaged, friendly experts.
more multi-skilled colleagues, which means that rather than having The three Gears represent the different stages of qualification: one fitter per store, we have many colleagues capable of replacing bulbs, wiper blades or batteries, or child car seats, enabling us to GEAR 1 Gear 1 applies to all colleagues and is completed over meet demand.
Customer satisfaction measures have also improved their first three-month period with Halfords.
We use structured significantly, reflecting the focus on providing great service as well as e-learning modules that cover health & safety, processes & enhanced technical and product knowledge.
Colleague engagement policies, retail skills and customer service.
The outcome is that all has increased, evidenced by Halfords listing in the Sunday Times store colleagues will be qualified to serve customers confidently Best Big Companies To Work For 13th place in 2017 and record low and receive a pay award.
Retail colleague turnover of 33% at the end of FY17.
Finally, we are GEAR 2 Gear 2 involves a nine-month training programme which also seeing the benefits in financial outputs.
Service-related sales leads to an expert level of product knowledge, with a specialism in have grown strongly and in FY17 we undertook nearly 5 million ineither motoring or cycling.
Learning is through e-learning, in-store store services, which equates to over 10,000 per store.
We fitted five practical and face-to-face training programmes.
There are regular times as many dash cams in FY17 as we did the year before and we refresher courses for Gear 2 colleagues and a pay award for those also achieved a sales growth in child car seats that was double the who attain this level.
GEAR 3 Gear 3 colleagues are our Technicians.
They are product experts who are qualified to perform more advanced services.
They keep their skills and knowledge current and market leading - through workshops, attending product and trade shows and by linking with and visiting suppliers.
Our Technicians also receive industry recognised qualifications, continuous professional development and a pay award.
We have made great progress in our ability to match sales to customers during the year and also in understanding their behaviours better.
Going forward, this will support us to raise awareness of our services, in-turn becoming more relevant to our customers and driving incremental sales.
com 23 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 23 07 06 2017 16:36:48 Business Review Tradecard sales grew 14.6% in the year, supported by an enhanced central support team and from the enabling of cards to be used online for the first time.
Looking ahead to FY18 we have recently enhanced our range of e-bikes, a fast-growing segment of the cycling market, with an increased range of new own-brand e-bikes which have been rolledBuilding on Our out to almost all retail stores from around 120, since the start of April Uniqueness 2017.
We will also be building our Boardman Performance Centre, due to open in 2018.
This will be a revolutionary cycling research and development centre, including a wind tunnel and physiological testing and also provide access to the growing ranks of enthusiasts to test Exclusive products, relevant their capability alongside experts.
innovation and unique partnerships From a services perspective, in Motoring we will be launching all strengthen our clear an ad-blue top-up service and car key fob repair, which will both complement and enhance our existing offering.
During the year we introduced the following new initiatives and products: Launched a new range of mainstream adult Carrera and Apollo Fast Fact bikes, alongside a new and exclusive Wiggins range: Developed our capability of being a market-leading fitter of dash cams, differentiating us from online or generalist retailers: 1 Launched our safer seat campaign helping customers to fit their 4 million child car seats with greater peace of mind: kids unwrapped bikes Enhanced our range of PACs for the Boardman brand, which won from Halfords on Best Bike brand in the prestigious BikeBiz 2017 awards, together Christmas Day with a host of other coveted industry awards: Launched an exclusive range of Orla Kiely camping and travel accessories: and Expanded our range of motorcycling parts and accessories.
24 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 24 07 06 2017 16:36:57 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Case Study: Exclusive Ranges Halfords occupies a unique position in the markets in which we operate and building upon this further strengthens our clear differentiation.
Exclusive Ranges are a key part of this.
We have many exclusive ranges within Halfords, ranging from the Halfords Advanced own brand tool ranges, the Halfords own brand batteries and bulbs, to our bike brands such as Apollo and Carrera.
In fact, around 80% of the bikes that we sell across the Group are exclusive to Halfords.
During the year we have continued to enhance our product ranges, including: New modular tool sets under our Halfords Advanced brand.
These come with a lifetime guarantee and are becoming increasingly popular among professional and amateur mechanics alike.
A partnership with Olympian and Tour fide France champion, Sir Bradley Wiggins comprising an exclusive range of 10 high quality childrens bikes ranging from a balance bike for toddlers to a In addition to product range enhancements we also continued to add junior road bike.
The Wiggins collection of kids bikes is Halfords to our range of services.
We have over 30 in-store services across third venture with an Olympic champion.
Halfords also owns the motoring and cycling.
In FY17 we introduced two new motoring Boardman Bike brand launched by Chris Boardman MBE, and also services: windscreen chip repair and motorcycle bulb and battery launched the exclusive Pendleton range of womens bikes with fitting.
We also introduced new services in cycling, such as bike sizing double Olympic medallist, Victoria Pendleton.
using Smartfit technology in our recently refreshed concept stores, as well as slime puncture proofing.
We will be launching more in-store A partnership with fashion designer Orla Kiely to bring a new services across both motoring and cycling in the months ahead.
and exclusive Olive and Orange range to Halfords.
The collection includes printed hybrid bikes, cycle accessories, as well as camping essentials for festival season.
com 25 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 25 07 06 2017 16:36:59 Business Review During the year we also implemented a more agile approach to web development, whereby we complemented the core digital team at our Support Centre in Redditch with a separate web development team in central London.
This enabled us to accelerate the improvement of our websites during the year through the following means: Better Shopping Deploying code changes five times more frequently than in the Experience prior year: Introducing a guided selling tool, helping customers reach a purchase decision through various questions: During the year we evolved our Retail Redeveloping our mobile check-out process to provide a more store refresh concept, opening the seamless customer journey: and first of these in Derby in November Making a series of incremental changes to drive conversion rates 2016 and subsequently opening four across our sites.
more by the end of the financial year.
These changes, along with completing a number of site performance enhancements, supported the development of richer online content The previous store programme had and enabled us to maintain our group website performance through peak periods.
been successful, delivering good sales By the year-end, Cycle Republic reached 15 stores and represented uplifts, and therefore did not require circa 1% of Group revenue.
We opened 5 new stores during the year in Purley, Birmingham, Leeds, Southampton and Edinburgh.
We are encouraged by the progress, with strong double-digit LFL sales growth and a successful launch of the transactional website However, we have updated the concept to reflect the Moving Up A in August 2016.
Building on this success we will continue to roll out Gear strategy and to incorporate advances in our customer insight more stores and further develop the online presence.
We anticipate and technological capabilities.
The differences to the previous store opening around 5 stores in FY18.
refresh format include: We are very pleased with the performance of Tredz during the year, as Enhancements to reflect our growing service proposition, sales have grown 22.0% year-on-year in the period since acquisition.
including customer waiting areas with coffee machines and more prominence placed on in-store services to raise awareness: Technological enhancements, including digital imaging bike fitting, dedicated hubs for service, technology, click & collect: Colleague headsets to enable better communication between colleagues supporting better customer service: A shop-in-shop feel with clear differences between the Motoring and Cycling sections: and New brand positioning internally and externally.
Early signs are very encouraging, both in terms of customer response and sales uplifts: the latter running at higher levels than achieved in the early days of the previous store refresh iteration.
The priority for our first store in Derby was to establish a basic blueprint from which to roll out at an accelerated rate in FY18.
We will continually evolve the concept, learning as we go and adding new features.
We will also launch a light version, designed to bring some of the principles to stores that do not financially justify a full refresh.
In total we anticipate refreshing around 30 stores in FY18.
During the year we successfully rolled-out the use of Apple Pay and contactless card payments across the Retail estate, thereby improving the in-store shopping experience for our customers.
As at March 2017, around 50% of in-store transactions were completed using one of these new methods.
We are also making great progress in mobile, with traffic up 31% in the year and one in three online orders made using a mobile device this year, compared to one in four last year.
26 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 26 07 06 2017 16:37:03 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Case Study: Updated store refresh concept The key features of the refresh concept are: Greater focus on services, including in-store service menu and Physical and IT clearer signage: infrastructure Park up and relax lounge, where customers can sit and have a hot drink whilst waiting for services on their car or bike: Dedicated, covered fitting bays in the car park for on-the-spot bulb, blade and battery fittings and other services, such as windscreen chip repair: Halfords is a service-led specialist retailer.
This is Electric car charging points, in support of the growing number of reflected in some important statistics: electric cars on the road: Dedicated hubs within the store for service, parts, technology and 80% of our customers want some form of assistance with their click & collect: purchases.
Around 85% of customers shopping on Halfords.
com collect their Updated design principles, to reflect the Halfords For Lifes purchases in store.
Journeys brand positioning that was launched in June 2016: This means our stores are absolutely central to our proposition and An exciting new Smart Fit centre that enables customers aged we need to continue to invest in them.
In 2013 we embarked upon a 8 and over to have their measurements taken virtually to find the store refresh programme and around 100 stores were refreshed in the perfect bike for them: subsequent three years.
This programme was a success with positive Headsets to enable colleagues to communicate instantly customer feedback and sales uplifts that justified the capital investment.
regardless of whether they are inside or outside the shop: and Following the launch of our Moving Up A Gear strategy in November Two distinct shops within a shop.
The cycling area has a softer 2015 we decided to take another look at our refresh programme: feel, whilst the motoring area is more functional.
evolving it to reflect improvements in customer data, branding and technological capability, and to showcase our key differentiators: We are learning as we go and well be continually testing new service and services.
In November 2016 we opened the first of these concepts along the way.
However we are encouraged by the initial new refresh concepts in Derby.
We have since refreshed a further response, both in terms of customer feedback and sales uplifts.
We four stores before the year end.
plan to refresh around 30 stores in FY18.
com 27 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 27 07 06 2017 16:37:08 Business Review After a successful pilot we implemented Dayforce our colleague resource planning system in February and March 2017, removing eleven systems and replacing them with one tool that we now use across the Group.
Colleagues and line managers can log into the system to view and change shifts, and the system enables us to better optimise scheduling of resource.
Fit for Future We continue to develop the i-Serve project to replace our till Infrastructure hardware and software.
This is a major piece of IT change spanning stores and Autocentres.
We are in pilot stage, including testing the mobile tablets and we anticipate rolling out to stores and Autocentres towards the end of FY18.
After a number of changes in the We remain focused on our successful We Operate For Less previous two years in our supply programme, delivering efficiency improvements.
Examples of chain infrastructure, this year has initiatives completed during the year include: been much more stable.
A new stock put-away process, saving around 3 hours per store per week: The delivery-to-store model is fullyInstalling a Click & Collect cabinet at the front of shops, saving time for customers and colleagues: embedded and working well, with Jade, a secure tool box positioned in the car park, saving around resilient performance through the peak 2.5 hours per week for colleagues: and Black Friday and Christmas periods.
Rolling-out colleague headsets, enabling colleagues to share knowledge, free-up time and improve customer service.
Leveraging these firm foundations we took the opportunity to review our warehousing arrangements resulting in the consolidation of a number of external storage units into a third distribution centre in Daventry, adding to our existing centres in Coventry and Redditch.
Fast Fact This arrangement is broadly cost neutral but is more flexible and enables swifter replenishment of stores.
Almost During the year we also joined up our stock systems, giving us a single view of stock for the first time.
This enables better fulfilment of 5 million online purchases and improved availability in stores.
fitting services completed during the year in our 460 Retail stores 28 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 28 07 06 2017 16:37:09 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
