Strategic Report Sector Outlook Life Science Tools Diagnostics Emerging Markets During the Companys previous financial year, the life sciences Emerging markets continue to offer healthcare companies sector saw consistent investor bids as it gained favoritism with superior growth prospects than many companies in the amongst healthcare investors looking for stability amidst West, driven by aging demographics, rising income levels, and uncertainties in bio-pharma.
Outside of sub-sector rotation an expected increase in the proportion of GDP spent on dynamics, the sector enjoyed outsized growth in healthcare.
Our strategy continues to be to invest in  end markets that kept fundamentals high-quality leading companies in each subsector that will largely intact.
Academic and government spending saw reflect these positive long-term macro trends.
another year of anemic growth despite positive rhetoric out of In China, our investments consist of companies in two broad Washington D. C. Whilst the weak spending coming out of the categories: 1 pharmaceuticals and 2 private hospitals.
In the government funded National Institutes of Health NIH and pharmaceutical space, the Chinese government has been NIH-levered academic markets, the deleterious impact to undertaking reforms to increase the quality of drugs sold in share prices was muted due to aforementioned China and improve the robustness and efficiency of their drug pharma-related activities in the sector.
To improve the quality of medicines in China, Although devoid of large transformative deals in 2016, the government is mandating bioequivalence testing for many consolidation in the industry remained active with of the generic drugs currently marketed in China to confirm Thermo Fisher, Danaher, and Abbott involved with small to that they truly have equivalent efficacy to the original brand.
medium sized acquisitions which helped valuations remain The government is also discouraging use of so-called elevated throughout the course of the year.
adjuvant drugs, which account for the majority of hospital drug use yet have little to no clinical data demonstrating their For 2017, we expect the sector to continue to benefit from efficacy.
We expect these initiatives to reduce the number of relative uncertainties and volatility of bio-pharma as drug low-quality drugs in the Chinese marketplace, which should pricing rhetoric in the U. S. possibly lingers with unclear reduce pricing pressure in the space.
On the regulatory front, pathway forward.
Kicking off this year, we are seeing early the Chinese FDA CFDA has been criticised for being slow to signs of recovery in the cyclical industrial end market, which approve new drugs typically taking multiple years rather than has been a drag to the overall growth profile of the industry for the U. S. FDAs target of a year or less.
To clear the extensive the past few years.
Additionally, new product cycles in backlog of drugs pending review at the CFDA, the agency genomics continue to grab investors interests.
In particular, asked all pharmaceutical companies to certify the clinical data new products that can proverbially move the needle could integrity of any pending drug applications at the agency.
drug sponsors found to have applications with deficient clinical That said, foreword looking valuations of the sector should, data quality would be sanctioned by not having any of their and will, be debated.
The current premium versus the broader future drug applications accepted or approved by the agency market and other healthcare sub-sectors remains elevated.
As a result of this stringent We expect this trend to continue.
But with stretched balance self-certification requirement, the vast majority of pending sheets and rising interest rates environment, expectations of drug applications were actually withdrawn from the CFDA.
In large transformative deals should be muted.
addition, the CFDA has instituted a priority review programme Defensive bids, generated by stability in end markets, should which accelerates review of innovative drugs in certain allow current valuations to be sustained in the near term.
therapeutic areas of unmet medical need.
All of these policies However, looking at the sub-sector holistically, a dose of should benefit high-quality drug companies developing caution is necessary given premium valuation.
We remain innovative drugs, which are the types of companies OrbiMed neutral in the sector but select exposure to product cycle prefers investing in.
Over the course of 2016, pricing pressure names is warranted.
from provincial tenders continued to act as a headwind for the sector.
While we expect pricing pressure to persist, we believe volume growth should allow companies to continue to deliver Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 18 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Strategic Report Sector Outlook strong earnings growth, especially those companies with innovative products that are less susceptible to competition.
In the private hospital sector, we are capitalising on the Chinese governments desire to develop the healthcare delivery infrastructure in the country.
The government has been encouraging more private investment in hospitals.
Our hospital investments in China consist of high-quality operators that are expected to expand profitably in Asia.
Unlike drug companies, private hospitals do not face the same headwinds stemming from pricing pressure due to drug tenders.
In India, our strategy remains to invest in high quality generic companies with compliant manufacturing and specialty differentiated products.
Over the course of the year, the FDA continued to inspect the manufacturing facilities at many Indian generic manufacturers, resulting in the identification of deficiencies that in some cases led to temporary plant suspensions.
While we expect the FDA inspections to continue, we would expect the leaders in the Indian generics industry to remedy any manufacturing deficiencies identified, resulting in a long-term improvement in manufacturing quality for the Indian generics industry overall.
One headwind that has weighed on the Indian pharmaceutical industry is the pricing erosion seen recently in the U. S. generics market, which will affect Indian companies with U. S. exposure.
We believe new generic launches can mitigate this impact.
Samuel D. Isaly OrbiMed Capital LLC Portfolio Manager 14 June 2017 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 19 Strategic Report Business Review The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility with the ability to assess how the Directors have performed for all the key elements of the Companys strategy and their duty to promote the success of the Company during the business model, including: year under review.
Investment Objective, Policy and Benchmark, incorporating the investment and derivative guidelines and Structure and objective of the Company limits, and changes to these: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC is an investment trust and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its maximum level of gearing and leverage the Company may investment objective is set out on page 6.
In seeking to employ: achieve this objective, the Company employs Frostrow Capital review of performance against the Companys KPIs: LLP Frostrow as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager review of the performance and continuing appointment of AIFM, OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed as its Portfolio service providers: and Manager, J. P. Morgan Europe Limited as its Depositary and maintenance of an effective system of oversight, risk J. P. Morgan Securities LLC formerly J. P. Morgan Clearing management and corporate governance.
Corp as its Prime Broker and Custodian.
Further details about their appointments can be found in the Report of the The Investment Objective, Policy, and Benchmark, including Directors on pages 28 and 29.
The Board has determined an the related limits and guidelines, are set out on pages 6 and 7, investment objective, policy and related guidelines and limits, along with details of the gearing and leverage levels allowed.
Details of the principal KPIs and further information on the The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and principal service providers, their performance and continuing appointment, along with details of the principal risks, and regulations including UK company law, UK GAAP, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the UK how they are managed, follow within this Business Review.
Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, The Corporate Governance report, on pages 32 to 39, taxation law and the Companys own Articles of Association.
includes a statement of compliance with corporate governance codes and best practice, and the Business The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Review pages 22 to 24 includes details of the internal Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved control and risk management framework within which the by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the Board operates.
purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on Key performance indicators KPI capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that To ensure an attractive share price total return the Board approval will not continue to be retained.
KPI metrics, including a five year history, can be seen on pages 1, 2 and 3.
The Board The Board of the Company comprises Sir Martin Smith Net asset value NAV per share total return against the Chairman, Sarah Bates, Dr David Holbrook, Samuel D. Isaly, Benchmark: Doug McCutcheon and Humphrey van der Klugt.
All of these Discount premium of share price to NAV per share: and Directors served throughout the year and are independent Ongoing charges ratio.
non-executive Directors, except for Samuel D. Isaly who is NAV per share total return against the Benchmark deemed not to be independent due to his role at OrbiMed.
The Directors regard the Companys NAV per share total Further information on the Directors can be found on return as being the overall measure of value delivered to pages 26 and 27. shareholders over the long term.
This reflects both net asset All Directors seek election or re-election by shareholders at value growth of the Company and dividends paid each Annual General Meeting.
Board focus and responsibilities The Board considers the most important comparator, against With the day to day management of the Company outsourced which to assess the NAV per share total return performance, to service providers the Boards primary focus at each Board to be the MSCI World Health Care Index measured on a net meeting is reviewing the investment performance and total return, sterling adjusted basis.
As noted on page 6 associated matters, such as, inter alia, future outlook and Frostrow and OrbiMed have flexibility in managing the strategy, gearing, asset allocation, investor relations, investments and are not limited by the constraints of the marketing, and industry issues.
As a result, investment decisions may be made Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 20 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Strategic Report Business Review that differentiate the Company from the Benchmark and During the year, under the terms of the AIFM Agreement, therefore the Companys performance may also be different Frostrow received a periodic fee equal to 0.30% per annum of to that of the Benchmark.
the Companys market capitalisation up to 150 million, 0.20% per annum of the market capitalisation in excess of A full description of performance during the year under review 150 million and up to 500 million, and 0.125% per annum is contained in the Portfolio Managers Review commencing on of the market capitalisation in excess of 500 million, plus a page 11 of this Annual Report.
fixed amount equal to 57,500 per annum, and a Share price discount premium to NAV per share performance fee of 1.5% of outperformance against the The share price discount premium to NAV per share is Benchmark as detailed on page 28. considered a key indicator of performance as it impacts the With effect from 1 April 2017 the annual management fee share price total return of shareholders and can provide an payable to Frostrow has been amended as follows: indication of how investors view the Companys performance and its Investment Objective.
On market capitalisation up to 150 million: 0.3% Ongoing charges ratio unchanged : in the range 150 million to 500 million: 0.2% unchanged : in the range 500 million to 1 billion: 0.15% The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard to maintain a balance between good quality service and increased from 0.125% : in the range 1 billion to costs.
In addition, Frostrow continues to Principal service providers receive a fixed fee per annum of 57,500.
The principal service providers to the Company are the AIFM, Frostrow Capital LLP Frostrow, the Portfolio Manager, Frostrow is no longer entitled to future performance fees, OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed, the Prime Broker however it will still be entitled to receive any performance fee J. P. Morgan Securities LLC, and the Depositary, J. P. Morgan that crystallises during the year ending 31 March 2018 in Europe Limited.
Details of their key responsibilities follow respect of cumulative outperformance attained by and further information on their contractual arrangements 31 March 2017. with the Company are included in the Report of the Directors Portfolio Manager commencing on page 28.
OrbiMed under the terms of its portfolio management Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM agreement with the AIFM and the Company provides, inter Frostrow under the terms of its AIFM agreement with the alia, the following services: Company provides, inter alia, the following services: the seeking out and evaluating of investment oversight of the portfolio management function delegated opportunities: to OrbiMed Capital LLC: recommending the manner by which monies should be investment portfolio administration and valuation: invested, disinvested, retained or realised: risk management services: advising on how rights conferred by the investments marketing and shareholder services: should be exercised: share price discount and premium management: analysing the performance of investments made: and administrative and secretarial services: advising the Company in relation to trends, market advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance movements and other matters which may affect the requirements: investment objective and policy of the Company.
maintains the Companys accounting records: OrbiMed receives a base fee of 0.65% of NAV and a maintenance of the Companys website: performance fee of 15% of outperformance against the preparation and dispatch of annual and half year reports Benchmark as detailed on page 28. and monthly fact sheets: and ensuring compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 21 Strategic Report Business Review Depositary and Prime Broker secretarial, administrative and marketing team that the J. P. Morgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys Depositary AIFM allocates to the management of the Company: and and J. P. Morgan Securities LLC as its Prime Broker.
the quality of the service provided and the quality and depth of experience allocated by the Portfolio Manager to J. P. Morgan Europe Limited, as Depositary, must take the management of the portfolio and the long-term reasonable care to ensure that the Company is managed in performance of the portfolio in absolute terms and by accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Investment reference to the Benchmark.
Funds Sourcebook, the AIFMD and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Depositary must in the context of this role Principal risks act honestly, fairly, professionally, independently and in the In fulfilling its oversight and risk management interests of the Company and its shareholders.
responsibilities the Board maintains a framework of key risks which affect the Company and the related internal controls The Depositary receives a variable fee based on the size of designed to enable the Directors to manage and or mitigate the Company as set out on pages 28 and 29. these risks.
The risks can be categorised under the following J. P. Morgan Europe Limited has discharged certain of its broad headings: liabilities as Depositary to J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
Investment including leverage risks : Further details of this arrangement are set out on pages 28 Operational including financial corporate governance, and 29.
J. P. Morgan Securities LLC, as Prime Broker, provides accounting, legal, cyber security and regulatory risks : and the following services under its agreement with the Company: safekeeping and custody of the Companys investments Strategic including shareholder relations and share price and cash: performance.
processing of transactions: Further information on the internal control and the risk provision of an overdraft facility.
Assets up to 140% of the management framework can be found below and information value of the outstanding overdraft can be taken as on the use of financial instruments and their associated collateral.
Such assets may be used by the Prime Broker risks, including exposures to market risk and counterparty and such use may include being loaned, sold, risk can be found in note 16 beginning on page 64. rehypothecated or transferred by the Prime Broker: and The following section details the risks the Board consider to be foreign exchange services.
the most significant to the Company.
AIFM and Portfolio Manager evaluation and Market risks re-appointment By the nature of its activities and Investment Objective, the The performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager is Companys portfolio is exposed to fluctuations in market reviewed continuously by the Board and the Companys prices from both individual security prices and foreign Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee the exchange rates and due to exposure to the global healthcare Committee with a formal evaluation being undertaken each sector, it is expected to have higher volatility than the wider year.
As part of this process, the Committee monitors the market.
As such investors should be aware that by investing services provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager and in the Company they are exposing themselves to market receives regular reports and views from them.
The Committee risks and those additional risks specific to the sectors in also receives comprehensive performance measurement which the Company invests, such as political interference in reports to enable it to determine whether or not the drug pricing.
In addition, the Company uses leverage both performance objectives set by the Board have been met.
The through derivatives and gearing the effect of which is to Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the appointment amplify the gains or losses the Company experiences.
of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager in March 2017 with a To manage these risks the Board and the AIFM have positive recommendation being made to the Board.
appointed OrbiMed to manage the investment portfolio within The Board believes the continuing appointment of the AIFM the remit of the investment objective and policy, and imposed and the Portfolio Manager, under the terms described on various limits and guidelines, set out on pages 6 and 7. page 21, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In These limits ensure that the portfolio is diversified, reducing coming to this decision, it took into consideration, inter alia, the risks associated with individual stocks, and that the the following: maximum exposure through derivatives and an overdraft the quality of the service provided and the depth of facility is limited.
The compliance with those limits and experience of the company management, company Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 22 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Strategic Report Business Review guidelines is monitored daily by Frostrow and OrbiMed and rights associated with those assets.
The Company is afforded reported to the Board monthly.
protection in accordance with SEC rules and U. S. legislation equal to the value of the assets that have been rehypothecated.
In addition OrbiMed reports at each Board meeting on the performance of the Companys portfolio, which encompasses Credit risk is managed by the Board through: the rationale for stock selection decisions, the make-up of reviews of the arrangements with, and services provided the portfolio, potential new holdings and, derivative activity by, the Depositary and Prime Broker to ensure that the and strategy further details on derivatives can be found in security of the Companys assets is being maintained.
Legal opinions are sought, where appropriate, as part of this review: The Company does not currently hedge its currency exposure.
monitoring of the assets taken as collateral further Investment management key person risk details can be found in note 16 on page 68 : There is a risk that the individuals responsible for managing reviews of OrbiMeds approved list of counterparties, the the Companys portfolio may leave their employment or may Companys use of those counterparties and OrbiMeds be prevented from undertaking their duties.
process for monitoring, and adding to, the approved The Board manage this risk by: counterparty list: appointing OrbiMed, who operate a team environment monitoring of counterparties, including reviews of internal such that the loss of any individual should not impact on control reports and credit ratings, as appropriate: and service levels: by only investing in markets that operate DVP Delivery receiving reports from OrbiMed at each Board meeting, Versus Payment settlement.
The process of DVP such report includes any significant changes in the mitigates the risk of losing the principal of a trade during make-up of the team supporting the Company: the settlement process.
meeting the wider team, outside the designated lead Service provider risk manager, at OrbiMeds offices and encouraging the The Board is reliant on the systems of the Companys service participation of the wider OrbiMed team in investor providers and as such disruption to, or a failure of, those updates: and systems could lead to a failure to comply with law and delegating to the Management Engagement & regulations leading to reputational damage and or financial Remuneration Committee, responsibility to perform an loss to the Company.
annual review of the service received from OrbiMed, To manage these risks the Board: including, inter alia, the team supporting the lead manager receives a monthly compliance report from Frostrow, and succession planning.
which includes, inter alia, details of compliance with Counterparty risk applicable laws and regulations: In addition to market and foreign currency risks, discussed reviews internal control reports, key policies, including above, the Company is exposed to credit risk arising from the measures taken to combat cyber security issues, and also use of counterparties.
If a counterparty were to fail, the disaster recovery procedures of its service providers: Company could be adversely affected through either delay in maintains a risk matrix with details of risks the Company settlement or loss of assets.
is exposed to, the controls relied on to manage those risks The most significant counterparty the Company is exposed to is and the frequency of the controls operation: and J. P. Morgan Securities LLC which is responsible for the receives updates on pending changes to the regulatory safekeeping of the Companys assets and provides the overdraft and legal environment and progress towards the facility to the Company.
As part of the arrangements with Companys compliance with these.
J. P. Morgan Securities LLC they may take assets, up to 140% of the value of the drawn overdraft, as collateral and have first Shareholder relations and share price performance risk priority security interest or lien over all of the Companys The Company is also exposed to the risk, particularly if the assets.
Such assets taken as collateral may be used, loaned, investment strategy and approach are unsuccessful, that the sold, rehypothecated or transferred by J. P. Morgan Securities Company may underperform resulting in the Company LLC, although the Company maintains the economic benefit becoming unattractive to investors and a widening of the from the ownership of those assets it does not hold any of the share price discount to NAV per share.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 23
