pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 11 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Strategy Strategic Report Business Review Strategy and Business Model The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is an The Company may borrow money to investment company and its investment provide gearing to the equity portfolio of objective is set out below.
The strategy up to 25% of net assets.
the Board follows to achieve that objective is to set investment policy and risk Use of derivative instruments is guidelines, together with investment limits, monitored carefully by the Board and and to monitor how they are applied.
permitted within the following constraints: the writing of covered calls against These are also set out below and have been approved by shareholders.
securities which in aggregate amount to no more than 10% of the value of the The business model the Company has portfolio and the investment in FTSE 100 adopted to achieve its investment futures which when exercised would objective has been to contract the services equate to no more than 15% of the value of Invesco Fund Managers Limited the of the portfolio.
Other derivative Manager to manage the portfolio in instruments may be employed, subject to accordance with the Boards strategy and prior Board approval, provided that the under its oversight.
The portfolio manager cost and potential liability of exercise of with individual responsibility for the all outstanding derivative positions at any day-to-day management of the portfolio is time should not exceed 25% of the value of the portfolio at that time.
Company may hedge exposure to Investment Objective and Policy changes in foreign currency rates in Investment Objective respect of its overseas investments.
The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of Results and Dividends achieving: At the year end the share price was 713.50p per ordinary share 2016: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per 665p.
The net asset value debt at share in excess of the growth in the market value per ordinary share was FTSE All-Share Index: and 768.81p 2016: 695.30p.
2. growth in dividends per share in excess of the rate of UK inflation.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the final proposed dividend for the year ended Investment Policy 31 March 2017 of 9.15p 2016: 8.75p The Company will generally invest in per ordinary share will be payable on companies quoted on a recognised stock 21 July 2017 to shareholders on the exchange in the UK.
The Company may register on 23 June 2017.
The shares also invest up to 20% of the market value will be quoted ex-dividend on 22 June of the Companys investment portfolio, 2017.
This will give total dividends for measured at the time of any acquisition, the year of 25.35p per share, an increase in securities listed on stock exchanges of 4.1% on the previous years dividends outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected of 24.35p.
The revenue return per share by the Manager on the basis of its for the year was 27.9p, a 4.5% increase assessment of the fundamental value on the 2016 return of 26.7p.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual Performance securities is monitored carefully by the The Board reviews the Companys Board, the portfolio is not primarily performance by reference to a number of structured on the basis of industry key performance indicators KPIs which weightings.
No acquisition may be made are shown on page 4.
Notwithstanding which would result in a holding being that some KPIs are beyond its control, greater than 10% of the market value of they are measures of the Companys the Companys investment portfolio.
The Similarly, the Company may not hold KPIs assist in managing performance and more than 5% of the issued share capital compliance and are reviewed by the or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
11 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 12 Strategy Strategic Report Business Review The Chairmans Statement on pages6to 7 gives a commentary on the performance of the Company during the year, the gearing and the dividend.
Expenses are reviewed at each Board meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
For the year being reported, all KPIs are considered satisfactory.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of the Company in relation to the 22 investment trusts in the UK Equity Income sector.
As at 31 March th 2017, the Company was ranked 15 by NAV performance in this sector over one nd th year and 2 over three and 4 over five years source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Analysis of Performance Analysis of Performance analyses the performance of the Company relative to its benchmark index.
for year ended Relative performance represents the 31 March 2017 arithmetic difference between the NAV % and the benchmark.
Total Return Basis Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stock, bank NAV debt at market value 14.4 loan and cash on the Companys relative Benchmark 22.0 performance.
This will be positive if the portfolio has positive performance.
Relative performance 7.6 Interest arising from the debenture Analysis of Relative Performance stock and bank loan interest paid has a negative impact on performance.
Portfolio total return 13.3 Less Benchmark total return 22.0 Management fee the base fee reduces the Companys net assets and decreases Portfolio underperformance 8.7 performance.
Borrowings: Net gearing effect 2.1 Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a Interest 0.6 negative effect on relative performance.
Market value movement 0.3 Management fee 0.5 Other expenses 0.1 Tax 0.1 Total 7.6 12 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 13 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Financial Position and Borrowings sentiment.
Such factors are outside the The Companys balance sheet on page 48 control of the Board and Manager and shows the assets and liabilities at the year may give rise to high levels of volatility in end.
Borrowings at the year end the prices of investments held by the 3 4 comprised the 100 million 7 % Company.
The asset value and price of debenture which matures in 2022 and the Companys shares and its earnings 109.7 million 2016: 80 million drawn and dividends may consequently also down on the Companys 150 million experience volatility and may decline.
Details of this facility are contained in note 11.
Investment Performance Risk The Board sets performance objectives The Company also has a bank overdraft and delegates the investment facility of up to 10% of assets held by the management process to the Manager.
custodian, which is available to facilitate The achievement of the Companys settlement of short-term cash timing performance objectives relative to the differences.
As at 31 March 2017, market requires active management of this was not drawn down 2016: nil.
the portfolio of assets and securities.
The Managers approach is to construct a Outlook, including the Future of the portfolio which should benefit from Company expected future trends in the UK and The main trends and factors likely to global economies.
The Manager is a long affect the future development, term investor, prepared to take performance and position of the substantial positions in securities and sectors which may well be out of fashion, Companys business can be found in the Portfolio Managers Report.
Details of the but which the Manager believes will have principal risks affecting the Company potential for material increases in follow.
earnings and, in due course, dividends and share prices.
Strategy, asset Principal Risks and Uncertainties allocation and stock selection decisions by The Companys key long-term investment the Manager can lead to objectives are an increase in the net asset underperformance of the benchmark value per share in excess of the growth in and or income targets.
The Managers the FTSE All-Share Index the style may result in a concentrated benchmark and an increase in dividends portfolio with significant overweight or in excess of the growth in RPI.
The underweight positions in individual stocks or sectors compared to the index and principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are an integral consideration consequently the Companys performance when assessing the operations in place to may deviate significantly, possibly for meet these objectives, including the extended periods, from that of the performance of the portfolio, share price benchmark.
In a similar way, the Manager and dividends.
The Board is ultimately manages other portfolios holding many of responsible for the risk control systems the same stocks as the Company which but the day-to-day operation and reflects the Managers high conviction monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
This The Board has carried out a robust could significantly increase the liquidity assessment of the principal risks facing and price risk of certain stocks under the Company and the following sets out certain scenarios and market conditions.
a description of those risks and how they However, the Board and Manager believe are being managed or mitigated.
that the investment process and policy outlined above should, over the long Market Risk term, meet the Companys objectives of A great majority of the Companys capital growth in excess of the benchmark investments are traded on recognised and real dividend growth.
The principal risk for investors in the Company is a significant Investment selection is delegated to the fall, and or a prolonged period of decline Manager.
The Board does not specify in those markets.
Information on the investments, and the income derived from Companys performance against the them, are influenced by many factors benchmark and peer group is provided to such as general economic conditions, the Board at each Board meeting.
The Board uses this to review the performance interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by of the Company, taking into account how supply and demand reflecting investor performance relates to the Companys 13 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 14 Strategy Strategic Report Business Review objectives.
The Manager is responsible for shares trade to NAV can be influenced by monitoring the portfolio selected and share repurchases.
The Company has not seeks to ensure that individual stocks repurchased any shares in the year.
meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
Control Systems Risk As shown in the investment policy, The Board delegates a number of specific derivatives may be used provided that the risk control activities to the Manager market exposure arising is less than 25% including: of the value of the portfolio.
During the year, no forward currency contracts or - good practice industry standards in derivatives were used for hedging or fund management operations: market exposure respectively.
- financial controls: - meeting regulatory requirements: Gearing and Borrowing Risk - the management of the relationship The Company may borrow to provide with the depositary: gearing to the equity portfolio of up to - via the depositary, the management 25% of net assets.
Borrowing is a mix of of the custody and security of the the Companys 100 million debenture Companys assets: and stock and the Companys 150 million - the management of the relationship facility.
Details of all borrowing is given in with the registrar.
The principal gearing risk is that the level of gearing may have Consequently in respect of these activities an adverse impact on performance.
the Company is dependent on the Secondary risks include whether the cost Managers control systems and those of of borrowing is too high and whether the its depositary and registrar, both of which facility can be renewed on terms are monitored by the Manager in the acceptable to the Company.
context of safeguarding the Companys assets and interests.
There is a risk that The Manager has full discretion over the the Manager fails to ensure that these amount of the borrowing it uses to gear controls are operated in a satisfactory its portfolio, whilst the issuance, manner.
In addition, the Company relies repurchase or restructuring of borrowing on the soundness and efficiency of the are for the Board to decide.
Information custodian for good title and timeliness of related to borrowing and gearing is receipt and delivery of securities.
provided to the Directors as part of the Board papers.
Additionally, the Board A risk-based programme of internal audits keeps under review the cost of buying is carried out by the Manager regularly to back the debt.
An internal controls report providing an assessment Income Dividend Risk of these risks and operation of the The Company is subject to the risk that controls is prepared by the Manager and income generation from its investments considered by the Audit Committee, and fails to reach the level of income required is formally reported to and considered by to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the Reliance on the Manager and other review of detailed income forecasts and Third Party Providers comparison against budget.
These are The Company has no employees and the contained within the Board papers.
The Directors are all appointed on a nonBoard considers the level of income at executive basis.
The Company is reliant each meeting.
upon the performance of third party providers for its executive function and Share Price Risk other service provisions.
The Companys There is a risk that the Companys most significant contract is with the prospects and NAV may not be fully Manager, to whom responsibility both for reflected in the share price from time-tothe Companys portfolio and for the time.
provision of company secretarial and administrative services is delegated.
The The share price is monitored on a daily Company has other contractual basis.
The Board is empowered to arrangements with third parties to act as repurchase shares within agreed auditor, registrar, depositary and broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out parameters.
The discount at which the 14 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 15 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc its obligations to the Company in able to manage the portfolio if Mark accordance with the terms of its Barnett was unable to for any reason.
appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the - The Board has set guidelines within Company and could affect the ability of the which the portfolio manager is Company to pursue successfully its permitted wide discretion.
Any investment policy and expose the Company proposed variation outside these to risk of loss or to reputational risk.
guidelines is referred to the Board and compliance with the guidelines and the guidelines themselves are In particular, the Manager performs reviewed at every Board meeting.
services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, Other Risks misconduct, operational failures, negative The Company may be exposed to other publicity and press speculation, whether business, strategic and political risks in or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
the future, as well as regulatory risks Any damage to the reputation of the such as an adverse change in the tax Manager could result in counterparties treatment of investment companies, and and third parties being unwilling to deal the perceived impact of the Manager with the Manager and by extension the ceasing to be involved with the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to The instruments in which the Companys pursue its investment policy.
cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure credit, liquidity and The Board seeks to manage these risks in concentration risks are adequately a number of ways: managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability - The Manager monitors the against other similar investment options.
performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service The Company is subject to laws and standards on a regular basis, and any regulations by virtue of its status as an issues and concerns are dealt with investment trust and is required to comply promptly and reported to the Board.
with certain regulatory requirements that The Manager formally reviews the are applicable to listed closed-ended performance of all third party investment companies.
The Company is providers and reports to the Board on subject to the continuing obligations an annual basis.
imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the - The Board reviews the performance of Official List.
A breach of the conditions for the Manager at every Board meeting approval as an investment trust could lead and otherwise as appropriate.
The to the Company being subject to capital Board has the power to replace the gains tax on the sale of the investments in Manager and reviews the the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach management contract formally once of other regulatory rules may lead to a year.
suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange.
- The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of the The Manager is regulated by the Financial named portfolio manager, Mark Conduct Authority and failure to comply Barnett, Head of UK Equities at with the relevant regulations could harm Invesco Perpetual.
He has worked in the Managers reputation with a potential equity markets since 1992 and has detrimental effect on the Company.
been part of the UK equities team at Invesco Perpetual for over 20 years.
The Manager reviews compliance with investment trust tax conditions and other - The risk that the portfolio manager financial and regulatory requirements on might be incapacitated or otherwise a daily basis.
All transactions, income and unavailable is mitigated by the fact that expenditure are reported to the Board.
he works within, and is supported by, The Board regularly considers all risks, the the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity measures in place to control them and the team.
Moreover James Goldstone, as possibility of any other risks that could deputy portfolio manager, would be arise.
The Board ensures that satisfactory 15 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 16 Strategy Strategic Report Business Review assurances are received from the service Based on the above, and assuming there providers.
The Managers compliance and is no significant adverse change to the internal audit officers produce regular regulatory environment and tax treatment reports for review by the Companys Audit of UK investment trusts, the Directors Committee.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in Additionally, the depositary monitors operation and meet its liabilities as they stock, cash, borrowings and investment fall due over the five year period of restrictions throughout the year.
depositary reports formally once a year and also has access to the Company Board Diversity Chairman and the Audit Committee The Board considers diversity, including Chairman if needed during the year.
the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience, There is an ongoing process for the Board amongst other factors when reviewing its to consider these other risks.
In addition, composition and appointing new the composition of the Board is regularly directors, but does not consider it reviewed to ensure the membership offers appropriate to establish targets or quotas sufficient knowledge and experience to in this regard.
As a norm the Board assess, anticipate and mitigate these comprises either five or six non-executive risks, as far as possible.
directors of which, at present, one is female.
Summary biographical details of Viability Statement the Directors are set out on page 22.
The Company has no employees.
The Company is a collective investment vehicle rather than a commercial business venture and is designed and managed for Social and Environmental Matters long term investment.
The Companys As an investment company with no investment objective clearly sets this out.
employees, property or activities outside Long term for this purpose is considered investment, environmental policy has by the Directors to be at least five years limited application.
The Manager and accordingly they have assessed the considers various factors when evaluating Companys viability over that period.
While a companys However, the life of the Company is not policy towards the environment and social intended to be limited to that or any other responsibility, including with regard to period.
human rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and suitability In assessing the viability of the for the portfolio, the Manager does not Company, the Directors considered the necessarily decide to, or not to, make an principal risks to which it is exposed, as investment on environmental and social set out on pages 13 to 16, together grounds alone.
The Manager applies the with mitigating factors.
The risks of United Nations Principles for Responsible failure to meet the Companys Investment.
investment objective, and contributory market and investment risks, were The Company is an investment vehicle considered to be of particular and does not provide goods or services in importance.
The Directors also took into the normal course of its business, or have account: the investment capabilities of customers.
Accordingly, the Directors the portfolio manager: the business consider that the Company is not required model of the Company, which has to make any slavery or human trafficking effectively been stress tested for many statement under the Modern Slavery years through different and difficult Act 2015. market cycles: the liquidity of the This Strategic Report was approved by portfolio, with nearly all investments the Board on 25 May 2017 being listed and readily realisable: the Companys borrowings both long and Invesco Asset Management Limited short term and the ability of the Company Secretary Company to meet its liabilities as they fall due: and the Companys annual operating costs.
