2 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS ANOTHER STRONG YEAR OF AN INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN A disciplined investment culture is at the DEAR SHAREHOLDER Governance heart of our business model.
We seek I would like to start my first letter as your High quality corporate governance to meet or exceed clients expectations Chairman by thanking my predecessor, helps to deliver stakeholder returns.
commensurate with their risk appetites Justin Dowley for his substantial During the year, the Board and its in each of our strategies.
We therefore contribution to the development of your committees invested significant time on continue to hire and retain top quality Company over the last 10 years.
This has succession planning, including that of the investment professionals so that clients been another year of strategic delivery Chief Executive Officer CEO, recruitment prefer to invest in ICG funds.
During the and the Board agenda has included a of Non Executive Directors, and dividend year we added key investment professionals wide range of business and governance and remuneration policies.
to our liquids, Strategic Secondaries and matters contextualised by internal and Chief Executive US strategies.
We also seek to ensure our external developments.
At this years AGM our long standing infrastructure platforms continue to meet Chief Executive and Chief Investment the needs of all our principal stakeholders Business developments Officer retires from executive life.
shareholders, clients, regulators, suppliers Since 2010 we have transformed ICG Christophe Evain has been with ICG since and staff in a secure, efficient and into a leading alternative asset manager, 1994 and has been the CEO since 2010. scalable manner.
primarily of closed end funds.
We have At the start of his tenure, ICG was just The financial highlights of the year have successfully expanded our range of beginning to emerge from the financial crisis included fundraising inflows of 4bn with strategies from four to 16, established of 2009.
He led the transformation of the money raised for newer strategies including our own distribution team and invested in a Group to the alternative asset manager it is Strategic Secondaries and Australian Senior scalable infrastructure platform.
The total shareholder return over his Loans.
The weighted average fee rate of of this success is our balance sheet which tenure to 31 March 2017 was 326%, which 0.91% is up from 0.88%.
Capital deployment has allowed us to pioneer new investment compares to 102% for the FTSE 350 over has remained on track in a highly competitive strategies and invest alongside our clients the same period.
Third party assets under investment market and our funds are in existing strategies.
management have increased 163% from performing robustly, with a strong level 8.3bn to 21.8bn.
This success is reflective The asset management industry is becoming of realisations and capital gains.
of Christophes management and leadership increasingly split between active and of the business.
The UKs decision to leave the European indexed management.
Both styles have their Union caused us to reassess how we parts to play in wealth generation, but as a Christophes successor is Benot Durteste structure our operations in Europe.
Since private markets operator we are dedicated who joined the Board as an Executive the referendum vote we have evaluated to active management.
He has been with ICG our structural requirements and expanded trend is consolidation, creating firms of since 2002 and played key roles in the our Luxembourg operations to maintain significant size with a major public market development of the asset management access to our European client base.
We franchise complemented by independent, business as our leading investor in European remain committed to our European heritage smaller specialist firms.
In this market we corporates: a client relationship manager: whilst at the same time expanding our North are a specialist active manager, managing and in the diversification of asset classes.
We do not primarily closed end funds in private The Board having considered all options anticipate the need for any other significant markets.
We believe this positions us and building on our detailed succession organisational change and have no intention well for growth.
planning chose Benot as Chief Executive of moving our UK or head office operations and Chief Investment Officer because from London.
of his demonstrated leadership, strong track record, in-depth knowledge of The success of ICG depends on expertise ICGs business and his wide respect in across the investment, distribution and the industry.
This choice will also support infrastructure teams, and I would like to continuity of strategy.
thank all of our staff for their contribution to our business over the course of the year.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 3 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEVIN PARRY Chairman Non Executive Directors The Boards new policy is to recommend Staff compensation We recruited two Non Executive Directors a dividend pay-out of 80-100% of the The Remuneration Committee has in the year.
Rusty Nelligan, formerly a post-tax profit of the Fund Management developed a new remuneration policy, which senior PwC audit partner, joined the Company FMC.
The annual quantum will does not increase the proportion of profit Board in September 2016 and succeeded be judged in the light of contemporary paid as bonuses to staff but simplifies a me as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
trading, regulatory capital and debt rating number of aspects of the relevant schemes.
In March 2017, we also welcomed Virginia considerations.
In accordance with current Further details are in the Remuneration Holmes to the Board, who has a wealth practice, the interim dividend will equate Committee report on page 69. of asset management industry experience to a third of the prior year total dividend.
as both an Executive and Non Executive The dividend policy is also progressive, Outlook Director.
Virginia has joined the meaning that absent major adverse ICGs strategy and operational focus will Remuneration Committee.
circumstances, the dividend will at least continue to increase diversification by asset be maintained and more normally increased class and geography.
Our track record and a Following this years AGM, the Board will year on year.
We anticipate the FMC profits commitment to strong risk-aware investment comprise two Executive Directors and six will grow as a proportion of the total performance gives our institutional clients Non Executive Directors, of which 25% of profits but in the next few years, until FMC confidence to place more money with ICG, all Directors are female.
We are committed profits can cover our pay-out policy, we will providing a strong foundation for continued to increasing gender balance and diversity continue to draw on Investment Company growth in assets under management and fee throughout the Group, not just at Board IC profits to comply with our progressive based revenue.
level, but have more to do over a sustained dividend policy.
We currently anticipate period of time to make further progress.
In a world of heightened geo-political recommending growing the dividend uncertainty, our balance sheet is exposed per share by 6-8% per annum.
Profit distribution to volatility of valuations but it is prudently It is against the backdrop of continued The Board spent time considering financed by equity and debt.
The long term delivery against our strategic objectives the returns to shareholders and staff nature of our fund management business and strong cash generation that the Board compensation during the year.
provides stability of income and visibility recommends substantially increasing the of growing contractual income streams.
Dividend final ordinary dividend for the year to 19.5 Over the last three years, the Board reduced The strategic report, on pages 2 to 38, has pence per share.
This makes a total for the the equity in use and has returned over been approved by the Board of Directors year of 27.0p 2016: 23.0p, an increase of 0.8bn of capital to shareholders.
The Board and is signed on its behalf by: 17% on the prior year.
The proposed full year will continue to focus on the efficient use dividend is covered 2.9 times based on total of capital and will maintain its focus on profit and equates to 128% of post-tax FMC KEVIN PARRY achieving return on equity in excess of 13% profits.
We continue to make available the Chairman over an investment cycle.
We recognise dividend reinvestment plan.
24 May 2017 that buoyant or stressed market conditions The Board believes these capital and will impact the capital requirements of dividend policies reflect shareholders the Group and are therefore committed desire for transparency, sustainability to a capital management approach which and regular real growth in cash returns.
ensures sufficient capital through all points in the cycle.
The Board has determined that its existing dividend policy should be updated to distribute a higher proportion of profits to shareholders in line with the transformation to a business model which is more stable and predictable than in the past.
