Strategic Report Business Review performance and emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
Business Model The portfolio does not set out to reproduce the index and there Business and Status will be periods when performance diverges significantly from the The Company is an investment company within the meaning of benchmark.
section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that as an investment trust.
Investment trusts are UK public listed long term investment considerations merit the Company taking a companies and their shares are traded on the London Stock geared position.
Apart from in exceptional market conditions the Exchange.
They invest in a portfolio of assets in order to spread Company will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of risk.
The Company has a fixed amount of share capital although, borrowing, this takes the level of gearing beyond 30% calculated subject to shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies its own shares or issue shares.
The price of the Companys shares AIC guidelines.
In any event, the Company will not exceed the is determined, like other listed shares, by supply and demand.
limit on borrowings set out in its Articles of Association, which The Company has been approved as an investment trust by HM provide that the amount of all the Companys borrowings shall Revenue & Customs subject to the Company continuing to meet not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the shareholders, exceed one half of the aggregate issued and fully Company has continued to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to paid share capital and capital reserves of the Company and, in comply with the ongoing requirements of Section 1158 of the addition, that the Company may from time to time borrow for Corporation Tax Act 2010. temporary purposes sums not exceeding 20% of the Companys The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF for the issued and fully paid share capital.
purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers The Managers Core Investment Beliefs with respect to the Directive.
Company are set out on page 17.
Investment Objective Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an investment trust.
in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and in the The objective is to maximise total return from a portfolio of long Managers Review on pages 11 to 16.
A detailed analysis of the term investments chosen on a global basis enabling the Company Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 18 to 23. to provide capital and dividend growth.
Liquidity Policy Investment Policy The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of Investment is predominantly in equities.
The number of equity shareholders to manage discount premium volatility.
Whilst the holdings will typically range between 50 and 100 and the portfolio Board believes that the primary driver of discounts over the longer can be relatively concentrated.
Achieving diversification is a term is performance, the relationship between the Companys requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained NAV and share price can be impacted in the shorter term by an approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to imbalance of buyers and sellers in the market.
geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Portfolio The Board does not have formal discount or premium targets at concentration and levels of diversity are monitored by the Board which shares will be bought back or sold respectively, as it on a regular basis.
The maximum investment in any one holding is believes that the announcement of specific targets is likely to limited to 8% of total assets at the time of purchase.
hinder rather than help the successful execution of a buyback A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is issuance policy.
However it will undertake to aid the efficient paid to short term market trends when deciding strategy.
This functioning of the market in its shares in normal market patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to conditions, to act when such a significant imbalance in supply shareholders long term advantage.
An average holding period for and demand for the Companys shares exists.
investments of five years or more is targeted.
In furtherance of this policy, during the year the Company bought The major part of the portfolio will be held in quoted equities with back a total of 7,005,000 shares into treasury.
Investment may also be made in fixed interest and 11 May 2017, no further shares were bought back.
During securities, convertible securities, funds, unquoted entities and the year the Company sold 53,050,000 shares from treasury at a other assets based on the individual investment case.
The premium to the net asset value.
Between 1 April and 11 May maximum amount which may be invested in companies not listed 2017, a further 13,800,000 shares were sold from treasury at a on a public market shall not exceed 25 per cent of the total premium to net asset value.
assets of the Company, measured at the time of purchase.
In order to implement this strategy again over the coming year, With prior approval of the Board, the Company may use the Directors will seek the relevant authorities from shareholders derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management for at the forthcoming AGM.
the purpose of reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk To prevent substantial demand for the Companys shares pushing in its investment portfolio, including protection against currency them to trade at a significant premium to the underlying NAV, the risk and for investment purposes.
The maximum permitted Board will again seek shareholder authority to allot equity investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate securities, or sell treasury shares, for cash without having to offer is 15% of gross assets.
such shares to existing shareholders pro-rata to their existing The Company aims to achieve a greater return than the FTSE holdings, up to a total amount representing approximately 10 per All-World Index in sterling terms over a five year rolling period or cent.
of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share capital.
This benchmark is a reference point for considering Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 07 Strategic Report Having regard to guidance previously received from the UKLA and During the year the US$165 million 1 year revolving loan with consistent with the approach adopted in previous years, the The Royal Bank of Scotland plc RBS was re-financed with a Directors wish to ensure that any such sale of Ordinary Shares one year revolving loan with RBS and the US$200 million held in treasury or issue of new Ordinary Shares will not result in 2 year loan with National Australia Bank NAB was re-financed an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules by virtue of the UKLA with a revolving US$200 million 2 year loan with NAB.
determining that net asset value should be calculated on the Subsequent to the year end, on 6 April 2017 the Company issued basis of debt valued at par value, instead of the general market the following private placement unsecured loan notes: understanding that net asset value is determined on the basis of 45 million at a coupon of 3.05% maturing on 7 April 2042 debt valued at fair value.
The Directors will therefore also seek to renew the authority previously granted to issue shares at a 30 million at a coupon of 3.30% maturing on 6 April 2044 discount to net asset value with debt at par value, in order to 30 million at a coupon of 3.12% maturing on 6 April 2047. continue to protect against any such inadvertent breach.
The A further unsecured loan note was agreed for funding on 30 Directors wish to stress that they will in no circumstances seek to September 2020 to refinance the 20 million 814% stepped issue Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares held in treasury interest debenture stock maturing on 30 September 2020: for cash at a price below the net asset value per share on the basis of debt valued at fair value.
20 million at a coupon of 3.65% maturing on 6 April 2044.
The Directors are further seeking shareholders approval at the Additionally, the RBS US$165 million one year revolving loan was Annual General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to refinanced on 11 April 2017 with a US$40 million one year 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue from the date of revolving loan with RBS.
grant of the authority to the date of the Annual General Meeting in Principal Risks 2018.
Such purchases will only be made at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
Any such shares which are bought As explained on page 31 there is a process for identifying, back may be held in treasury and may subsequently then either evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Company on a be sold for cash or cancelled.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that Performance would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of or liquidity.
A description of these risks and how they are being performance measures to assess the Companys success in managed or mitigated is set out below: achieving its objectives.
Financial Risk the Companys assets consist mainly of listed Key Performance Indicators securities and its principal financial risks are therefore market related and include market risk comprising currency risk, interest The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the rate risk and other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An progress and performance of the Company over time are explanation of those risks and how they are managed is established industry measures and are as follows: contained in note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 56 to the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after 61.
To mitigate this risk, the Board considers at each meeting deducting borrowings at fair value : various metrics including portfolio concentration, regional and the movement in the share price: industrial sector weightings, top and bottom stock contributors to performance and contribution to performance by industrial sector.
the movement of net asset value and share price performance The Managers provide the rationale for stock selection decisions compared to the Benchmark: and both the investment strategy and portfolio risk are formally the premium discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : considered in detail annually.
ongoing charges ratio: Unlisted Investments the Companys risk could be increased revenue return: and by its investment in unlisted investments.
These assets may be more difficult to buy or sell, so changes in their prices may dividend per share.
An explanation of these measures can be found in the Glossary of To mitigate this risk, the Board considers the unlisted investments Terms on page 71. in the context of the overall investment strategy and provides The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on guidance to the Managers on the maximum exposure to unlisted pages 5, 6 and 24. investments.
The investment policy limits the amount which may be invested in unlisted companies to 25 per cent of the total In addition to the above, the Board considers performance assets of the Company, measured at time of purchase.
against other companies within the AIC Global Sector.
Investment Strategy Risk pursuing an investment strategy to Borrowings fulfil the Companys objective which the market perceives to be There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and unattractive or inappropriate, or an ineffective implementation of an quoted on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are attractive or appropriate strategy, may lead to reduced returns for given on page 54 and pages 59 to 61.
In addition, loan facilities shareholders and, as a result, a decreased demand for the are in place which are also shown on page 53.
This may lead to the Companys shares trading at a widening discount to their Net Asset Value.
To mitigate this risk, 08 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report the Board regularly reviews and monitors the Companys objective are in quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Further and investment policy and strategy, the investment portfolio and its information on leverage can be found on page 66 and the performance, the level of discount premium to Net Asset Value at Glossary of Terms on page 71. which the shares trade and movements in the share register.
Political Risk Political developments are closely monitored and Discount Risk the discount premium at which the Companys considered by the Board.
The Board has noted the results of the shares trade relative to its Net Asset Value can change.
The risk of UK referendum on continuing membership of the European Union a widening discount is that it may undermine investor confidence and the announcement by the Scottish Government that it will in the Company.
To manage this risk, the Board monitors the level seek to hold a second referendum on Scottish independence.
of discount premium at which the shares trade and the Company Whilst there is considerable uncertainty at present, the Board will has authority to buy back its existing shares when deemed by the continue to monitor developments as they occur and assess the Board to be in the best interests of the Company and its potential consequences for the Companys future activities.
Viability Statement Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Corporate regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment trust Governance Code that the Directors assess the prospects of the companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could Company over a defined period, the Directors have elected to do lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, so over a period of 10 years.
The Directors continue to believe financial penalties, a qualified audit report or the Company being this period to be appropriate as the investment objective of the subject to tax on capital gains.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Giffords Company is aimed at investors with a 5 to 10 year investment Business Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance Departments horizon and, subject to the assumptions detailed below, the provide regular reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords Directors do not expect there to be any significant change to the monitoring programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose current principal risks facing Scottish Mortgage nor to the disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such adequacy of the controls in place to effectively mitigate those circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special risks.
Furthermore, the Directors do not reasonably envisage any circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Shareholder change in strategy or any events which would prevent the documents and announcements, including the Companys Company from operating over a 10 year period.
published Interim and Annual Report and Financial Statements, are subject to stringent review processes, and procedures are in Assumption 1 place to ensure adherence to the Transparency Directive and the There is no significant adverse change to the regulatory Market Abuse Directive with reference to inside information.
environment and tax treatment enjoyed by UK investment trusts.
Custody and Depositary Risk safe custody of the Companys Assumption 2 assets may be compromised through control failures by the The Company does not suffer sustained inadequate relative Depositary, including breaches of cyber security.
To mitigate this investment performance with the current or any successor fund risk, the Board receives six monthly reports from the Depositary managers such that the Company fails to maintain a supportive confirming safe custody of the Companys assets held by the shareholder base.
Cash and portfolio holdings are independently Using the long term expectations of shareholders as the main reconciled to the Custodians records by the Managers.
The determinant of the chosen assessment period, the Directors have Custodians audited internal controls reports are reviewed by conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks and Baillie Giffords Internal Audit Department and a summary of the uncertainties facing the Company as detailed on pages 8 and 9 key points is reported to the Audit Committee and any concerns and in particular the impact of market risk where a significant fall investigated.
In addition, the existence of assets is subject to in global equity markets would adversely impact the value of the annual external audit.
In reviewing the viability of the Company, the Operational Risk failure of Baillie Giffords systems or those of Directors have considered the key characteristics of the Company other third party service providers could lead to an inability to which include an investment portfolio that takes account of provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation different degrees of liquidity, with moderate levels of debt and a of assets.
To mitigate this risk, Baillie Gifford has a comprehensive business model where substantially all of the essential services business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of required are outsourced to third party providers: this outsourcing the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
structure allows key service providers to be replaced at relatively The Board reviews Baillie Giffords Report on Internal Controls and short notice where necessary.
the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by The Directors have also considered the Companys leverage and Baillie Gifford on behalf of the Board.
liquidity in the context of fixed term debentures, private placement Leverage Risk the Company may borrow money for investment loan notes and short term bank loans, the revenue projections, purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will the readily realisable nature of the portfolio which could be sold to magnify the impact of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not provide funding if necessary and its stable closed end structure.
renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay The Directors have concluded that these sustainable long term borrowings.
To mitigate this risk, all borrowings require the prior characteristics provide a high degree of flexibility to the Company approval of the Board and leverage levels are discussed by the and afford an ability to react so as to mitigate both controllable Board and Managers at every meeting.
Covenant levels are and most external uncontrollable risks and events in order to monitored regularly.
The majority of the Companys investments ensure the long term prosperity of the business.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 09 Strategic Report Based upon the Companys processes for monitoring operating costs, share price premium discount, the Managers compliance with the investment objective, the portfolio risk profile, leverage, counterparty exposure, liquidity risk and financial controls, the Board believes that the prospects of the Company are sound and the Directors are able to confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that it will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period of at least 10 years.
Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues The Board recognises the requirement to provide information about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive and all its functions are outsourced, there are no disclosures to be made in respect of employees, human rights and community issues.
Gender Representation The Board comprises six Directors, four male and two female.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 31.
Environmental, Social and Governance Policy Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 32.
The Company considers that it does not fall within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged to make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any event, the Company considers its supply chains to be of low risk as its suppliers are typically professional advisers.
A statement by the Managers under the Act has been published on the Managers website at www.
Future Developments of the Company The outlook for the Company is set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers Report on pages 11 to 16.
