JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 08:50 Page 19 Strategic Report of up to 8%, totalling no more than 40% of the Companys gross Business Review assets.
Thereafter a maximum of 3% of gross assets may be held The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with the in any one investment.
ability to assess how the Directors have performed their duty to - Capital growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend growth promote the success of the Company during the year under at least in line with inflation.
- Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to increase Objective and Strategy of the Company potential returns to shareholders.
Such gearing will be The Mercantile Investment Trust plc is an investment trust long-term in nature and will operate within a range of 10% company that has a premium listing on the London Stock net cash to 20% geared.
Its objective is to achieve long term capital growth from - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross a portfolio of UK medium and smaller companies.
The Company assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the Manager to including investment trusts.
The Board has determined an investment policy and related guidelines and limits, as described - The Company will not invest more than 10% of assets in below.
companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
Structure of the Company The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and Performance regulations including UK company law, UK Financial Reporting In the year to 31st January 2017, the Company produced a total Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure Guidance and return to shareholders of 4.3% and a total return on net assets of Transparency Rules, taxation law and the Companys own Articles 6.1%.
This compares with the return on the Companys of Association.
At 31st January 2017, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 1,787 million.
The The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Investment Managers Report on pages6to 10 includes a review Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been approved of developments during the year as well as information on by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust for the investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation on Total Return, Revenue and Dividends capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that Gross total return for the year amounted to 101.6 million 2016: approval will not continue to be retained.
The Company is not a 234.2 million and net total return after deducting interest, close company for taxation purposes.
management expenses and taxation amounted to 81.7 million A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the 2016: 213.8 million.
Distributable income for the year Chairmans Statement on pages3to 5, and in the Investment amounted to 49.3 million 2016: 49.6 million.
The Directors Managers Report on pages6to 10. have declared quarterly interim dividends totalling 46.0p 2016: 43.0p per ordinary share for the year which totalled 41.4 million Investment Policies and Risk Management 2016: 41.3 million.
The year end revenue reserve after allowing In order to achieve its objective and to seek to manage risk, the for these dividends will amount to 36.7 million Companys business model is to invest in a diversified portfolio 2016: 28.8 million.
and it employs a Manager with a strong focus on research that Key Performance Indicators KPIs enables it to identify what it believes to be the most attractive stocks in the market.
The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and smaller companies.
In order to The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk by imposing monitor performance against this objective, the Board uses a various investment limits and restrictions.
These limits and number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of restrictions may be varied at any time by the Board at its the Company.
The principal KPIs are: discretion.
Performance against the benchmark index Investment Restrictions and Guidelines This is the most important KPI by which performance is - The Company invests in medium and smaller companies which judged.
Please refer to the graph headed Ten Year are listed mainly on the London Stock Exchange.
- At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any individual stock is 8% of total assets.
The Company may hold five positions The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 19 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 06 04 2017 11:23 Page 20 Strategic Report continued Performance against the Companys peers A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board also monitors the performance The Company did not issue any shares during the year and has not relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
issued any shares since the year end.
Performance attribution Board Diversity The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess At 31st January 2017, there were six male Directors and one how the Company achieved its performance relative to its female Director on the Board.
The Company has no employees.
benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 28.
Companys relative performance of the various components Discount such as stock selection and sector allocation.
Details of the The Board monitors closely the level of the Companys share price attribution analysis for the year ended 31st January 2017 are discount to net asset value.
During the year the discount increased given in the Investment Managers Report on page6.
from 10.6% to 12.5% on the basis of a cum income calculation Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share with debt at par.
Several different methodologies are currently The Board operates a share repurchase programme that seeks employed by different bodies to assess net asset value and to enhance value and address imbalances in supply and consequently different conclusions are drawn which can be demand of the Companys shares within the market and difficult to interpret.
thereby reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount The Company reports its performance Financial Highlights, to NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
Please refer to Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers report etc.
to the graph headed Discount History on page 12. shareholders on a cum income NAV with debt at par value basis.
For the NAV stated in the Companys monthly factsheets and on its Ongoing Charges website, debt is valued at its fair value.
The ongoing charges represent the Companys management The AIC, for its industry statistics, stipulates the NAV as fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs, Shareholder Funds, both capital and income, expressed as an expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net amount per ordinary share.
Shareholder Funds are the net value of assets during the year.
The ongoing charges for the year total assets having deducted prior charges at their fair not par ended 31st January 2017 were 0.48% 2016: 0.48%.
The AIC does not however prescribe a methodology for the Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison basis of calculation of fair value.
Income for the current financial of the Companys ongoing charges and its main expenses with year is included dividends are deducted from the income value on those of its peers.
the day that shares go ex-dividend.
This is equivalent to the cum Share Capital income NAV with debt at fair value as calculated and published by During the year, the Company repurchased a total of 8,976,621 ourselves, via the Regulatory News Service, on a daily basis.
shares, amounting to 9.4% of issued share capital at the The fair value of the Companys debentures is calculated using beginning of the year.
Of those shares 1,507,822 2016: a discounted cash flow technique which applies the yield from 1,747,595 were repurchased for a total consideration of a similarly dated gilt to the debentures issued by the Company 25,073,000 2016: 27,955,000 and cancelled.
The balance of and adds to that a margin based on the five year average for the 7,468,799 shares were repurchased for a total consideration of AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
As the shares were Using this calculation, i. e. NAV cum income with debt at fair value, repurchased at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV the discount would be shown to have increased over the course of they enhanced the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Company the year from 7.4% to 8.6%.
has repurchaseda further 1,816,868 shares since the year end as at 5th April 2017.
20 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 08:50 Page 21 Strategic Report continued requirements more appropriately relate to JPMF and JPMAM.
Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights JPMorgans statement on Human Rights can be found on the Issues following website: www.
com corporate The Company has no employees.
Since many of its functions are About-JPMC ab-human-rights.
htm carried out by employees of the Manager and its affiliate, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM, it notes the Principal Risks JPMAM policy statements in respect of social and environmental The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust issues.
assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Social, Environmental and Human Rights viability, solvency or liquidity.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a risk economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors risks fall broadly under the following categories: have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs strategy, for example sector allocation or the level of gearing, environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked may lead to underperformance against the Companys with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in the environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of manages these risks by diversification of investments through Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their and reported on by the Manager.
JPMF provides the Directors processes when making stock selection decisions and promoting with timely and accurate management information, including ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the performance data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, principles is available on request.
liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with The Manager has implemented a policy which seeks to restrict the Investment Managers, who attend all Board meetings, and investments in securities issued by companies that have been reviews data which show statistical measures of the Companys identified by an independent third party provider as being risk profile.
The Investment Managers employ the Companys involved in the manufacture, production or supply of cluster gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
munitions, depleted uranium ammunition and armour and or anti-personnel mines.
Shareholders can obtain further details Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an on the policy by contacting the Manager.
investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
Details Greenhouse Gas Emissions of the Companys approval are given under Structure of the The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or Company above.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon it might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, footprint.
JPMAM is a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
gains within the Companys portfolio could be subject to JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator Principles on Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
monitored continually by JPMF and the results reported to the The Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed The MSA requires companies to prepare a slavery and human on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and trafficking statement for each financial year of the organisation.
Disclosure Guidance & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of As the Company has no employees and does not supply goods the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the and services, the MSA does not apply directly to it.
The MSA The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 21 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 08:50 Page 22 Strategic Report continued Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Long Term Viability Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Taking account of the Companys current position, the principal Companys shares being suspended from listing which in turn risks that it faces and their potential impact on its future would breach Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services development and prospects, the Directors have assessed the of its Company Secretary, JPMF, to ensure compliance with The prospects of the Company, to the extent that they are able to do Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
so, over the next five years.
They have made that assessment by considering those principal risks, the Companys investment Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of objective and strategy, the investment capabilities of the Manager the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best and the current outlook for the UK economy and equity market.
practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on In determining the appropriate period of assessment the Directors pages 27 to 31. had regard to their view that, given the Companys objective of achieving long term capital growth, shareholders should consider Operational and Cybercrime: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMFs the Company as a long term investment proposition.
This is accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians consistent with advice provided by investment advisers, that records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of investors should consider investing in equities for a minimum of the Companys financial position.
This includes the risk of five years.
Thus the Directors consider five years to be an cybercrime and the consequent potential threat to security appropriate time horizon to assess the Companys viability.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by JPMF and its associates and the key The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that elements designed to provide effective risk management and the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its internal control are included within the Risk Management and liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of assessment.
Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance statement on pages 30 and 31.
By order of the Board The threat of cyber attack, in all its guises, is regarded as at Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of least as important as more traditional physical threats to JPMorgan Funds Limited, business continuity and security.
The Company benefits Company Secretary directly or indirectly from all elements of JPMorgans Cyber 6th April 2017 Security programme.
The information technology controls around the physical security of JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and security of its trading applications are tested by independent reporting accountants and reported on every six months against the Audit and Assurance Faculty AAF standard.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Bank counterparties are subject to regular credit analysis by the Manager and regular consideration at meetings of the Board.
In addition the Board receives regular reports on the Managers monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share transactions carried out by the Company.
Further details are disclosed in note 24 on pages 57 to 61.
