Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Business Review Sports Fashion Sports Fashion has had an exceptional year with Further afield, we expanded our presence in Malaysia operating profits before exceptional items increasing during the period with two additional JD stores in Kuala by 50% to 245.0 million 2016: 162.9 million.
Like for Lumpur and a fourth store, also in Kuala Lumpur, like store sales growth in the period across our opened after the year end.
These are complemented by European fascias excluding those businesses acquired the acquisition from our joint venture partner Stream in the year was over 10% which was very pleasing Enterprises of 20 small multi-brand stores trading as given the strong like for like growth achieved in the Sports Empire, Revolution and The Marathon Shop.
It would be unreasonable to We have also acquired 32 stores trading as Glue and expect like for like sales growth to be maintained at this Superglue in Australia.
This business and its management level for a further year although we are confident of our will provide the platform to open JD in Australia with ability to exploit the opportunities that continue to development works ongoing for the first store which exist domestically and, increasingly, internationally.
will be at the Melbourne Central Shopping Centre.
This store will open in Spring 2017 and we anticipate further There has been further progress in Europe during the openings elsewhere in Australia during the year.
period with new stores in all of our existing territories, including larger space flagship stores in Cologne and We are pleased with the positive performance in our Brussels, complemented by two acquisitions: principal fashion businesses, in particular Tessuti, which is gaining momentum and regional presence following In March we acquired the trade and store assets of the acquisition of stores which traded as Infinities, the Aktiesport and Perry Sport retail fascias in the Aspecto, ML Clothing and Xile.
Mainline Menswear, Netherlands from the trustee in bankruptcy of which is an online retailer of premium fashion brands, Unlimited Sports Group BV.
Our initial focus has has also performed exceptionally well with the Scotts been to stabilise the distressed position by trading business maintaining its profitability after strong through a disjointed stock position, recommencing growth in the previous year.
We would anticipate the supply chain, determining the optimal future further positive developments in our Fashion businesses store portfolio and rationalising an unsustainable in the current financial year as we build on our previous operational infrastructure.
Significant progress has investments to create strong relationships with the been made in all of these areas, although it is very major global premium brands.
much an ongoing exercise and we would not expect these fascias, which are complementary rather than The customers in our core JD fascia are extremely a competitor to the JD fascia, to make a significant digitally aware with a high propensity to use social contribution in the current financial year.
We have media in their purchasing decisions.
Consequently, begun to address the previous underinvestment in we continue to invest heavily in creating a technology the store portfolio with a major refurbishment of the rich multichannel environment which not only provides Perry Sport store on Kalverstraat in Amsterdam and the customer with information about the product but a new store for Aktiesport in the Zuidplein Shopping also helps increase the desire to purchase.
This digitally Centre in Rotterdam.
integrated approach gives positive benefits to our In July we acquired 12 stores in Portugal which stores as well as our trading websites with online sales previously traded as The Athletes Foot.
These stores now representing 13.2% of total fascia sales 2016: have now been converted to JD.
10.4% in JDs principal UK and Ireland market.
Elsewhere in Europe, our Chausport and Sprinter The overall gross margin in Sports Fashion is slightly businesses have also both benefitted from the higher than the previous year reflecting continuing low continuation of the favourable market trends and have markdown levels and the impact of the stronger Euro traded positively in the period.
We have also recently on JDs Euro denominated businesses where product is agreed a Memorandum of Understanding with Sonae sourced and distributed from the UK.
This sets out the basis for the creation of an sterling against the US Dollar after the Brexit vote will Iberian Sports Retail Group combining the Groups cause some headwinds on margin in 2017 but, working existing businesses in Spain and Portugal with the with our global brand partners, we believe we are in a Sport Zone business of Sonae, which is one of the reasonable position to mitigate against these.
largest sports retailers in the region.
Strategic Report Business Review continued Outdoor The Outdoor fascias have made encouraging progress in the year delivering an operating profit for the first time with an overall segment operating profit before exceptional items of 1.2m 2016: loss of 4.0 million.
The result in the Blacks and Millets business has improved as we see the positive benefits from actions taken previously to simplify the operational leadership, improve the camping offer and reduce the level of markdowns.
The smaller Tiso business, which operates largely in Scotland, has also delivered a positive result and having dealt with a number of legacy underperforming stores now has a better platform from which to develop.
Go Outdoors, which we acquired towards the end of the year, has not had a material impact on the current year results.
We are confident that this acquisition will enhance our overall Outdoor offer in the longer term although investment in core operational infrastructure, principally IT and Logistics, will be required to enable the business to reach its full potential.
We also believe that there will be opportunities for the Go Outdoors business to leverage from the Groups strength and considerable experience in merchandising management.
Margins were improved over the full year with reduced levels of discounting although these were negated slightly by lower margins in the Go Outdoor business.
We continually strive for further improvements in margins but the breadth of supply from the key Outdoor brands into the market and the wide availability of vertically sourced product from both specialist and non-specialist retailers means that Outdoor will inevitably remain a competitive sector.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 10 April 2017 61 61 61 Strategic Report
