48 48 Financial s Financial st tat atements ements Financial s Financial st tat atements ements 49 49 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Meggitt PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Meggitt PLC for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to and the related notes.
These group financial statements have been the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, of Meggitt PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
in the group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been In our opinion: prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into year then ended: whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements Regulation: and give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the group financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referenced from the Principal Activities and Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the  LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions Reading is not disclosed.
3 March 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises of the Chairmans Statement, Meggitt at a Glance, Delivering Group Strategy, Market Review, Business Review, Corporate Responsibility, Board of Directors, Risks and Uncertainties, Report of the Directors, Directors Statement on Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report and the other information listed in the contents to the Annual Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
