Report of the Auditor INDEPENDENT AUDITOR REPORT TO THE MEMBERS governance procedures or its risks and control procedures.
OF MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS PLC We read the other information contained in the Annual Report We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements the financial statements of Millennium & Copthorne statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Hotels plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash not extend to any other information.
Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by Auditing Practices Board.
Report set out on pages 55 to 62.
An audit includes examination on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the part of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Companys members those matters we are required to state to made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest statements, and on whether the accounting policies are appropriate extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable AUDITOR assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial presentation of information in the financial statements and the part statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of OPINION Directors Responsibilities on page 48.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report IAS Regulation: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information December 2007: given in the Directors Report includes that specific information the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the presented in the financial, operating and risk factors sections of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and section of the Directors Report on page 46. the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Registered Auditor the 2003 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the 8 Salisbury Square Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if London EC4Y 8BB it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate 19 February 2008 64 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
