Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Misys plc for We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the year ended 31 May 2007, which comprise the consolidated consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the statement of cash flows, the statement of recognised income Chairmans statement, Chief Executive review, Operational and expense, the accounting policies and the related notes.
review, People and corporate responsibility, Financial review, These Group financial statements have been prepared under Board of Directors, Senior Management team, Directors report, the accounting policies set out therein.
Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Five year financial record and Investor We have reported separately on the parent company financial information.
We consider the implications for our report if we statements of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2007 and on become aware of any apparent misstatements or material the information in the Directors remuneration report that is inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our described as having been audited.
responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International and the Group financial statements in accordance with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do information and explanations which we considered necessary in not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is assurance that the Group financial statements are free from shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Opinion accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the In our opinion: IAS Regulation.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the Group financial statements.
The information given in the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of Directors report includes that specific information presented the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2007 and of its in the Financial review that is cross referred from the Business profit and cash flows for the year then ended: review section of the Directors report.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not the IAS Regulation: and received all the information and explanations we require for the information given in the Directors report is consistent our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors with the Group financial statements.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 London FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing 24 July 2007 Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
60 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing
