Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Misys plc on the parent company accounts We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2007 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Company balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing company financial statements have been prepared under the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the information in the Directors remuneration report that is parent company financial statements and the part of the described as having been audited.
Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements We have reported separately on the group financial statements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company of Misys plc for the year ended 31 May 2007. financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the parent company We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and information and explanations which we considered necessary United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the assurance that the parent company financial statements and Statement of Directors responsibilities.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory information in the parent company financial statements and requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in Opinion accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and In our opinion: for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any the parent company financial statements give a true and fair other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as in writing.
at 31 May 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act parent company financial statements and the part of the 1985: and Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly the information given in the Directors report is consistent prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report with the parent company financial statements.
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial  LLP statements.
The information given in the Directors report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors includes that specific information presented in the Financial London review that is cross referred from the Business review section 24 July 2007 of the Directors report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Chief Executive review, Operational review, People and corporate responsibility, Financial review, Board of Directors, Senior management team, Directors report, Corporate governance report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Five year financial record and Investor information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 93 Financial statements
