Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder Independent auditors and financial information report to the members of review Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the parent company We report to you our opinion as to We planned and performed our audit financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers whether the parent company financial so as to obtain all the information and plc for the year ended 29 September 2007 statements give a true and fair view and explanations which we considered which comprise a balance sheet and the whether the parent company financial necessary in order to provide us with related notes 1 to 14.
These parent statements and the part of the Directors sufficient evidence to give reasonable company financial statements have been remuneration report to be audited have assurance that the parent company prepared under the accounting policies been properly prepared in accordance financial statements and the part of set out therein.
We have also audited with the Companies Act 1985.
We also the Directors remuneration report the information in the Directors report to you whether in our opinion the to be audited are free from material remuneration report that is described information given in the parent company misstatement, whether caused by as having been audited.
Directors report is consistent with the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated We have reported separately on the the overall adequacy of the presentation Group financial statements of Mitchells In addition we report to you if, in our of information in the parent company & Butlers plc for the year ended opinion, the Company has not kept financial statements and the part of 29 September 2007. proper accounting records, if we have the Directors remuneration report to not received all the information and be audited.
This report is made solely to the explanations we require for our audit, Companys members, as a body, in or if information specified by law Opinion accordance with Section 235 of the regarding Directors remuneration and In our opinion: Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work other transactions is not disclosed.
the parent company financial statements has been undertaken so that we might give a true and fair view, state to the Companys members those We read other information contained in accordance with United Kingdom matters we are required to state to them in the Annual Report and consider Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, in an auditors report and for no other whether it is consistent with the audited of the state of the Companys affairs as purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted parent company financial statements.
at 29 September 2007: by law, we do not accept or assume The other information comprises only the parent company financial statements responsibility to anyone other than the the Operating and financial review, the and the part of the Directors Company and the Companys members as Directors report, the Corporate governance remuneration report to be audited have a body, for our audit work, for this report, statement, the Audit Committee report been properly prepared in accordance or for the opinions we have formed.
and the unaudited part of the Directors with the Companies Act 1985: and remuneration report.
We consider the the information given in the Directors Respective responsibilities of implications for our report if we become report is consistent with the parent Directors and auditors aware of any apparent misstatements or company financial statements.
The Directors responsibilities for material inconsistencies with the parent preparing the Annual Report, the company financial statements.
Our Directors remuneration report and responsibilities do not extend to any Ernst & Young LLP the parent company financial statements other information.
Registered auditors in accordance with applicable United London Kingdom law and Accounting Standards Basis of audit opinion 28 November 2007 United Kingdom Generally Accepted We conducted our audit in accordance Accounting Practice are set out in the with International Standards on Auditing Statement of Directors responsibilities.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Our responsibility is to audit the parent examination, on a test basis, of evidence company financial statements and the part relevant to the amounts and disclosures of the Directors remuneration report to in the parent company financial be audited in accordance with relevant statements and the part of the Directors legal and regulatory requirements and remuneration report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing It also includes an assessment of the UK and Ireland.
significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Mitchells & Butlers 91 Annual report and accounts 2007
