Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the Group financial We report to you our opinion as to Basis of audit opinion statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc whether the Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance for the year ended 29 September 2007 give a true and fair view and whether with International Standards on Auditing which comprise the Group income the Group financial statements have UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing statement, the Group statement of been properly prepared in accordance Practices Board.
An audit includes recognised income and expense, the with the Companies Act 1985 and examination, on a test basis, of evidence Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also relevant to the amounts and disclosures in statement and the related notes 1 to 33. report to you whether in our opinion the the Group financial statements.
It also These Group financial statements have information given in the Directors report includes an assessment of the significant been prepared under the accounting is consistent with the financial statements.
estimates and judgments made by the policies set out therein.
The information given in the Directors directors in the preparation of the Group report includes that specific information financial statements, and of whether the We have reported separately on the presented in the Operating and financial accounting policies are appropriate to the parent company financial statements of review that is cross referred from the Groups circumstances, consistently Mitchells & Butlers plc for the year ended Business review section of the Directors applied and adequately disclosed.
29 September 2007 and on the information report.
in the Directors remuneration report that We planned and performed our audit is described as having been audited.
In addition we report to you if, in our so as to obtain all the information and opinion, we have not received all the explanations which we considered necessary This report is made solely to the information and explanations we require in order to provide us with sufficient Companys members, as a body, in for our audit, or if information specified evidence to give reasonable assurance accordance with Section 235 of the by law regarding Directors remuneration that the Group financial statements are Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and other transactions is not disclosed.
free from material misstatement, whether has been undertaken so that we might caused by fraud or other irregularity or state to the Companys members those We review whether the Corporate error.
In forming our opinion we also matters we are required to state to them governance statement reflects the evaluated the overall adequacy of the in an auditors report and for no other Companys compliance with the nine presentation of information in the Group purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted provisions of the 2003 Combined Code financial statements.
by law, we do not accept or assume specified for our review by the Listing responsibility to anyone other than the Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Opinion Company and the Companys members as and we report if it does not.
We are not In our opinion: a body, for our audit work, for this report, required to consider whether the Boards the Group financial statements give or for the opinions we have formed.
statements on internal control cover all a true and fair view, in accordance with risks and controls, or form an opinion on IFRSs as adopted by the European Respective responsibilities of Directors the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Union, of the state of the Groups and auditors governance procedures or its risk and affairs as at 29 September 2007 and The Directors responsibilities for control procedures.
of its loss for the year then ended: preparing the Annual Report and the the Group financial statements have Group financial statements in accordance We read other information contained been properly prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and in the Annual report and consider with the Companies Act 1985 and International Financial Reporting whether it is consistent with the audited Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Group financial statements.
The other the information given in the Directors European Union are set out in the information comprises only the Operating report is consistent with the Group Statement of directors responsibilities.
and financial review, the Directors report, financial statements.
the Corporate governance statement, Our responsibility is to audit the Group the Audit Committee report, and financial statements in accordance with the unaudited part of the Directors Ernst & Young LLP relevant legal and regulatory requirements remuneration report.
We consider the Registered auditors and International Standards on Auditing implications for our report if we become London UK and Ireland.
aware of any apparent misstatements 28 November 2007 or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
46 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007
