Independent auditorsreport to the members of MITIE Group PLC We have audited the group financial statements of MITIE Group Basis of audit opinion PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, statement of recognised income and expense and the related of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group Notes 1 to 32.
These group financial statements have been financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the that is described as having been audited.
preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups We have reported separately on the parent company financial circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assurance that the group financial statements and the part companys members those matters we are required to state of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the responsibility to anyone other than the company and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, In our opinion: the Directors remuneration report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and Responsibilities.
of its profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements of the IAS Regulation: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the part of the Directors remuneration report described We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial as having been audited has been properly prepared in statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the information given in the Directors report is consistent the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and with the group financial statements.
whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Deloitte & Touche LLP you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information given in the Directors report includes that specific Bristol, United Kingdom information presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief 18 May 2007 Executives statement, the Group Finance Directors statement, the Operating review and the Corporate governance report that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
50 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
