   Opinion We have audited the accompanying balance sheet and selected notes to In our opinion, the balance sheet and selected notes give a true and the balance sheet of Mondi Limited for the year ended 31 December 2007. fair view of the balance sheet of the company as of 31 December 2007 in accordance with the applicable International Financial Reporting  Standards.
 Deloitte & Touche 2 Pencarrow Crescent The companys directors are responsible for the preparation and fair Audit KZN La Lucia Ridge Office Estate presentation of the balance sheet and selected notes in accordance with Registered Auditors Durban International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required Per C Sagar 4001 by the Companies Act of South Africa.
This responsibility includes: Partner Audit KZN designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free 27 February 2008 from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and National Executive: G G Gelink Chief Executive, A E Swiegers applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting Chief Operating Officer, G M Pinnock Audit, D L Kennedy Tax, estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
L Geeringh Consulting, L Bam Strategy, C R Beukman Finance,  T J Brown Clients & Markets, N T Mtoba Chairman of the Board, An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about J Rhynes Deputy Chairman of the Board the amounts and disclosures in the balance sheet and selected notes.
Regional Leader: G Brazier The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies related to the balance sheet and selected notes used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 121
