  We have audited the parent company financial statements of Mondi plc We read the other information contained in the Annual Report [as for the period ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the balance described in the contents section] and consider whether it is consistent sheet and the related notes 1 to 9.
These parent company financial with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent out therein.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Mondi information outside the Annual Report.
Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been Basisofauditopinion audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information  and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law company financial statements are free from material misstatement, and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the directors responsibility opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statement.
information in the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements Opinion in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with 2007: the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the directors report is consistent with the parent company financial the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared statements.
The information given in the directors report includes in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and that specific information presented in the other sections of the Annual the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Report that is cross referred from the business review section of the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information London and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is 27 February 2008 not disclosed.
116 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007
