   Opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of Mondi Limited for the In our opinion, the Group financial statements present fairly, in all material year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the directors report, respects, the financial position of the Mondi Group as of 31 December combined and consolidated income statement, the combined and 2007, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then consolidated balance sheet, the combined and consolidated cash ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, flow statement and the combined and consolidated statement of and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa.
recognised income and expense for the year then ended, the summary Deloitte & Touche of significant accounting policies and the explanatory notes 2 to 41.
Audit KZN 2 Pencarrow Crescent  Registered Auditors La Lucia Ridge Office Estate Per CA Sagar Durban The companys directors are responsible for the preparation and Partner - Audit KZN 4001 fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required 27 February 2008 by the Companies Act of South Africa.
This responsibility includes: National Executive: G G Gelink Chief Executive, A E Swiegers Chief designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the Operating Officer, G M Pinnock Audit, D L Kennedy Tax, L Geeringh preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free Consulting, L Bam Strategy, C R Beukman Finance, T J Brown from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting Clients & Markets, N T Mtoba Chairman of the Board, J Rhynes and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting Deputy Chairman of the Board estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Group financial Regional Leader: G Brazier statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance A full list of partners and directors is available on request.
with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
52 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007   We have audited the Group financial statements of Mondi plc for the Basisofauditopinion year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the combined and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards consolidated income statement, the combined and consolidated balance on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
sheet, the combined and consolidated cash flow statement, the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to combined and consolidated statement of recognised income and the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the expense and the related notes 1 to 41.
These Group financial statements part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and report that is described as having been audited.
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Mondi plc for the period ended 31 December 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, audited.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion  In our opinion: The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year statement of directors responsibilities.
then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the part of the directors remuneration report described as having statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the information given in the directors report is consistent with the the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been Group financial statements.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information  given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in statements.
The information given in the directors report includes addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as specific information presented in other sections of the annual report that adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as is cross referred from the business review section of the directors report.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined London Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to 27 February 2008 consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Financial statements Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 53
