Independent Auditors Report on the Group Financial Statements to the Members of Antofagasta plc We have audited the Group financial statements of We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Antofagasta plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 financial statements give a true and fair view, whether which comprise the consolidated income statement, the Group financial statements have been properly the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash prepared in accordance with the Companies Act flow statement, the consolidated statement of 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 39.
These the part of the Remuneration Report described as Group financial statements have been prepared under having been audited has been properly prepared in the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also audited the information in the Remuneration Report report to you whether in our opinion the information that is described as having been audited.
given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Antofagasta plc for the year In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have ended 31 December 2007. not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law This report is made solely to the Companys members, regarding Directors remuneration and other as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the transactions is not disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We review whether the Corporate Governance Report members those matters we are required to state to reflects the Companys compliance with the nine them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We are not required to consider whether the Boards work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Respective responsibilities of Directors the Groups corporate governance procedures or its and Auditors risk and control procedures.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We read the other information contained in the Report, the Remuneration Report and the Group Annual Report as described in the contents section financial statements in accordance with applicable law including the unaudited part of the Remuneration and International Financial Reporting Standards Report and consider whether it is consistent with IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out the audited Group financial statements.
We in the statement of Directors responsibilities on consider the implications for our report if we pages 68 and 69. become aware of any apparent misstatements Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial or material inconsistencies with the Group statements and the part of the Remuneration Report financial statements.
Our responsibilities do described as having been audited in accordance with not extend to any further information outside relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the Annual Report.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 76 Basis of audit opinion Separate opinion in relation to IFRS We conducted our audit in accordance with As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland statements, the Group in addition to complying with issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group issued by the International Accounting Standards financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Board.
It also includes an assessment In our opinion the Group financial statements give a of the significant estimates and judgments made by true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the the directors in the preparation of the Group financial state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and of its profit for the year then ended.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered Deloitte & Touche LLP necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group London financial statements and the part of the Remuneration 10 March 2008 Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 77
