qxd 28 2 08 20:48 Page 42 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance statement Board committees The Board has established three committees: namely the remuneration, nominations and audit committees.
Remuneration committee The members of the remuneration committee during 2007 were Gill Barr chair, Bernard Asher, Jon Walden and, following her appointment, Geraldine Gallacher.
The remuneration committees terms of reference are available for review on request and on the Companys website under the investor relations section.
Four meetings were held in the year to cover all elements of the directors remuneration.
A report to shareholders on directors remuneration is shown on pages 34 to 39.
Nominations committee The members of the nominations committee during 2007 were John Morgan chair, Bernard Asher, Jon Walden, Gill Barr and, following her appointment, Geraldine Gallacher.
The terms of reference for the committee establish a framework through which it can review the balance and effectiveness of the Board to ensure suitable candidates are identified and recommended for appointment to the Board and the various Board committees.
These terms of reference are available for review on request and on the Companys website.
As referred to above, the nominations committee met once formally during the year to approve the recommendation to the Board of Geraldine Gallachers appointment.
It also met informally on a number of occasions to review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Audit committee The members of the audit committee during 2007 were Bernard Asher chair, Gill Barr and Jon Walden.
All committee members are independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of each member of the committee, including financial experience where relevant, are set out on page 28.
The Board is satisfied that the committee has the appropriate level of financial experience to fulfil its terms of reference.
The committee had three scheduled meetings during the year, prior to the announcement of the Companys results for 2006 and approval of the annual report, prior to the announcement of its interim statement and before commencement of the audit for 2007.
Senior representatives from the external auditors, the finance director and the group head of audit and assurance were invited to attend each of these meetings.
The committee ensured, however, that it had the opportunity after each meeting to meet privately with the external auditors.
The main purpose of the meetings was to review the scope and results of the audit and the effectiveness of the external audit process, to monitor the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements and to discuss with the external auditors their overall work plan for the forthcoming audit.
In addition, the committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal audit activities and it received and reviewed at the meetings reports of the internal audit activity during the year and the internal audit plan for 2008.
The committee also reviewed the Groups whistle blowing policy containing arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
The chairman of the audit committee reports to the full Board on matters of significance arising at meetings of the committee.
The audit committee is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors and monitoring their independence and objectivity.
The external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have confirmed to the committee that they have policies and safeguards in place to ensure that they are independent within the meaning of all regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
In particular, they have rotated key audit principals to the extent required by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales Additional Guidance on Independence for Auditors.
A policy is in place to enable the committee to monitor the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services.
This provides that any proposals to engage the auditors for services, where the fees for such services would exceed either an absolute limit or a specified proportion of the audit fee, should be referred to the committee for approval.
During the year the committee approved the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP to assist the Company in connection with the acquisition from Amec plc, in particular on the working capital report in the Class I circular to shareholders and certain other ancillary work connected to the circular.
The committee was satisfied that it was appropriate for Deloitte & Touche LLP to undertake this appointment and that it would not impact adversely on their independence and objectivity as external auditors.
This was primarily because the services that Deloitte & Touche LLP would be instructed to carry out in relation to this transaction were not such that would now or in the future require to be audited by the external auditor.
The fees for non-audit services carried out by Deloitte & Touche LLP during the year are set out in note 2 to the accounts on page 60.
In aggregate these represented approximately 39% of the audit fee.
The committee has reviewed the nature of the work and level of fees for non-audit services provided by the external auditors and concluded that this has not affected their objectivity or the independence of the audit.
qxd 28 2 08 20:48 Page 43 Corporate governance statement Internal control statement The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve certain business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control, which includes financial, operational and compliance controls, is based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing risks.
It accords with the guidance in the Turnbull Report and was in place for the year under review, and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: Risk management The Board has reserved to itself specific responsibility for the formulation of the risk management strategy of the Group.
A formal process is in place through which the Group identifies the significant risks attached to its strategy and objectives, confirms the control strategy for each risk and identifies the appropriate early warning mechanisms and actions required.
Internal control and risk management systems are embedded in the operations of the divisions.
A consolidated report of each of the divisional risk reviews together with risks identified at Group level are compiled in a Group risk register, which is re-appraised and updated twice yearly.
The principal risks identified as facing the Group are highlighted in the business review on pages 5 and 6.
Audit and assurance The group head of audit and assurance, who reports to the chief executive and to the audit committee, is responsible for managing the audit and assurance function and assisting with risk management practices.
Internal audit and assurance work carried out during the year included operational, project and financial reviews across the key business units within the Group.
The results of these reviews are presented to the audit committee, where necessary with recommendations to address identified operational weaknesses, and such recommendations are followed up by subsequent reviews.
A new group head of audit and assurance was appointed during the year and the audit and assurance team has been expanded to meet the demands of the newly enlarged Group following the acquisition from Amec plc.
The Board remains committed to expanding the internal audit capability across the key operating divisions as the Group continues to grow.
The team will focus its attention in 2008 on the higher risk business areas and major projects, whilst ensuring an appropriate level of review across all operating divisions.
The group head of audit and assurance also oversees a rolling programme of peer group reviews, which assist in the professional development of the individual staff concerned while at the same time providing a mechanism for the cross fertilisation of ideas and best practice throughout the Group.
Financial information The Board recognises that an essential part of the responsibility for running a business is the effective safeguarding of assets, the proper recognition of liabilities and the accurate reporting of profits.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which is regularly reviewed and updated together with a management reporting system established in each division for monthly reporting to the Board.
In addition, the internal audit plan for the year includes specific financial reviews to validate the integrity of the divisions management accounts.
Investment and capital expenditure There are clear policies, detailed procedures and defined levels of authority in relation to investment, capital expenditure, significant cost commitments and asset disposals with approvals required from the Board, the executive directors or divisional boards depending on the value or nature of the investment or contract.
Tenders and project selection Individual tenders or projects are subject to detailed review with approvals required at relevant levels at various stages from commencement of the bidding process through to contract award.
Controls over central functions A number of the Groups key functions including treasury and insurance are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions has detailed policies and procedures.
Health, safety and environment Monthly reporting to the Board includes a report on the Groups performance in relation to health and safety matters and environmental compliance.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 31 December 2007 and for the period to the date of this report.
The process included a formal review conducted by the Board of the Group risk register, referred to under risk management above, as well as a review of the results of internal audit work and effectiveness of the process.
