52 Group Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Report and Accounts 2007 Members of Mouchel Parkman plc Mouchel Parkman plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Mouchel Parkman plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider the Financial Statements of Mouchel Parkman plc for the year ended whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
The other 31 July 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Summary, Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements the Business Review, the Corporate Governance Report and the of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
We consider the implications for our Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Basis of audit opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and the be audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, Opinion as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In our opinion: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the information presented in the Business Review that is cross-referred state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2007 and of its profit and from the business review section of the Directors Report.
cash flows for the year then ended: the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 July 2007 and by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions of its cash flows for the year then ended: is not disclosed.
the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not the Financial Statements.
required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness  LLP of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors control procedures.
