Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts To the members of N Brown Group plc statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
assurance that the group financial We have audited the group financial We report to you if, whether in our opinion, statements and the part of the statements of N Brown Group plc for the the information given in the directors remuneration report described as having 52 week period ended 24 February 2007, report is consistent with the group been audited are free from material which comprise the consolidated income financial statements.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud statement, the consolidated balance sheet, or other irregularity or error.
In forming In addition we report to you if, in our the consolidated cash flow statement, our opinion we also evaluated the opinion, the company has not kept reconciliation of operating profit to net overall adequacy of the presentation proper accounting records, if we have cash from operating activities, the of information in the group financial not received all the information and consolidated statement of recognised statements and the part of the explanations we require for our audit, income and expense and the related notes remuneration report to be audited.
or if information specified by law 1 to 35.
These group financial statements regarding directors remuneration and Opinion have been prepared under the accounting other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion: policies set out therein.
We have also We review whether the corporate audited the information in the directors the group financial statements give a true governance statement reflects the remuneration report that is described as and fair view, in accordance with those companys compliance with the nine having been audited.
IFRSs adopted by the European Union, provisions of the 2003 Combined Code of the state of the groups affairs as at We have reported separately on the parent specified for our review by the Listing 24 February 2007 and of its profit for company financial statements of N Brown Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the 52 week period then ended: Group plc for the year ended 24 February and we report if it does not.
We are not 2007. required to consider whether the boards the group financial statements and the This report is made solely to the companys statement on internal control covers all part of the directors remuneration report members, as a body, in accordance with risks and controls, or form an opinion on to be audited have been properly section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. the effectiveness of the groups corporate prepared in accordance with the Our audit work has been undertaken so governance procedures or its risk and Companies Act 1985 and, as regards that we might state to the companys control procedures.
the group financial statements, Article members those matters we are required 4 of the IAS regulation: and We read the other information contained to state to them in an auditors report and in the annual report as described in the the information given in the directors for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent contents section and consider whether it is report is consistent with the group permitted by law, we do not accept or consistent with the audited group financial financial statements.
assume responsibility to anyone other than statements.
We consider the implications the company and the companys members Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs for our report if we become aware of any as a body, for our audit work, for this As explained in note 2 to the group apparent misstatements or material report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements, the group in addition inconsistencies with the group financial to complying with its legal obligation to statements.
Our responsibilities do not Respective responsibilities of directors comply with IFRSs as adopted by the extend to any other information.
and auditors European Union, has also complied with The directors responsibilities for preparing IFRSs as issued by the International Basis of audit opinion the annual report, the directors remuneration Accounting Standards Board.
In our We conducted our audit in accordance report and the group financial statements opinion the group financial statements with International Standards on Auditing in accordance with applicable law and give a true and fair view, in accordance UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing International Financial Reporting Standards with IFRSs, of the state of the groups Practices Board.
An audit includes IFRSs as adopted by the European Union affairs at 24 February 2007 and of its examination, on a test basis, of evidence are set out in the directors report.
profit for the 52 week period then ended.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures Our responsibility is to audit the group in the group financial statements and the Deloitte & Touche LLP financial statements and the part of the part of the remuneration report described Chartered Accountants and Registered remuneration report described as having as having been audited.
It also includes Auditors been audited in accordance with relevant an assessment of the significant estimates Manchester United Kingdom legal and regulatory and judgements made by the directors requirements and International Standards in the preparation of the group financial 25 May 2007 on Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys We report to you our opinion as to whether circumstances, consistently applied and the group financial statements give a true adequately disclosed.
and fair view and whether the group financial statements and the part of the We planned and performed our audit directors remuneration report to be so as to obtain all the information and audited have been properly prepared in explanations which we considered accordance with the Companies Act 1985 necessary in order to provide us with and, as regards to the group financial sufficient evidence to give reasonable 38 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007
