Independent auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc the Company Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority, the Directors and for the year ended 31 March 2007 on pages 38 to 87 which comprise the accounting policies, Auditors income statements, balance sheets, statements of recognised income and expense, cash flow The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements are determined by the statements and the related notes to the regulatory accounting statements.
It is not appropriate for the auditors or the directors to assess whether the nature of the information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for the Authoritys purposes.
This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to the Company and the Gas and Accordingly we make no such assessment.
Electricity Markets Authority the Authority in accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Regulatory Licence granted to the Company, being the Gas Transporter The directors of the Company are responsible for preparing the regulatory accounting statements Licence in respect of the Distribution Networks dated 1 May 2005.
Our audit work has been and for compliance with the Condition, as described on page 35. undertaken so that we might state to the Company and the Authority those matters we have agreed to state to them in our report, in order to: a assist the Company to meet its obligations Our responsibility is to audit the regulatory accounting statements in accordance with International under the Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and b to facilitate the carrying out by the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board, except as stated Authority of its regulatory functions, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by in the Basis of audit opinion, below and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility or liability in respect of our work to anyone Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities.
other than those parties whom we have agreed in writing may have the benefit of our work, whom have accepted our engagement terms and to whom we have assumed a duty of care under We report to you our opinion as to whether the regulatory accounting statements have been written arrangements entered into with such parties.
properly prepared in accordance with the Condition and, in respect of each of its DN businesses, the metering business, the meter reading business, the fide-minimis business and the other Basis of preparation activities, whether they fairly present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention of, or reasonably attributable to those businesses.
We also report to you if the Company has not and in accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 38 to 43. kept proper accounting records or if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
The regulatory accounting statements are separate from the statutory financial statements of the Company.
We read the other information contained in the regulatory accounting statements, on which we do not express an audit opinion, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the regulatory accounting statements.
The other information comprises: the Cautionary statements: the Obligation to produce regulatory accounting statements: the Operating and financing review: the Corporate governance statement and the Directors report.
36 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland In our opinion, on the basis set out above, the regulatory accounting statements fairly present in issued by the Auditing Practices Board except as noted below.
An audit includes examination, on accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies set out on pages 38 to 43, the assets, a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the regulatory accounting liabilities, reserves and provisions of National Grid Gass DN businesses, metering business, statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by meter reading business, fide-minimis activities and other activities at 31 March 2007 and the the Directors in the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements and of whether the revenues and costs of its DN businesses, metering business, meter reading business, fide-minimis accounting policies are consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
activities and other activities for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Condition and the accounting policies.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
However, as the nature, form and content of the regulatory accounting statements are determined by the Authority, we did not evaluate the overall adequacy of the presentation of information, which would have been required if we were to express an audit opinion under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is separate from our opinion on the statutory Cornwall Court financial statements of the Company on which we reported on 4 June 2007, which are prepared 19 Cornwall Street for a different purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory accounts of the Company our Birmingham Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with B3 2DT 27 July 2007 section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Company web site is the responsibility of the Directors and the maintenance might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in a and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Authority: the work carried out by the auditors does Statutory auditors report and for no other purpose.
In these circumstances, to the fullest extent not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that permitted by law, we do not accept or assume any responsibility to anyone other than the may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Statutory audit work, for our Statutory audit report, or for the opinions we have formed in respect of that Statutory audit.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to be drawn up on the basis set out therein, including the separate disclosure of amounts charged to or from other businesses of National Grid plc or determined by apportionment.
The Directors of National Grid Gas plc are responsible for determining the bases of charges and apportionments, which requires a number of judgements and assumptions to be made.
We do not give an opinion on the appropriateness of the bases of charges and apportionments.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2006 07 37
