Independent Auditors Report T TO O T TH HE E S SH HA AR RE EH HO OL LD fide ER RS S O OF F N NE EX XT T P PL LC C We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of NEXT plc for the year ended 27 January 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, Accounting Policies, the related Notes 1 to 41 and Group Companies.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
R Re es sp pe ec ct tiiv five e r re es sp po on ns siib biilliit tiie es s o of f d diir re ec ct to or rs s a an nd d a au ud diit to or rs s The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report & Business Review is not consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions are not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Summary of Performance, Chairmans Statement, Directors Report & Business Review, Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, Half Year and Sector Analysis, Five Year History, Notice of Meeting and Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
B Ba as siis s o of f a au ud diit t o op piin niio on n We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
3 33 3 Independent Auditors Report O Op piin niio on n In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 27 January 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 27 January 2007: the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report & Business Review is consistent with the financial statements.
E Er rn ns st t & & Y Yo ou un ng g L LL LP P R Re eg giis st te er re ed d A Au ud diit to or r L Lo on nd do on n 2 22 2 M Ma ar rc ch h 2 20 00 07 7 Note The maintenance and integrity of the NEXT plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
