Independent auditors report Group financial statements To the members of Northern Foods plc We read the other information contained in the Annual report for We have audited the group financial statements of Northern Foods plc the above 52 weeks as described in the contents section and consider for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated statement any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated statement of group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to changes in equity, the Reconciliation of net cash flow to movements any further information outside the Annual report.
in net debt and the related notes 1 to 38.
These group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Corporate governance report and the Directors remuneration An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant report are included in the individual company Annual report of to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007.
We have It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and reported separately on the individual company financial statements judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group of Northern Foods plc for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are on the information in the Directors remuneration report included appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and in the individual company Annual report that is described as having adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in information and explanations which we considered necessary in order accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, members those matters we are required to state to them in an whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to of information in the group financial statements.
anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Opinion have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its loss and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for the 52 weeks then ended: by the European Union are set out in the Statement of directors the group financial statements have been properly prepared in responsibilities.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in the information given in the Report of the directors is consistent accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and with the group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Leeds Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the 30 May 2007 Report of the directors is consistent with the group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Northern Foods plc Independent auditors report Group financial statements 53
