INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES TO THE MEMBERS OF NORTHGATE PLC 2829 We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION ''the financial statements'' of Northgate plc for the year ended 30 April 2007 requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and accounts.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group and parent the impact of a particular transaction, other events and conditions Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Company Balance Sheets, the Group and parent Company Cash Flow on the entitys financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Statements, the Group and parent Company Statements of Changes in in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Equity, Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Notes 1 to 40.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
policies are appropriate to the Group's and Company's circumstances, the preparation of a Report of the Directors and Directors Remuneration consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Report which comply with the Companies Act 1985. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the financial statements accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with the Group website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free legislation in other jurisdictions.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of or for the opinions we have formed.
GOING CONCERN circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: The accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis as the of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Properly select and apply accounting policies: Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner OPINION that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the In our opinion: information: and Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group's of Directors' Responsibilities.
affairs as at 30 April 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing state of the parent Company's affairs as at 30 April 2007: UK and Ireland.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in the financial statements.
our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Report of the Deloitte & Touche LLP Directors includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of Leeds the Report of the Directors.
2 July 2007 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Directors' Remuneration Report, the Chairman's Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3031
