51 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Report of the Auditors on the Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Northumbrian Water Group plc Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not We have audited the Group financial statements of required to consider whether the Boards statements Northumbrian Water Group plc for the year ended on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form 31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate income statement, the Consolidated statement of governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
recognised income and expense, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement We read other information contained in the Annual and the related notes 1 to 30.
These Group financial Report and consider whether it is consistent with the statements have been prepared under the accounting audited Group financial statements.
The other information policies set out therein.
comprises only NWG at a glance, Highlights, the Chairmans statement, the Directors report and business We have reported separately on the parent Company review, Appendix to the directors report and business financial statements of Northumbrian Water Group plc review, Board directors biographies, the Corporate for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the information governance report, the unaudited part of the Directors in the Directors remuneration report that is described as remuneration report and Shareholder information.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material This report is made solely to the Companys members, as inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters Basis of audit opinion we are required to state to them in an auditors report We conducted our audit in accordance with International and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, anyone other than the Company and the Companys on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also or for the opinions we have formed.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting The directors responsibilities for preparing the policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, Annual Report and the Group financial statements in consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain adopted by the European Union are set out in the all the information and explanations which we considered Statement of directors responsibilities.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, statements in accordance with relevant legal and whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
regulatory requirements and International Standards In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall on Auditing UK and Ireland.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to the Group financial statements give a true and fair you whether in our opinion the information given in the view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Directors report and business review is consistent with European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs the financial statements.
as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have the Group financial statements have been properly not received all the information and explanations we prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 require for our audit, or if information specified by law and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and regarding directors remuneration and other transactions the information given in the Directors report is not disclosed.
and business review is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine Ernst & Young LLP Newcastle upon Tyne provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our Registered Auditor 5 June 2007 CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
