Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Pearson plc We have audited the Group and Company Financial Statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and together the Financial Statements of Pearson plc for the year ended Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 31 December 2007.
The Group Financial Statements comprise the Financial Statements.
The other information comprises the Business Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Report on the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Directors Remuneration, and all other information referred to on the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes to the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company Financial we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Statements comprise the Company Statement of Recognised Income inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities and Expense, the Company Balance Sheet, the Company Cash Flow do not extend to any other information.
Statement and the related Notes to the Company Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting Basis of audit opinion policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
It also The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and International made by the directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members that the Financial Statements and the part of the Report on Directors as a body in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Report on where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Directors Remuneration to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements Opinion give a true and fair view and whether the Financial Statements and In our opinion: the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act The Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the and cash flows for the year then ended: Financial Statements.
The information given in the Directors Report The Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in includes that specific information presented in the Business Review accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all and cash flows for the year then ended: the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if The Financial Statements and the part of the Report on Directors information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in and other transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the Financial Statements.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal  LLP control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London effectiveness of the Groups Corporate Governance procedures 13 March 2008 or its risk and control procedures.
53 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
