33-96 2-colour 14 June 14 6 07 12:40 Page 43 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We read other information contained in the Annual Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE and consider whether it is consistent with the audited MEMBERS OF PENNON GROUP PLC financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives overviews, the We have audited the Group and Company financial statements Business review, the Directors report, the audited part of the the financial statements of Pennon Group Plc for the year Directors remuneration report and the Corporate governance ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group income statement.
We consider the implications for our report if statement, the Group statement of recognised income we become aware of any apparent misstatements or and expense, the Company statement of recognised income and material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
expense, the Group balance sheet, the Company balance sheet, Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the Group cash flow statement, the Company cash flow statement and the related notes.
These financial statements have been BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report We conducted our audit in accordance with International that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, in accordance with applicable law and International Financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Directors responsibilities statement.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance assurance that the financial statements and the part of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other to be audited.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OPINION We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial and cash flows for the year then ended: statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in report is consistent with the financial statements.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all and cash flows for the year then ended: the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements and the part of the Directors information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared and other transactions is not disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing the financial statements.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards  LLP statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Bristol governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
