78 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PREMIER FARNELL PLC We have audited the Consolidated In addition, we report to you if, in our Opinion Financial Statements of Premier Farnell opinion, we have not received all the In our opinion: plc for the year ended 28 January 2007 information and explanations we require the Consolidated Financial Statements which comprise the Consolidated for our audit, or if information specified give a true and fair view, in accordance Income Statement, the Consolidated by law regarding directors with IFRSs as adopted by the Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash remuneration and other transactions is European Union, of the state of the Flow Statement, the Consolidated not disclosed.
Groups affairs as at 28 January 2007 Statement of Recognised Income and We review whether the Corporate and of its profit and cash flows for the Expense and the related notes.
These Governance Statement reflects the year then ended: Consolidated Financial Statements have Companys compliance with the nine been prepared under the accounting the Consolidated Financial Statements provisions of the Combined Code 2003 policies set out therein.
have been properly prepared in specified for our review by the Listing accordance with the Companies Act We have reported separately on the Rules of the Financial Services 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS parent Company Financial Statements Authority, and we report if it does not.
Regulation: and of Premier Farnell plc for the year We are not required to consider whether ended 28 January 2007 and on the Boards statements on internal the information given in the Directors the information in the Directors control cover all risks and controls, or Report is consistent with the Remuneration Report that is form an opinion on the effectiveness of Consolidated Financial Statements.
described as having been audited.
the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control  LLP procedures.
Respective responsibilities of Chartered Accountants Directors and Auditors We read other information contained in and Registered Auditors the Annual Report and Accounts and The Directors responsibilities for Leeds consider whether it is consistent with preparing the Annual Report and the 28 March 2007 the audited Consolidated Financial Consolidated Financial Statements in Statements.
The other information accordance with applicable law and comprises only the Chairmans International Financial Reporting Statement, the Business Review, Standards IFRS as adopted by the the Directors Report, the Corporate European Union are set out in the Governance Statement and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
unaudited part of the Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the Report.
We consider the implications Consolidated Financial Statements in for our report if we become aware of accordance with relevant legal and any apparent misstatements or regulatory requirements and material inconsistencies with the International Standards on Auditing UK Consolidated Financial Statements.
This report, including the Our responsibilities do not extend to opinion, has been prepared for and only any other information.
for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Basis of audit opinion Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this We conducted our audit in accordance opinion, accept or assume responsibility with International Standards on Auditing for any other purpose or to any other UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing person to whom this report is shown or Practices Board.
An audit includes into whose hands it may come save examination, on a test basis, of evidence where expressly agreed by our prior relevant to the amounts and disclosures consent in writing.
in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
It also includes an We report to you our opinion as to assessment of the significant estimates whether the Consolidated Financial and judgments made by the Directors in Statements give a true and fair view and the preparation of the Consolidated whether the Consolidated Financial Financial Statements, and of whether Statements have been properly the accounting policies are appropriate prepared in accordance with the to the Groups circumstances, Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the consistently applied and adequately IAS Regulation.
We also report to you, disclosed.
whether in our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is We planned and performed our audit so consistent with the Consolidated as to obtain all the information and Financial Statements.
The information explanations which we considered given in the Directors Report includes necessary in order to provide us with that specific information presented in sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Business Review that is cross assurance that the Consolidated referenced from the principal activities Financial Statements are free from and business review section of the material misstatement, whether caused Directors Report.
by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC AUDITORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS 2007
