50 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Premier Foods plc The Group We have audited the Group consolidated financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report of Premier Foods plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the consolidated financial statements.
The other information Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow comprises the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income summary, the Business review, the Financial review, the and expense and the related notes.
These Group consolidated unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Directors financial statements have been prepared under the report and the Corporate Governance statement.
We consider accounting policies set out therein.
the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the We have reported separately on the parent company Group consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities financial statements of Premier Foods plc for the year ended do not extend to any other information.
31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, and the Group consolidated financial statements in accordance of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Group consolidated financial statements.
It also includes an Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
by the directors in the preparation of the Group consolidated financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Our responsibility is to audit the Group consolidated financial are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory applied and adequately disclosed.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, reasonable assurance that the Group consolidated financial accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to statements are free from material misstatement, whether any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the consent in writing.
presentation of information in the Group consolidated financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view Opinion and whether the Group consolidated financial statements In our opinion: have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Group consolidated financial statements give a true We also report to you whether in our opinion the information and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Groups European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at consolidated financial statements.
The information given in 31 December 2007 and of its loss and cash flows for the the Directors Report includes that specific information year then ended: presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives the Group consolidated financial statements have been summary, the Business review, the Financial review and the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act report on Corporate Governance that is cross referred from 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the Business review section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Group consolidated financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors  LLP remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions 3 March 2008 of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Notes: Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we a The maintenance and integrity of the Premier Foods plc website is the report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does the boards statements on internal control cover all risks not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and control procedures.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
