QinetiQ Group plc 59 Annual Report 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the members of QinetiQ Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of QinetiQ Group plc for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group Income statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Group Cash Flow Statement, Group Statement of Recognised inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial do not extend to any other information.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Report of the Remuneration Committee that is described as on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited.
It audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Companys members those matters we are required to state to judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are free from law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the statements and the Report of the Remuneration Committee in overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Committee to be audited.
Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 58.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part In our opinion: of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the financial statements and the part of the Report of the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly the financial statements.
The information given in the Report of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, the Directors includes that specific information presented in the as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Business Review that is cross referenced from the Report of the IAS Regulation: and Directors.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent information and explanations we require for our audit, or if with the financial statements.
information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance reflects Registered auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 London FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of 31 May 2007 the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
