81 Report of the independent auditors to the Members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial internal control relevant to the entitys is a person entitled to rely upon this report statements of Randgold Resources Limited preparation and fair presentation of the by virtue of and for the purpose of Article the company which comprise the standalone financial statements in order to design audit 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 balance sheet of the company and procedures that are appropriate in the or has been expressly authorised to do so consolidated balance sheet of the company circumstances, but not for the purpose of by our prior written consent.
Save as above, and its subsidiaries the group as of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness we do not accept responsibility for this report 31 December 2007 and the consolidated of the entitys internal control.
An audit also to any other person or for any other purpose income statement, consolidated statement of includes evaluating the appropriateness of and we hereby expressly disclaim any and changes in equity and consolidated cash flow accounting policies used and the all such liability.
statement for the year then ended and a reasonableness of accounting estimates summary of significant accounting policies and made by the directors, as well as evaluating other explanatory notes.
the overall presentation of the financial statements.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We believe that the audit evidence we have The companys directors are responsible for obtained is sufficient and appropriate to BDO Stoy Hayward LLP the preparation and fair presentation of these provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Chartered Accountants financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards OPINION London as issued by the IASB and with the In our opinion, the accompanying financial 25 March 2008 requirements of Companies Jersey Law statements give a true and fair view of the 1991.
This responsibility includes: designing, financial position of the company and the implementing and maintaining internal control group as of 31 December 2007, and of the relevant to the preparation and fair financial performance and cash flows of the presentation of financial statements that are group for the year then ended in accordance free from material misstatement, whether with International Financial Reporting due to fraud or error: selecting and applying Standards as issued by the IASB and with appropriate accounting policies: and making the requirements of Companies Jersey Law accounting estimates that are reasonable in 1991. the circumstances.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITY REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Our responsibility is to express an opinion We also review whether the corporate on these financial statements based on our governance statement reflects the companys audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance compliance with the nine provisions of the with International Standards on Auditing.
2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Those standards require that we comply Code specified for our review by the Listing with ethical requirements and plan and Rules of the Financial Services Authority, perform the audit to obtain reasonable and we report if it does not.
We are not, assurance whether the financial statements required to consider whether the boards are free from material misstatement.
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the An audit involves performing procedures to effectiveness of the groups corporate obtain audit evidence about the amounts governance procedures or its risk and control and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the Our report has been prepared for pursuant assessment of the risks of material to the requirements of Article 110 of the misstatement of the financial statements, Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no whether due to fraud or error.
No other person is entitled those risk assessments, the auditors consider to rely on this report unless such a person Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 81
