Statutory reports and financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of The Rank Group Plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information the financial statements of The Rank Group Plc for the year ended and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group income statement, the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Group and Company balance sheets, the Group and Company cash ow statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited statements, the Group statement of recognised income and expense and are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the In our opinion: directors report, remuneration report and the financial statements in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash ows statement of directors responsibilities.
for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 and cash ows and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section for the year then ended: 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared financial statements.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors' report is  LLP consistent with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and registered auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept London proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 28 February 2008 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, which includes the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the business review and the corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
40 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements
