Independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements We review whether the Corporate governance Opinion of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year statement reflects the Companys compliance In our opinion: ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the with the nine provisions of the Combined Code the Group financial statements give a true Group Income Statement, the Group Statement 2006 specified for our review by the Listing and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and adopted by the European Union, of the state Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement we report if it does not.
We are not required of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and the related notes.
These Group financial to consider whether the Boards statements and of its profit and cash flows for the year statements have been prepared under the on internal control cover all risks and controls, then ended: accounting policies set out therein.
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or the Group financial statements have been We have reported separately on the parent its risk and control procedures.
properly prepared in accordance with the company financial statements of Reckitt Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Benckiser Group plc for the period ended 31 We read other information contained in the Regulation: and December 2007 and on the information in the Annual Report and consider whether it is Directors Remuneration Report that is described consistent with the audited Group financial the information given in the Report of the as having been audited.
The other information comprises Directors is consistent with the Group only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors Executives Review, the Business Review 2007, and auditors the Report of the Directors including statements The Directors responsibilities for preparing on Corporate governance, the unaudited part the Annual Report and the Group financial of the Directors Remuneration Report, the statements in accordance with applicable law biographies of the Board of Directors and and International Financial Reporting Standards Executive Committee, and the Shareholder IFRSs as adopted by the European Union information.
We consider the implications for are set out in the statement of Directors  LLP our report if we become aware of any apparent responsibilities.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies with London Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities 13 March 2008 statements in accordance with relevant legal do not extend to any other information.
and regulatory requirements and International Notes: Basis of audit opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt We conducted our audit in accordance with report, including the opinion, has been prepared Benckiser Group plc website is the responsibility International Standards on Auditing UK and for and only for the Companys members as a of the Directors: the work carried out by the Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
body in accordance with Section 235 of the auditors does not involve consideration of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
these matters and, accordingly, the auditors of evidence relevant to the amounts and We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or accept no responsibility for any changes that disclosures in the Group financial statements.
assume responsibility for any other purpose or to may have occurred to the financial statements It also includes an assessment of the significant any other person to whom this report is shown since they were initially presented on estimates and judgements made by the Directors or into whose hands it may come save where the website.
in the preparation of the Group financial expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
statements, and of whether the accounting Legislation in the United Kingdom governing We report to you our opinion as to whether the policies are appropriate to the Groups the preparation and dissemination of financial Group financial statements give a true and fair circumstances, consistently applied and statements may differ from legislation in view and whether the Group financial statements adequately disclosed.
have been properly prepared in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the to obtain all the information and explanations IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether which we considered necessary in order to in our opinion the information given in the provide us with sufficient evidence to give Report of the Directors is consistent with the reasonable assurance that the Group financial Group financial statements.
statements are free from material misstatement, In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or we have not received all the information and error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated explanations we require for our audit, or if the overall adequacy of the presentation of information specified by law regarding information in the Group financial statements.
Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
24 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
