Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of Redrow plc inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial do not extend to any other information.
statements the financial statements of Redrow plc for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 30 June 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income We conducted our audit in accordance with International statement, the Balance sheets, the Cash flow statements, the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Statements of recognised income and expense, Accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of policies and the related notes.
These financial statements have evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant report that is described as having been audited.
estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors of the financial statements, and of whether the Accounting The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part assurance that the financial statements and the part of the of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited in accordance Directors Remuneration report to be audited are free from with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in report to be audited.
giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Opinion into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our In our opinion: prior consent in writing.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to profit and cash flows for the year then ended: be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the report is consistent with the financial statements.
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its cash flows for the year then not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the ended: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements and the part of the Directors information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Regulation: and Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on with the financial statements.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the About Us and the Business Review sections, the Corporate Governance  LLP statement, the unaudited part of the Remuneration report and the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors report.
We consider the implications for our report if we Manchester become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 10 September 2007 52 Independent Auditors report
