Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 181 Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV We believe that the audit evidence we have Report on the consolidated financial statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
financial statements 2007, which are part of the financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV, Opinion Amsterdam, for the year ended 31 December 2007 the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial comprising the consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, the position of Reed Elsevier NV as at 31 December 2007, and of its result and its cash flows for the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the reconciliation of shareholders equity, year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the the consolidated balance sheet, the group accounting policies and explanatory notes as set European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Report on other legal and regulatory Directors responsibility Directors are responsible for the preparation and requirements Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International subsection 5 part e of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our competence, that Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the the Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board is consistent with the consolidated Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Supervisory Board and the financial statements as required by 2:391 subsection 4 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
Executive Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
This responsibility Deloitte Accountants B. V. includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair J P M Hopmans Amsterdam presentation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material The Netherlands 20 February 2008 misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Additional information Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Post balance sheet events are set out in note 18 consolidated financial statements based on our to the Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with statements.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
