Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 165 Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC We have audited the parent company financial information specified by law regarding directors statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year remuneration and transactions with the company ended 31 December 2007 the company financial is not disclosed.
statements which comprise the parent company We read the other information contained in the balance sheet, the parent company reconciliation Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial of shareholders funds, the parent company Statements 2007, as described in the contents accounting policies, and the related note on section including the unaudited parts of the page 164.
These parent company financial Remuneration Report, and consider whether statements have been prepared under the it is consistent with the audited company financial accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for We have also audited the information in the parts our report if we become aware of any apparent of the Directors Remuneration Report presented misstatements or material inconsistencies in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial with the company financial statements.
Our Statements 2007 the Remuneration Report responsibilities do not extend to any further that are described as having been audited.
information outside the Reed Elsevier Annual We have reported separately on the consolidated Reports and Financial Statements 2007. financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2007.
We conducted our audit in accordance with This report is made solely to the companys International Standards on Auditing UK and members, as a body, in accordance with section Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our audit work An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of has been undertaken so that we might state to evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures the companys members those matters we are in the company financial statements and the parts required to state to them in an auditors report and of the Remuneration Report described as having for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted been audited.
It also includes an assessment of by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the significant estimates and judgements made to anyone other than the company and the by the directors in the preparation of the company companys members as a body, for our audit work, financial statements, and of whether the accounting for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of directors adequately disclosed.
and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the We planned and performed our audit so as to Annual Report and the company financial obtain all the information and explanations which statements in accordance with applicable law we considered necessary in order to provide us with and United Kingdom Accounting Standards sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting that the company financial statements and the Practice are set out in the statement of parts of the Remuneration Report described as directors responsibilities.
They are also having been audited are free from material responsible for the preparation of the other misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other information contained in the Reed Elsevier irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation including, together with the directors of Reed of information in the company financial statements Elsevier NV, the Remuneration Report.
and the parts of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the company financial statements and the parts of the Remuneration Opinion Report described as having been audited in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory The company financial statements give a true requirements and International Standards on and fair view, in accordance with United Auditing UK and Ireland.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether the Practice, of the state of the companys affairs company financial statements give a true and fair as at 31 December 2007: view and whether company financial statements the company financial statements and the and parts of the Remuneration Report to be parts of the Remuneration Report described audited have been properly prepared in accordance as having been audited have been properly with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to prepared in accordance with the Companies you whether in our opinion, the directors report is Act 1985: and consistent with the company financial statements.
The information given in the directors report the information given in the directors report includes the business review that is cross referred is consistent with the company financial from pages 19 to 34, 38 to 41 and 80 to 89 of the statements.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007.
Deloitte & Touche LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors company has not kept proper accounting records, London if we have not received all the information and 20 February 2008 explanations we require for our audit, or if
