Reed Elsevier PLC 162 Independent auditors report on the consolidated financial statements to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC We have audited the consolidated financial We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with statements of Reed Elsevier PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 the consolidated the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code financial statements, which comprise the specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the consolidated income statement, the consolidated Financial Services Authority, and we report if it cash flow statement, the consolidated balance does not.
We are not required to consider whether sheet, the consolidated statement of recognised the boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the income and expenses, the reconciliation of effectiveness of the groups corporate governance shareholders equity, the group accounting policies procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under We read the other information contained in the the accounting policies set out therein.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007, as described in the contents We have reported separately on the individual section, and consider whether it is consistent with parent company financial statements of Reed the audited consolidated financial statements.
Elsevier PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 We consider the implications for our report if we and on the information in the parts of the become aware of any apparent misstatements or Directors Remuneration Report presented in material inconsistencies with the consolidated the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not Statements 2007 the Remuneration Report extend to any further information outside the that are described as having been audited.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial This report is made solely to the companys Statements 2007. members, as a body, in accordance with section Basis of audit opinion 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We conducted our audit in accordance with has been undertaken so that we might state to International Standards on Auditing UK and the companys members those matters we are Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
required to state to them in an auditors report An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in the financial statements.
It also includes an responsibility to anyone other than the company assessment of the significant estimates and and the companys members as a body, for our judgements made by the directors in the preparation audit work, for this report, or for the opinions of the consolidated financial statements, and of we have formed.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Respective responsibilities of directors the companys circumstances, consistently applied and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the We planned and performed our audit so as Annual Report and the consolidated financial to obtain all the information and explanations statements in accordance with applicable law which we considered necessary in order to provide and International Financial Reporting Standards us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set assurance that the consolidated financial out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
statements are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or financial statements in accordance with relevant error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the United Kingdom legal and regulatory overall adequacy of the presentation of information requirements and International Standards on in the consolidated financial statements.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the In our opinion: consolidated financial statements give a true and the consolidated financial statements give a fair view and whether the consolidated financial true and fair view in accordance with IFRS, as statements have been properly prepared in adopted for use in the European Union, of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and state of the groups affairs as at 31 December Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the the consolidated financial statements have consolidated financial statements.
The information been properly prepared in accordance with the given in the directors report includes the business Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS review that is cross referred from pages 19 to 34, Regulation: and 38 to 41 and 80 to 89 of the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007. the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Deloitte & Touche LLP information specified by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and transactions with the company London and other members of the group is not disclosed.
