Combined financial statements 132 Independent auditors report to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the United Report on the combined financial statements Kingdom Auditing Practices Board and Dutch Law.
We have audited the combined financial This requires that we comply with our respective statements of Reed Elsevier PLC registered in professions ethical requirements and plan and England and Wales, Reed Elsevier NV registered perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance in Amsterdam, Reed Elsevier Group plc whether the combined financial statements are registered in England and Wales, Elsevier Reed free from material misstatement.
Finance BV registered in Amsterdam and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures together the combined businesses, We also read other information contained in the for the year ended 31 December 2007 the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial combined financial statements, which comprise Statements 2007, as described in the contents the combined income statement, the combined section, including the summary of the combined cash flow statement, the combined balance sheet, financial statements presented in Euros, and the combined statement of recognised income consider the implications for our report if we and expenses, the combined reconciliation of become aware of any apparent misstatements shareholders equity, the accounting policies or material inconsistencies with the combined and the related notes 1 to 37. financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the parts An audit involves performing procedures to obtain of the Directors Remuneration Report presented audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial in the combined financial statements.
The Statements the Remuneration Report that are procedures selected depend on our judgement, described as having been audited.
The separate including the assessment of the risks of material audit reports on the consolidated financial misstatement of the combined financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In Elsevier NV which have been audited under locally making those risk assessments, we consider adopted standards appear on pages 162 and 181. internal control relevant to the combined businesses preparation and fair presentation of the combined financial statements in order Our audit work has been undertaken so that we to design audit procedures that are appropriate might state to the members of Reed Elsevier PLC in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of and shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV those expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the matters we are required to state to them in an combined businesses internal control.
An audit auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the also includes evaluating the appropriateness of fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept accounting policies used and the reasonableness or assume responsibility to anyone other than of accounting estimates made by the directors, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, and the as well as evaluating the overall presentation of members of Reed Elsevier PLC as a body and the the combined financial statements.
shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Directors responsibility a basis for our audit opinion.
The directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the combined financial Opinion statements in accordance with International In our opinion, the combined financial statements Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the give a true and fair view of the financial position European Union and for the preparation of the of the combined busineseses as at 31 December Remuneration Report.
This responsibility includes: 2007, and of their profits and cash flows for the designing, implementing and maintaining internal year then ended in accordance with International control relevant to the preparation and fair Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the presentation of the combined financial statements European Union.
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying The parts of the Remuneration Report described appropriate accounting policies: and making as having been audited have been properly accounting estimates that are reasonable in the prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom given circumstances.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte Accountants B. V. combined financial statements, and the parts of Chartered Accountants J P M Hopmans the Remuneration Report that are described as and Registered Auditors Amsterdam being audited, based on our audit.
We conducted London The Netherlands our audit in accordance with relevant legal and United Kingdom 20 February 2008 regulatory requirements, International Standards 20 February 2008
