Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Regus Group plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial that is cross-referenced from the business review section of the statements the financial statements of Regus Group plc Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent not received all the information and explanations we require for Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow our audit or if information specified by law regarding directors Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
These financial statements have been We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Report that is described as having been audited.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate state to the Companys members those matters we are required governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, become aware of any apparent misstatements or material for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Basis of audit opinion and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable We conducted our audit in accordance with International law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards in the financial statements and the part of the directors UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 34.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited in and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other you whether in our opinion the information given in the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration specic information presented in the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Responsibility Report Report to be audited.
com Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square, London, EC4Y 8BB 14 March 2008 Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
