REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF RENISHAW plc We have audited the group and parent company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual report statements the financial statements of Renishaw plc for the year and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial ended 30th June 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we statement, the group and parent company Balance sheets, the become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Consolidated statement of cash flow, the Consolidated statement inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These do not extend to any other information.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in Basis of audit opinion the Directors remuneration report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Companys members those matters we are required to state to made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the group financial statements in accordance with applicable Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance presentation of information in the financial statements and the part with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 32.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part In our opinion: of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance t the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Groups affairs as at 30th June 2007 and of its profit for the year We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and t the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act IAS Regulation: 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of t the parent company financial statements give a true and fair the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 30th financial statements.
June 2007: The information given in the Directors' report includes that specific t the parent company financial statements and the part of the information presented in the Chairman's statement and the Financial Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly review that is cross-referred from the Principal activities and review prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and of the business section of the Directors' report.
t the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMGAudit Plc Marlborough House We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Chartered Accountants Fitzalan Court Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Registered Auditor Cardiff Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 25th July 2007 CF24 0TE Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
