Rentokil Initial plc Independent Auditors Report Independent AudItors report to the MeMbers of rentokIl InItIAl plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of remuneration report, the five year summary and the investor Rentokil Initial plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which information.
We consider the implications for our report if we comprise the balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent become aware of any apparent misstatements or material company financial statements have been prepared under the inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
information in the directors remuneration report that is described bAsIs of AudIt opInIon as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the group We conducted our audit in accordance with International financial statements of Rentokil Initial plc for the year ended Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 31 December 2007.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, respectIve responsIbIlItIes of dIrectors And AudItors of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, company financial statements and the part of the directors the directors remuneration report and the parent company remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the directors responsibilities.
companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory information and explanations which we considered necessary in requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for assurance that the parent company financial statements and the and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly company financial statements and the part of the directors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
remuneration report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company opInIon financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the In our opinion: parent company financial statements and the part of the directors the parent company financial statements give a true and fair remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at whether in our opinion the information given in the directors 31 December 2007: report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the The information given in the directors report includes that directors remuneration report to be audited have been specific information presented in the business review that is crossproperly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: referenced from the business review section of the directors report.
and In addition we report to you if in our opinion the company has the information given in the directors report is consistent with not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the parent company financial statements.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Letter from the Board, the Board Review, the Business Review,  llp the statement of corporate responsibility, the directors report, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the corporate governance statement, the statement of directors London responsibilities, the unaudited section of the directors 27 March 2008 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Rentokil Initial plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
