Rentokil Initial plc Independent Auditors Report Independent AudItors report to the MeMBers of rentokIl InItIAl plc We have audited the group financial statements of Rentokil Initial We read other information contained in the annual report and plc for the year ended 31 December 2007, which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of statements.
The other information comprises only the Letter from recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the Board, the Board Review, the business review, the statement the consolidated cash ow statement and the related notes.
These of corporate responsibility, the directors report, the corporate group financial statements have been prepared under the governance statement, the statement of directors responsibilities, accounting policies set out therein.
the unaudited section of the directors remuneration report, the five year summary and the investor information.
We consider the We have reported separately on the parent company financial implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent statements of Rentokil Initial plc for the year ended 31 December misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group 2007 and on the information in the directors remuneration report financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend that is described as having been audited.
respectIve responsIBIlItIes of dIrectors And AudItors BAsIs of AudIt opInIon The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the applied and adequately disclosed.
companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving information and explanations which we considered necessary this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose assurance that the group financial statements are free from material hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial presentation of information in the group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the opInIon Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also In our opinion: report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the The information given in the directors report includes that specic state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit information presented in the business review that is crossand cash ows for the year then ended: referenced from the business review section of the directors report.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received Regulation: and all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information given in the directors report is consistent with information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and the group financial statements.
other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the  llp effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors risk and control procedures.
London 27 March 2008 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Rentokil Initial plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
