Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statementofchanges in equity, the consolidatedbalance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes1to29.
These Group financialstatements have been prepared under the accounting policiesset out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We have reportedseparately on the parentcompany  Restaurant Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007.
This report is made solely to the Companysmembers, asabody, inaccordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companysmembers those matters we arerequiredtostate to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, wedonot accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companysmembers asabody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration reportand the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International  IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financialstatements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We reporttoyou our opinionastowhether the Group financial statements giveatrue and fairview, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article4ofthe IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors remunerationreport described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the report of the Directors is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we reporttoyou if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we requirefor our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We reviewwhether the  Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we reportifitdoes not.
Weare not requiredtoconsider whether the Boardsstatements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the  procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read theother information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and considerwhether it is consistent with the audited Group financialstatements.
We consider the implicationsfor our reportifwebecome awareofany apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outsidethe Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with  on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, onatest basis, of evidencerelevant to theamounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration reporttobeaudited.
Italso includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies areappropriate to the Groupscircumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidencetogive reasonable assurance that the group financialstatements and the part of the Directors remunerationreport to be audited arefreefrommaterial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Informing our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
30 The RestaurantGroup plc Annual Report 2007 Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements giveatrue and fair view, inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groupsaffairs as at 30 December 2007 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article4ofthe IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors remuneration reportdescribed as having been audited has been properlyprepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the report of the Directors is consistent with the group financial statements.
Deloitte&Touche LLP CharteredAccountants and RegisteredAuditors London 5March 2008 31 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007
