Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 which comprise the balance sheet and the relatednotesitovi.
These parent company financialstatements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We havereported separatelyonthe Group financial statementsofThe RestaurantGroup plc for the 52 weeksended 30 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors  is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companysmembers, asabody, inaccordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companysmembers those matters we arerequiredtostate to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, wedonot accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companysmembers asabody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinionswe have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Reportand the parent companyfinancial  with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice areset out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legaland regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whetherthe parent company financial statements giveatrue and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly preparedinaccordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whetherinour opinion the report of the  with the parent company financial statements.
In additionwereport to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we requirefor our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become awareofany apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parentcompany financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outsidethe Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with  on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, onatest basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financialstatements, and of whether the accounting policies areappropriatetothe , consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our auditsoastoobtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements arefreefrommaterial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Informing our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of informationinthe parent company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements giveatrue and fair view, inaccordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companysaffairs as at 30 December 2007: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte&Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 5March 2008 61 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2007
