RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the members of IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion Rightmove plc the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent We have audited the group and parent company financial with the financial statements.
The information given in the statements the ''financial statements'' of Rightmove plc for Directors' Report includes that specic information that is the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the cross referred from the Business Review section of the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Directors' Report.
Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Statements of Cash Flow, the Consolidated and Company company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, and the not received all the information and explanations we require related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also directors' remuneration and other transactions is not audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report disclosed.
that is described as having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement This report is made solely to the companys members, as a reects the company's compliance with the nine provisions body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the 1985.
Our audit work had been undertaken so that we might Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we state to the companys members those matters we are report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and company and the companys members as a body, for our control procedures.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements.
We consider the implications for our The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our financial statements in accordance with applicable law and responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors' Basis of audit opinion Responsibilities on page 31.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the and Ireland.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial includes an assessment of the significant estimates and statements give a true and fair view and whether the judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and the part of the Directors' financial statements, and of whether the accounting Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly policies are appropriate to the group's and company's prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the disclosed.
42 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the group's affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent company's affairs as at 31 December 2007: the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Milton Keynes 29 February 2008 43
