qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 49 49 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC We have audited the Group and individual Company financial statements the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our financial statements of Ashtead Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2007 report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Statements, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared under BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant OPINION legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing In our opinion: UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give affairs as at 30 April 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the individual Company financial statements give a true and fair view, of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2007: to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with in the Directors Report includes that specic information presented in the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, the Business and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Trading Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and results and dividends section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRSs explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 April 2007 and of its profit Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider for the year then ended.
whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND REGISTERED AUDITORS London We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described 25 June 2007 in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the
