Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 117 Governance Financial statements Independent auditorsreport To the members of Rolls-Royce Group plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements thefinancial Basis of audit opinion statements of Rolls-Royce Group plc for the year ended December 31, 2007 which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK comprise the Group consolidated income statement, the Group and parent and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Company balance sheets, the Group consolidated cash flow statement, the Group on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
statements and the part of the  report to be audited.
It also These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors' remuneration directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the report that is described as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the  report to be audited are free from material misstatement, the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also report, or for the opinions we have formed.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the  report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The  for preparing the Annual report and the Group financial Opinion statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting In our opinion: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent Company the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with financial statements and the  report in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting December 31, 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: Practice are set out in the statement of  on page 54. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation:  report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true parent Companys affairs as at December 31, 2007: and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of with the Companies Act 1985: and the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information the information given in the Report of the directors is consistent with the given in the report of the directors is consistent with the financial statements.
information given in the report of the directors includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross-referred from the business review section of the Report of the directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding London  and other transactions is not disclosed.
February 6, 2008 We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
