ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 41 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ROTORK P. L. C. We have audited the Group Accepted Accounting Practice are the Boards statements on internal fraud or other irregularity or error.
and parent company financial set out in the Statement of control cover all risks and controls, In forming our opinion we also statements the financial Directors Responsibilities.
or form an opinion on the evaluated the overall adequacy of statements of Rotork p. l. c. for the effectiveness of the Groups the presentation of information in Our responsibility is to audit the year ended 31 December 2007 corporate governance procedures the financial statements and the financial statements and the part which comprise the Consolidated or its risk and control procedures.
part of the Remuneration Report of the Remuneration Report to be Income Statement, the to be audited.
audited in accordance with relevant We read the other information Consolidated and Parent Company legal and regulatory requirements contained in the Annual Report OPINION Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and International Standards on and consider whether it is In our opinion: Statement of Cash Flows, the Auditing UK and Ireland.
consistent with the audited the Group financial statements Consolidated Statement of financial statements.
We consider give a true and fair view, in Recognised Income and Expense We report to you our opinion as to the implications for our report accordance with IFRSs as and the related notes.
These whether the financial statements if we become aware of any adopted by the European financial statements have been give a true and fair view and apparent misstatements or Union, of the state of the prepared under the accounting whether the financial statements material inconsistencies with Groups affairs as at policies set out therein.
We have and the part of the Remuneration the financial statements.
Our 31 December 2007 and of its also audited the information in the Report to be audited have been responsibilities do not extend to profit for the year then ended: Remuneration Report that is properly prepared in accordance any other information.
the Group financial statements described as having been audited.
with the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in and, as regards the Group financial BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION This report is made solely to the accordance with the statements, Article 4 of the IAS We conducted our audit in Companys members, as a body, Companies Act 1985 and Regulation.
We also report to you accordance with International in accordance with section 235 of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: whether in our opinion the Standards on Auditing UK and the Companies Act 1985.
Our the parent company financial information given in the Directors Ireland issued by the Auditing audit work has been undertaken statements give a true and fair Report is consistent with the Practices Board.
An audit includes so that we might state to the view, in accordance with United financial statements.
The examination, on a test basis, of Companys members those Kingdom Generally Accepted information given in the Directors evidence relevant to the amounts matters we are required to state to Accounting Practice, of the Report includes that specic and disclosures in the financial them in an auditors report and for state of the parent companys information presented in the statements and the part of the no other purpose.
To the fullest affairs as at 31 December 2007: Business Review that is cross Remuneration Report to be extent permitted by law, we do the parent company financial referred from the Principal activities audited.
It also includes an not accept or assume responsibility statements and the part of the section of the Directors Report.
assessment of the significant to anyone other than the Remuneration Report to be estimates and judgments made Company and the Companys In addition we report to you if, audited have been properly by the directors in the preparation members as a body, for our audit in our opinion, the Company prepared in accordance with of the financial statements, and work, for this report, or for the has not kept proper accounting the Companies Act 1985: and of whether the accounting policies opinions we have formed.
records, if we have not received all the information given in the are appropriate to the Groups the information and explanations Directors Report is consistent RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES and companys circumstances, we require for our audit, or if with the financial statements.
OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS consistently applied and information specified by law The directors responsibilities for adequately disclosed.
regarding directors remuneration preparing the Annual Report and and other transactions is not We planned and performed our the Group financial statements in disclosed.
audit so as to obtain all the accordance with applicable law information and explanations and International Financial We review whether the Corporate which we considered necessary in Reporting Standards IFRSs as Governance Statement reects the order to provide us with sufficient adopted by the European Union, Companys compliance with the KPMG AUDIT PLC evidence to give reasonable and for preparing the parent nine provisions of the 2006 CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS assurance that the financial REGISTERED AUDITOR company financial statements and Combined Code specified for our statements and the part of the BRISTOL the Remuneration Report in review by the Listing Rules of the Remuneration Report to be 29 FEBRUARY 2008 accordance with applicable law Financial Services Authority, and audited are free from material and UK Accounting Standards we report if it does not.
We are misstatement, whether caused by United Kingdom Generally not required to consider whether
