Report of the Independent Auditors specified by law regarding directors statements, and of whether the accounting To the shareholders of remuneration and other transactions is policies are appropriate to the Groups and RPS Group Plc not disclosed.
Companys circumstances, consistently We have audited the Group and Parent applied and adequately disclosed.
Company financial statements the financial We review whether the Corporate statements of RPS Group Plc for the year Governance Statement reflects the We planned and performed our audit ended 31 December 2007 which comprise Companys compliance with the nine so as to obtain all the information and the Consolidated Income Statement, the provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined explanations which we considered Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Code specified for our review by the Listing necessary in order to provide us with Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Rules of the Financial Services Authority, sufficient evidence to give reasonable Statement, the Consolidated Statement of and we report if it does not.
We are not assurance that the financial statements and Recognised Income and Expense and the required to consider whether the boards the part of the Remuneration Report to be related notes.
These financial statements statements on internal control cover all audited are free from material misstatement, have been prepared under the accounting 67 risks and controls, or form an opinion on whether caused by fraud or other policies set out therein.
We have also the effectiveness of the Groups corporate irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion audited the information in the governance procedures or its risk and we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Remuneration Report that is described as control procedures.
the presentation of information in the having been audited.
financial statements and the part of the We read other information contained in Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Annual Report and consider whether Respective responsibilities of it is consistent with the audited financial directors and auditors Opinion statements.
The other information The directors responsibilities for preparing In our opinion: comprises only the Directors Report, the the Annual Report and the Group financial Five Year Summary, the Highlights, the the Group financial statements give a statements in accordance with applicable Operating and Financial Review and the true and fair view, in accordance with law and International Financial Reporting Management and Governance section, IFRS as adopted by the European Standards IFRS as adopted by the excluding that part of the Remuneration Union, of the state of the Groups European Union, and for preparing the Report to be audited.
We consider the affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of Parent Company financial statements and implications for our report if we become its profit for the year then ended: the Remuneration Report in accordance aware of any apparent misstatements or the Group financial statements have with applicable law and United Kingdom material inconsistencies with the financial been properly prepared in accordance Accounting Standards United Kingdom statements.
Our responsibilities do not with the Companies Act 1985 and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice extend to any other information.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: are set out in the Statement of Our report has been prepared pursuant to the Parent Company financial Directors Responsibilities.
the requirements of the Companies Act statements give a true and fair view, Our responsibility is to audit the 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person in accordance with United Kingdom financial statements and the part of the is entitled to rely on this report unless such Generally Accepted Accounting Remuneration Report to be audited in a person is a person entitled to rely upon Practice, of the state of the accordance with relevant legal and this report by virtue of and for the purpose Parent Companys affairs as at regulatory requirements and International of the Companies Act 1985 or has been 31 December 2007: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
expressly authorised to do so by our prior the Parent Company financial We report to you our opinion as to written consent.
Save as above, we do not statements and the part of the whether the financial statements give a true accept responsibility for this report to any Remuneration Report to be audited and fair view and whether the financial other person or for any other purpose and have been properly prepared in statements and the part of the we hereby expressly disclaim any and all accordance with the Companies Act Remuneration Report to be audited have such liability.
1985: and been properly prepared in accordance with the information given in the Directors Basis of audit opinion the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in Report is consistent with the addition, the Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance Financial Statements.
have been properly prepared in accordance with International Standards on Auditing with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Additionally, we report to you whether the Practices Board.
An audit includes BDO Stoy Hayward LLP information given in the Directors Report examination, on a test basis, of evidence Chartered Accountants and is consistent with these Financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures in Registered Auditors Statements.
We also report to you if, in our the financial statements and the part of the 55 Baker Street opinion, the Company has not kept proper Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also London accounting records, if we have not received includes an assessment of the significant W1U 7EU all the information and explanations we estimates and judgments made by the require for our audit, or if information directors in the preparation of the financial 5 March 2008 Accounts consolidated
