Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the group financial statements of SABMiller plc for Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the consolidated not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or income and expense and the related notes.
These group financial its risk and control procedures.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set We read other information contained in the Annual Report, as out therein.
described in the contents, and consider whether it is consistent with We have reported separately on the parent company financial the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications statements of SABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in information and explanations which we considered necessary in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or assurance that the group financial statements are free from material into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group Opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance In our opinion: with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, in the Directors Report is consistent with the group financial of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review and the Sustainable Development Review that is cross the group financial statements have been properly prepared in referred from the principal activities and business review section accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the of the Directors Report.
IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received the information given in the Directors Report is consistent all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if with the group financial statements.
information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined London Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 4 June 2007 Independent Auditors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 59
