120 Independent auditors report | Company Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of The Sage 11BBasis of audit opinion Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2007 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company financial Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part of that is described as having been audited.
the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of of the parent Company financial statements and of whether the accounting The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2007. policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
10BRespective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Remuneration report and the parent Company financial statements in explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited Statement of directors responsibilities.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been 12BOpinion prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
The parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2007: into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior The parent Company financial statements and the part of the consent in writing.
Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial The information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company Company financial statements.
financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Newcastle upon Tyne The information given in the Directors report includes that specific 18 January 2008 information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Business review of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans welcome, the Business review, the Directors report, the Corporate governance statement and the non-audited information in the Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
