113 Independent auditors report | Group Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Sage Group plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 30 September 2007 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards income statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
expense, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to statement, and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups of The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2007 and on circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any year then ended: other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the consent in writing.
IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements financial statements.
give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and  LLP Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the Group Newcastle upon Tyne financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes 18 January 2008 that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the Business review of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans welcome, the Business review, the Directors report, the Corporate governance statement and the non-audited information in the Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
