Independent auditors report Serco Group plc 71 Independent auditors report We report to you our opinion as to whether Independent auditors report the group financial statements give a true to the members of Serco and fair view, whether the group financial Group plc statements have been properly prepared in We have audited the group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 statements of Serco Group plc for the year and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and ended 31 December 2007 which comprise whether the part of the directors the consolidated income statement, the remuneration report described as having consolidated statement of recognised been audited has been properly prepared income and expense, the consolidated in accordance with the Companies Act balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow 1985.
We also report to you whether in our statement and the related notes 1 to 38. opinion the information given in the These group financial statements have directors report is consistent with the been prepared under the accounting group financial statements.
The information policies set out therein.
We have also given in the directors report includes that audited the information in the directors specific information presented in the remuneration report that is described as chairmans statement and the business having been audited.
review that is cross referred from the directors report.
We have reported separately on the In addition we report to you if, in our parent company financial statements of opinion, we have not received all the Serco Group plc for the year ended 31 information and explanations we require December 2007. for our audit, or if information specified by This report is made solely to the law regarding directors remuneration and companys members, as a body, in other transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with section 235 of the We review whether the corporate Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has governance statement reflects the been undertaken so that we might state companys compliance with the nine to the companys members those matters provisions of the 2006 Combined Code we are required to state to them in an specified for our review by the Listing auditors report and for no other purpose.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we and we report if it does not.
We are not do not accept or assume responsibility to required to consider whether the boards anyone other than the company and the statements on internal control cover all companys members as a body, for our risks and controls, or form an opinion on audit work, for this report, or for the the effectiveness of the groups corporate opinions we have formed.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual review and accounts, the directors remuneration report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
72 Serco Group plc Independent auditors report We read the other information contained Opinion in the annual review and accounts as In our opinion: described in the contents section and the group financial statements give a consider whether it is consistent with the true and fair view, in accordance with audited group financial statements.
The IFRS as adopted by the European other information comprises only the Union, of the state of the groups affairs directors report, the chairmans as at 31 December 2007 and of its statement, the unaudited part of the profit for the year then ended: directors remuneration report, the business review and the corporate the group financial statements have governance statement.
We consider the been properly prepared in accordance implications for our report if we become with the Companies Act 1985 and aware of any apparent misstatements or Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: material inconsistencies with the group the part of the directors remuneration financial statements.
Our responsibilities report described as having been audited do not extend to any further information has been properly prepared in outside the annual review and accounts.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors Basis of audit opinion report is consistent with the group We conducted our audit in accordance financial statements.
with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report Deloitte & Touche LLP to be audited.
It also includes an Chartered Accountants and Registered assessment of the significant estimates Auditors and judgments made by the directors in London the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the 27 February 2008 accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
