SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 88 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SeverfieldRowen Plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of SeverfieldRowen Basis of audit opinion Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Balance Sheet and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing the related notes 1 to 14.
These parent Company financial statements have been UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of SeverfieldRowen Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall anyone other than the Company, and the Companys members as a body, for our adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent Opinion Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United In our opinion: Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements in the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial Company financial statements.
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The information Deloitte & Touche LLP given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Chairmans Statement, Operational Review, Financial Review, and Corporate Leeds Social Responsibility sections that is cross-referred from the Principal Activity and 2 May 2008 Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review
