SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 52 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SeverfieldRowen Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of SeverfieldRowen Plc for the We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, and the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group related notes 1 to 37.
These Group financial statements have been prepared financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the outside the annual report.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Severfield-Rowen Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007. examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
anyone other than the Company, and the Companys members as a body, for our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Opinion Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act information presented in the Chairmans Statement, Operational Review, Financial 1985: and Review, and Corporate Social Responsibility sections that is cross-referred from the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Groups the Principal Activity and Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the Deloitte & Touche LLP information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Leeds We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys 2 May 2008 compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review
