Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the group and parent company in our opinion the information given in the report to be audited are free from material financial statements the financial statements Directors report is consistent with the financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or of Associated British Foods plc for the year statements.
The information given in the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion ended 15 September 2007 which comprise Directors report includes that specific we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the the consolidated income statement, the information that is cross referred from the presentation of information in the financial consolidated and parent company balance Business review section of the Directors report.
statements and the part of the Remuneration sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, report to be audited.
the consolidated statement of changes in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, equity, the parent company reconciliation of the Company has not kept proper accounting Opinion movements in equity shareholders funds, and records, if we have not received all the information In our opinion: the related notes.
These financial statements and explanations we require for our audit, have been prepared under the accounting or if information specified by law regarding the consolidated financial statements give policies set out therein.
We have also audited directors remuneration and other transactions a true and fair view, in accordance with the information in the Remuneration report is not disclosed.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of that is described as having been audited.
the groups affairs as at 15 September 2007 We review whether the corporate governance and of its profit for the year then ended: This report is made solely to the Companys statement reflects the Companys compliance members, as a body, in accordance with section with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined the consolidated financial statements have 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules been properly prepared in accordance with has been undertaken so that we might state to of the Financial Services Authority, and we report the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the Companys members those matters we are if it does not.
We are not required to consider IAS Regulation: required to state to them in an auditors report whether the boards statements on internal and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent control cover all risks and controls, or form the parent company financial statements permitted by law, we do not accept or assume an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups give a true and fair view, in accordance with responsibility to anyone other than the Company corporate governance procedures or its risk UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and the Companys members as a body, for our and control procedures.
of the state of the parent companys affairs audit work, for this report, or for the opinions as at 15 September 2007: we have formed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is the parent company financial statements and Respective responsibilities of directors and consistent with the audited financial statements.
the part of the Remuneration report to be auditors We consider the implications for our report if we audited have been properly prepared in The directors responsibilities for preparing become aware of any apparent misstatements accordance with the Companies Act 1985: the annual report and the group financial or material inconsistencies with the financial and statements in accordance with applicable law statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend and International Financial Reporting Standards to any other information.
the information given in the Directors report IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing is consistent with the financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and Basis of audit opinion the directors remuneration report in accordance We conducted our audit in accordance with KPMG Audit Plc with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards International Standards on Auditing UK and Chartered Accountants UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Registered Auditor are set out in the statement of directors An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 8 Salisbury Square responsibilities on page 46. of evidence relevant to the amounts and London disclosures in the financial statements and the EC4Y 8BB Our responsibility is to audit the financial part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
statements and the part of the directors It also includes an assessment of the significant 6 November 2007 remuneration report to be audited in accordance estimates and judgments made by the directors with relevant legal and regulatory requirements in the preparation of the financial statements, and International Standards on Auditing and of whether the accounting policies are UK and Ireland.
appropriate to the groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and We report to you our opinion as to whether the adequately disclosed.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of We planned and performed our audit so as the directors remuneration report to be audited to obtain all the information and explanations have been properly prepared in accordance which we considered necessary in order to with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards provide us with sufficient evidence to give the group financial statements, Article 4 of the reasonable assurance that the financial IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether statements and the part of the Remuneration Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
