INDEPENDENT AUDITORS US REPORTS Report of Independent RegisteredPublic Accounting Firm to the Board of Directorsand Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2007 and 2006, and the related Group income statements, Group statements of recognised income and expense and Group cash flow statements for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2007.
These accounts are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these accountsbased onouraudits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the accounts are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the accounts, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Webelieve that ouraudits providea reasonable basis forouropinion.
In our opinion, the accounts referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Smith & Nephew plc at 31 December 2007 and 2006, and the consolidated results of its operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2007, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and  as adopted by the EuropeanUnion.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the effectiveness of Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated 18 March 2008 expressed .
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 18March2008 77 Group Accounts Report of Independent RegisteredPublic Accounting Firm to the Board of Directorsand Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission the COSO criteria.
Smith & Nephew plcs management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 57.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the  onouraudit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that ouraudit provides a reasonable basis forouropinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or dispositionofthe companysassets that couldhave a material effect onthe financialstatements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the .
As indicated in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 57, Managements assessment of and conclusionon the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the Plus entities which are included in the 2007 consolidated accounts of Smith & Nephew plc and constituted 8% and 13% of total and net assets as of 31 December 2007 and 6% and 17% loss of revenues and attributable profit, respectively, for the year then ended.
Our audit of internal controls over financial reporting of Smith & Nephew plc also did not include an evaluation of the internal controls over  Plus entities.
In our opinion, Smith & Nephew plc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reportingas of31 December2007, based onthe COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2007 and 2006, and the related Group income statements, Group statements of recognised income and expense and Group cash flow statements for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2007 and our report dated 18 March 2008expressed .
Ernst & Young LLP London, England 18March2008 78
