INDEPENDENT AUDITORS UK REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholdersof Smith & Nephewplc We have audited the Group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense, and the related Notes 1 to 41.
These Group accounts have been prepared underthe  outtherein.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31December2007 and onthe informationinthe RemunerationReport that is described as havingbeen audited.
This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, forouraudit work, forthis report, orforthe opinionswe have formed.
 Directorsand Auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EuropeanUnionas set outinthe  forthe Accounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group accounts in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements  onAuditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group accounts give a true and fair view, the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordancewith the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group accounts.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Introduction and Financial Summary that is cross referenced from the Operating and Financial Review section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code, Principles of Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opiniononthe effectiveness of the Groups  .
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group accounts.
The other information comprises only the Financial Summary, the Description of the Group, the Operating and Financial Review, Liquidity and Prospects, the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend .
Basisof Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidencerelevant tothe amountsand disclosures in the Group accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate tothe Groups circumstances, consistentlyapplied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion wealso evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of informationinthe Groupaccounts.
75 Group Accounts Opinion Inouropinionthe Groupaccounts: give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union of the state of the Groupsaffairs as at 31 December2007 and of its profit forthe year thenended: the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 ofthe IAS Regulation:and the  directorsreport is consistentwiththe Groupaccounts.
Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the Group Accounts, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International AccountingStandards Board.
In our opinion the Group Accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31December2007 and of its profit forthe year thenended.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London, England 18March2008 76
