Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of SOCO International plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of the financial statements of SOCO International plc for the year any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further statement, the consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, information outside the Annual Report.
the consolidated and parent Company cash flow statements, the consolidated and parent Company statements of recognised income basis of audit oPinion and expense, the statement of accounting policies and the related We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Notes 1 to 33.
These financial statements have been prepared under on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of having been audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether resPective resPonsibilities of directors and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we auditors also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Report to be audited.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the oPinion Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: 4 the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards for the year then ended: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
4 the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Act 1985, of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have December 2007: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 4 the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that 4 the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the specific information presented in the Chairmans and Chief Executives financial statements.
Statement, the Review of Operations and the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Principal Activity and Enhanced Business Deloitte & Touche LLP Review section of the Directors Report.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the United Kingdom information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 25 March 2008 specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
