Independent auditors report to the members of Spectris plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Spectris plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 December 2007, which comprise the consolidated income statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on described as having been audited.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are be audited.
set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 34.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Opinion the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with In our opinion: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance on Auditing UK and Ireland.
with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups affairs as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the the group financial statements have been properly prepared in part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and as Regulation: regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, We also report to you, whether in our opinion the information given in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: The information given in the Directors report includes that specific the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors information presented in the Operating and Financial review that is remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in cross-referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the financial statements.
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions KPMG Audit Plc is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Registered Auditor companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined 8 Salisbury Square Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services London EC4Y 8BB Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 22 February 2008 whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
42 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007
