Independent auditors report to the members of SSL International plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of SSL International plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the Consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statement of cash flows, the Consolidated statement of recognised statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
income and expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Basis of audit also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on described as having been audited.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice be audited.
are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 46.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the In our opinion: Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance UK and Ireland.
with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: to you whether in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the remuneration report to be audited, have been properly prepared in Directors report includes that information presented in the Chairmans accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and message, Chief Executives review and Financial review that is crossthe information given in the Directors report is consistent with the referenced from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept KPMG Audit Plc proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information Chartered Accountants and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Registered Auditor regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
8 Salisbury Square We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the London EC4Y 8BB Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined 21 May 2007 Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
