Independent auditors report to the members of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc We have audited the group and parent company financial We consider the implications for our report if we become aware statements the financial statements of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the any other information.
Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Basis of audit opinion Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
These financial statements have been prepared under An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also described as having been audited.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in adequately disclosed.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in Opinion giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other In our opinion: purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, our prior consent in writing.
of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended: information given in the Other Statutory Information section is consistent with the financial statements.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if IAS Regulation: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and the information given in the Other Statutory Information other transactions is not disclosed.
section is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement  LLP reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing London Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
29 February 2008 We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its Notes: risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the Taylor Nelson Sofres plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does We read other information contained in the Annual Report not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The other information comprises only: Understanding Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the big issues: the Directors Report Business Review: the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Directors Report Governance and Shareholder Information.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55
