Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc We have audited the group financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc for the year Basis of audit opinion ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures 1 to 40 and the reconciliation of changes in shareholders equity.
These group in the group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial Report that is described as having been audited.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements and with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this to be audited.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In our opinion: The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the group financial statements in accordance with the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance with the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: UK and Ireland.
the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and a true and fair view, whether the group financial statements have been properly the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the group prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS financial statements.
Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Directors Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
The information As explained in the accounting policies note to the group financial statements, given in the Directors Report includes that specic information presented in the the group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs Chief Executives Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued of the Directors Report.
by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the Deloitte & Touche LLP contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware London, UK of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial 5 March 2008 statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
