42 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and not relevant for the Group and Companys operations The following interpretations to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the Group and Companys accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008 or later periods but are not relevant for the Groups operations: I IFRIC 12, Service concession arrangements effective from 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 12 applies to contractual arrangements whereby a private sector operator participates in the development, nancing, operation and maintenance of infrastructure for public sector services.
IFRIC 12 is not relevant to the Group or Companys operations because none of the Groups companies provide public sector services.
I IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective from 1 July 2008.
IFRIC 13 claries that where goods or services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive for example, loyalty points or free products, the arrangement is a multipleelement arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer is allocated between the components of the arrangement using fair values.
IFRIC 13 is not relevant to the Group or Companys operations because none of the Groups companies operate any loyalty programmes.
I IFRIC 14, IA S 19, The limit on a dened benefit asset, minimum funding requirements and their interaction effective from 1 January 2008.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing the limit in IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum funding requirement.
As the Group does not have any dened benefit pension schemes this interpretation is not expected to have any impact on the Group or Companys accounts.
I IA S 23 amendment, Borrowing costs effective from 1 January 2009.
The amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the European Union.
It requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale as part of the cost of that asset.
The option of immediately expensing those borrowing costs will be removed.
The Group will apply IAS 23 amended from 1 January 2009, subject to endorsement by the EU.
This is not expected to have an impact on the Group as interest is already capitalised in respect of major capital projects when the relevant conditions are met.
Firsttime adoption of IFRS These financial statements are covered by IFRS 1, Firsttime adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, as they are the Companys first full set of IFRS financial statements.
The date of transition and adoption to IFRS for Telecity Group plc is 1 January 2006.
The Group has taken the following exemption available to rsttime adopters: I to apply IFRS 2, Sharebased payment, retrospectively only to awards made after 7 November 2002 that had not vested at 1 January 2005.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
The acquired identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated but considered an impairment indicator of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is recorded as an intangible asset.
Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cashgenerating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashgenerating units or groups of cashgenerating units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business segment in each country in which it operates.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, the main assumptions used when performing the impairment test are set out in note 10.
Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires an estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the cashgenerating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, represent customer contracts acquired during business combinations.
The customer contracts are initially recognised at fair value, in the currency in which the related cash flows are expected to be denominated, and amortised over estimated useful economic lives of between 10 and 20 years.
The fair value is calculated by estimating the future cash flows expected to arise from the intangible asset and applying a suitable discount rate.
