GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Tesco PLC We read other information contained in the Annual Report for the year ended 24 February 2007 which comprise the Group and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash financial statements.
The other information comprises only Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income the Directors Report, the Operating and Financial Review and Expense and the related notes.
These Group financial and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent set out therein.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial any other information.
statements of Tesco PLC for the year ended 24 February 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Basis of audit opinion that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and the Group financial statements in accordance with Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This information and explanations which we considered necessary report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give for the Companys members as a body in accordance with reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other are free from material misstatement, whether caused by purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come information in the Group financial statements.
save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion: financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with of the state of the Groups affairs as at 24 February 2007 the Group financial statements.
The information given in the and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Directors Report includes that specific information presented the Group financial statements have been properly in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not the information given in the Directors Report is consistent received all the information and explanations we require for with the financial statements.
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions London 16 April 2007 of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
