1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 14 15 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Thomas Basis of audit opinion Cook Group plc for the year ended 31 October 2007, which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 13.
These parent company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to set out therein.
the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent of Thomas Cook Group plc for the year ended 31 October 2007 company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors company financial statements to be audited are free from material report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Company and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors In our opinion: The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2007: of Directors Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the information given in the Group Directors Report is consistent with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the parent company financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company  LLP financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion London the information given in the Group Directors Report is consistent with the 30 January 2008 parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Group Directors Report comprises the information supplied in the Chairmans Deloitte & Touche LLP Statement, the Chief Executives Strategy Statement, the Business Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Social Responsibility Manchester Report as cross-referenced from the Liability section of the Group 30 January 2008 Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|115
