1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 12 13 14 15 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Thomas Cook Group We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as plc for the year ended 31 October 2007, which comprise the Group Income described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements notes 1 to 38.
These Group financial statements have been prepared or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards of Thomas Cook Group plc for the year ended 31 October 2007. on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements made by the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the of Directors Responsibilities.
Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements and the Report to be audited.
part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with Opinion relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements and the affairs as at 31 October 2007 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly then ended: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Group Directors with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having given in the Group Directors Report comprises the information supplied in been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Strategy Statement, the Companies Act 1985: and Business Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Social the information given in the Group Directors Report is consistent with the Responsibility Report as cross-referenced from the Liability section of the Group Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received  LLP all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors if information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration London and other transactions is not disclosed.
30 January 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Deloitte & Touche LLP Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Manchester consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all 30 January 2008 risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|65
