qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAVIS PERKINS PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial given in the Directors report includes that specific statements the financial statements of Travis Perkins plc information presented in the Chairmans statement, the for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Chief Executives review of the year, the Chief Operating Group and Parent Company Income Statements, the Group Officers review of the year and the Finance Directors and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent review of the year that is cross referred from the Business Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Review section of the Directors report.
Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the and the related notes 1 to 37.
These financial statements Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have been prepared under the accounting policies set out have not received all the information and explanations we therein.
We have also audited the information in the require for our audit, or if information specified by law Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the so that we might state to the Companys members those Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report if it does not.
We are not required to consider report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness to anyone other than the Company and the Companys of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or and control procedures.
for the opinions we have formed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF whether it is consistent with the audited financial DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS statements.
We consider the implications for our report if The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our financial statements in accordance with applicable law and responsibilities do not extend to any further information International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as outside the Annual Report.
adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and We conducted our audit in accordance with International the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and Ireland.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also statements give a true and fair view and whether the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and financial statements and the part of the Directors judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly financial statements, and of whether the accounting prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, policies are appropriate to the Groups and Parent as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our adequately disclosed.
opinion the information given in the Directors report is We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain consistent with the financial statements.
The information all the information and explanations which we considered 69 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 70 necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence The information given in the Directors Report is to give reasonable assurance that the financial consistent with the financial statements.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, Report to be audited are free from material the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligations misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of International Accounting Standards Board.
information in the financial statements and the part of the In our opinion the group financial statements give a true Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit OPINION for the year then ended.
In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the Parent Deloitte & Touche LLP Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the year Birmingham, United Kingdom then ended: 3 March 2008 The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and 70 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPOR T
