51 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRINITY MIRROR PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Trinity Mirror plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 which comprise the as described in the contents section and consider whether consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
recognised income and expenses, the consolidated balance sheet, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware the consolidated cash flow statement, and the related notes 1 to 42. of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies These Group financial statements have been prepared under the with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have reported separately on the parent company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements of Trinity Mirror plc for the 52 weeks ended An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant 30 December 2007. to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are members those matters we are required to state to them in an appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequately disclosed.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions information and explanations which we considered necessary we have formed.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the statements in accordance with applicable law and International presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial state of the Groups affairs as at 30 December 2007 and of its statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial profit for the 52 weeks then ended: statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared information given in the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration IAS Regulation: Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the Companies Act 1985: and Group financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if As explained in note 2 to the Group financial statements, information specified by law, regarding directors remuneration and the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation other transactions, is not disclosed.
to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Accounting Standards Board.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement as at 30 December 2007 and of its profit for the 52 weeks on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on then ended.
the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 28 February 2008 Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
