96 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRINITY MIRROR PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Trinity Mirror plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards which comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 16. on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant under the accounting policies set out therein.
to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant We have reported separately on the Group financial statements estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of Trinity Mirror plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2007 of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as being audited.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors In our opinion: The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 December 2007: set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Deloitte & Touche LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, 28 February 2008 in our opinion, the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
