Independent auditors report to the members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which as described in the contents section and consider whether it comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 12. is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial These Parent Company financial statements have been statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial We have reported separately on the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December information outside the Annual Report.
2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in state to the Companys members those matters we are the Parent Company financial statements.
It also includes an required to state to them in an auditors report and for no assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do by the Directors in the preparation of the Parent Company not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report the information and explanations which we considered and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are financial statements are free from material misstatement, set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory of the presentation of information in the Parent Company requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK financial statements.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company In our opinion: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company financial statements give a true and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements have been In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has properly prepared in accordance with the Companies not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Act 1985: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the information given in the Directors Report is consistent and other transactions is not disclosed.
with the Parent Company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 11 March 2008 99 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
