56 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance statement continued Internal control The Board is responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The system is intended to enable the Group to identify and manage the risks inherent in its business and accordingly can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
A formal process is in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the key financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the Group.
This risk mapping process, which was in place throughout 2007 and continues in force, accords with the Turnbull guidance issued in September 1999 and is reviewed annually by the Board.
The process, which is undertaken at a divisional level, aims to identify and evaluate risks which are specific to each of the Groups businesses.
The results are co-ordinated by the internal audit department, reviewed centrally by senior management, and considered by the Audit Committee, which in turn reports to the Board.
The process established for the Group includes the following: All staff are required to comply with a formal system of delegated authorities which is in place for all divisions and head office.
Further guidance on Group policies and procedures is set out in various manuals including the financial policies and procedures manual, Group policy manual and employee handbooks.
An anti-malpractice policy is in place throughout the Group which provides a mechanism for confidential reporting by staff of possible concerns about financial or other matters.
Treasury operations and taxation matters are considered by the Finance Committee, a management committee which operates within specified delegated authorities and reports to the Board.
Meetings are customarily attended by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, deputy CFO, Company Secretary, Head of Taxation and Head of Treasury.
The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, with the annual budget being approved by the Board and monthly trading results, balance sheets and cashflow summaries recorded against corresponding figures for the budget and the previous year.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for certifying the Companys annual financial statements, which process is supported by certification for the individual businesses from divisional CEOs and finance directors.
Established procedures are in place for the evaluation of potential acquisitions and their integration into the Group, including the provision of detailed business plans and monitoring of post-acquisition performance against such plans.
The internal audit department undertakes periodic reviews of individual businesses to assess their control status and makes recommendations to the Audit Committee.
The work of the internal audit department is prioritised to concentrate on the areas of greatest risk as identified through the Group risk management process.
The Head of Internal Audit attends meetings of the Audit Committee, which oversees the role and structure of the internal audit department and makes recommendations to management.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Adair Turner and its other members are John Botts, Jonathan Newcomb and Christopher Hyman, all of whom are nonexecutive directors.
John Botts is not considered to be independent under the Combined Code as he has been a member of the Board for more than nine years.
However, in view of his financial skills and experience it is considered appropriate that he should be a member of the Committee.
Following his appointment as Chairman of the Board John Botts has remained on the Committee pending a review of Board and committee membership to be carried out during 2008.
Members of the Committee have broad financial experience which has been gained in a variety of disciplines, and which the Board considers appropriate to enable the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee meets at least four times a year: it met on four occasions during 2007 and details of individual attendance are set out in the table on page 54.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides a verbal report to the Board following each Committee meeting and the minutes of Committee meetings are made available to other Board members.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and others invited to attend Committee meetings include the Chief Financial Officer, deputy CFO, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation and external auditors.
The Committee also meets at least once a year with external auditors without management present.
The Committee operates within written terms of reference, which are reviewed periodically.
These terms of reference may be viewed on the Companys website.
To assist in ensuring auditor objectivity and independence, the Audit Committee has established a formal procedure regarding the undertaking of non-audit services by the external auditor, which identifies a number of categories of work where the auditors will not normally be employed, including financial due diligence on potential acquisitions and financial systems consultancy.
Appointment of the external auditor for other non-audit services may only be made with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Approval for projects with anticipated fees not exceeding specified limits is delegated to the Chief Financial Officer or deputy CFO and is reported to the Committee.
During 2007, the Audit Committee reviewed draft interim and annual reports, focusing on key issues of accounting policy and judgement: reviewed the Operating and Financial Review section of the 2006 annual report with specific reference to the description of key performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group: reviewed the Groups risk mapping process and considered specific areas of commercial risk identified through that process: received reports from the internal audit department: considered post acquisition reviews conducted in respect of businesses acquired by the Group: and reviewed the status of a number of major projects being implemented within the Groups divisions.
