Independent auditors report Group To the members of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc We have audited the Group financial statements the Group financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the related notes numbered 1 to 29 and the statement of Group accounting policies.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
The Corporate governance statement and the Directors Remuneration report are included in the individual Company Annual Report of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration report included in the Annual Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Directors report.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section and we consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Independent auditors report Group continued The Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading, United Kingdom 22 February 2008 Notes: An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the Directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 Financials Group
