Financial statements continued Auditors report Netherlands Independent auditors report to the shareholders An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence of Unilever N. V. about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated accounts.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, Report on the consolidated accounts including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement We have audited the consolidated accounts which are part of of the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error.
In the Annual Report 2007 of the Unilever Group for the year ended making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash ow of the consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose expense and the related notes on pages 69 to 121 and 125 to of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys 126.
These consolidated accounts have been prepared under the internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages 72 to 76. appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Directors, We have reported separately on the company accounts of as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated Unilever N. V. for the year ended 31 December 2007. accounts.
Directors responsibility We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
presentation of the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Opinion European Union and as issued by the International Accounting In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and Standards Board and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands fair view of the financial position of the Unilever Group as at Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Directors 31 December 2007, and of its result and its cash ows for the in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil year then ended in accordance with International Financial Code.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and presentation of the consolidated accounts that are free from with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making Report on other legal and regulatory requirements accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Pursuant to the legal requirement under 2:393 sub 5 part e of the Netherlands Civil Code, we report, to the extent of our Auditors responsibility competence, that the Report of the Directors is consistent with Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated the consolidated accounts as required by 2:391 sub 4 of the accounts based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in Netherlands Civil Code.
This law requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated accounts Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 10 March 2008 are free from material misstatement.
 Accountants N. V. Prof Dr J A van Manen RA Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67 Financial statements continued Auditors report United Kingdom Independent auditors report to the shareholders of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated Unilever PLC on the consolidated accounts We have audited the consolidated accounts of the Unilever accounts.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors and the Shareholder information.
We consider the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet, implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated consolidated cash ow statement, consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes on pages accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These consolidated accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set out in note 1 on pages 72 to 76.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company accounts of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Unilever PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, information in the Report of the Remuneration Committee that of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the consolidated accounts, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the consolidated accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable page 66, and on page 136.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
assurance that the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated accounts in error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the consolidated accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the shareholders of Unilever PLC as a body in accordance with Opinion Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other In our opinion: purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view, in whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated the consolidated accounts have been properly prepared in accounts give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated accordance with the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also the information given in the Report of the Directors is report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the consistent with the consolidated accounts.
Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated accounts.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not As explained in note 1 to the consolidated accounts, the Group in received all the information and explanations we require for addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors as adopted by the European Union has also complied with IFRS as remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion the consolidated accounts give a true and fair reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Accounting Standards Board, of the state of the Groups affairs as Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority, and at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash ows for the year we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether then ended.
the Directors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 10 March 2008 68 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
