SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 49 Statement on Sustainable Development Report for 200607 1.
Background and Responsibilities At the request of Vedanta Resources Plc.
Ltd. PwC has reviewed Vedantas Sustainable Development Report Report for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, related to its Occupational Health, Safety and Environment HSE performance on sample basis at select operations, with a view to provide an independent statement on the non-financial information contained in this Report.
The management of Vedanta is responsible for the collection and presentation of information on HSE performance in the Report.
Our responsibility, as agreed with the management, is to express conclusions in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE 3000 based on limited review of select HSE data and information contained in the Report.
Scope of Review The scope of the review included: a Verification of primary information on sample basis for certain statements and data relating to Vedantas HSE performance through site visits to BALCO Korba Complex, HZL CLZS Complex at Chanderiya and Zawar Mining Complex and Sterlite Industries India Limited Tuticorin and providing limited review in respect of these statements and data.
b Checking monthly HSE performance data trends for the Vedanta operations based on secondary information provided on monthly HSE data represented in Vedantas Management Information System MIS to support reliability of disclosures made in the Report.
c Assessment whether the Report provides an appropriate representation of existing policies on HSE.
d Checking of data on sample basis for the following indicators: n Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR, total injuries and work related fatalities.
n Direct energy consumption fuel used.
n Indirect energy consumption electricity purchased.
n Total water withdrawal by source.
n Air emissions SO and fluorides.
2 n Total weight of wastes by type and disposal method.
Scope Limitation The following were excluded from the scope of our work on information relating to: n Any financial information, data and or statement.
n Statements of commitment to, or intention to undertake action in the future.
n Statements of opinion, belief and or aspiration.
Approach We planned and performed our work in accordance with the ISAE 3000 to obtain limited review on sample basis.
We sought all information and explanations that we considered necessary to provide us with sufficient evidence for ascertaining that the above mentioned indicators were consistent with the activities at the Vedanta units for the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, and were documented and stated in accordance with the guidelines stated under their HSE policies.
Parties responsible for HSE Verification The verification exercise was completed by PwCs team under the guidance and supervision of Mr Tapan Ray Executive Director and managed by Mr Rahul Kar.
Conclusion a The Vedanta senior management is committed to sustainable development based on our limited review of its HSE performance.
b Vedanta has attempted to report its sustainable development performance as per requirements of GRI Global Reporting Initiative GRI 2006 guidelines G3 which demonstrates its managements focus on transparency, clarity and purpose.
c During our review, we have not noticed any misrepresentation of HSE information that we reviewed, and the information presented on HSE parameters reviewed by us appears to be a fair and balanced representation.
 P LTD. Mumbai, India 14 May 2007 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
