56 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Venture Production plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the the financial statements of Venture Production plc for the year ended Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks Statements of Recognised Income and Expenses and the related notes.
and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Report.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Basis of Audit Opinion the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial The information given in the Directors Report includes the specific statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to information presented in the Business and Operational Review and be audited.
Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57 Opinion In our opinion: The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended.
The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended.
The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Aberdeen 17 March 2008 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Venture Production plc website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
