OUR GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF COOKSON GROUP PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of Cookson Group plc for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Income Statement, the Group and parent company Balance become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group Statement inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These do not extend to any other information.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in Basis of audit opinion the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with International been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Companys members those matters we are required to state to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the financial statements and the part of the and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other by the EU IFRSs, and for preparing the parent company irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in Report to be audited.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 42.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Opinion the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the IAS Regulation: Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the parent company financial statements give a true and fair statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The 31 December 2007: information given in the Directors Report includes that specific the parent company financial statements and the part of the information presented in the Operating and Financial Reviews Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Directors Report.
1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company the information given in the Directors Report is consistent has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received with the financial statements.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of KPMG Audit Plc the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Chartered Accountants are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on Registered Auditor internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on London the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 11 March 2008 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Cookson Group plc 49 Annual Report 2007
