Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VICTREX PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Victrex plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
30 September 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Statements of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Basis of audit opinion policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration of Directors Responsibilities on page 23.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of Opinion the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with In our opinion: relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Groups affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of its profit for the year give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the then ended: part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given Parent Companys affairs as at 30 September 2007: in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Annual Business Review that is cross the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and, referenced from the Annual Business Review section of the Directors Report.
The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined KPMG Audit Plc Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Chartered Accountants Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required Registered Auditor to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover 10 December 2007 all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
