Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vodafone Group Plc We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements of Vodafone Basis of audit opinion Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on sheet and the related notes numbered 1 to 10.
These parent Company Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Financial Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts out therein.
and disclosures in the parent Company Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made The corporate governance statement and the directors remuneration by the directors in the preparation of the parent Company Financial report are included in the Group annual report of Vodafone Group Plc for Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the the year ended 31 March 2007.
We have reported separately on the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Consolidated Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the information in the directors remuneration We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and report that is described as having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law parent Company Financial Statements.
and United Kingdom Accounting standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant the parent Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in financial reporting framework and whether the parent Company Financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the Company Financial Statements.
information given in the directors report is consistent with the parent Company Financial Statements.
We also report to you, if in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We read the directors report and the other information contained in the London annual report for the above year as described in the contents section and United Kingdom consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company Financial 29 May 2007 Statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibility does not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 149 Financials
