VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF VT GROUP PLC For the year ended 31 March 2007 We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of VT Group plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any of Recognised Income and Expense, and the related notes.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also companys members those matters we are required to state to includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the to anyone other than the company and the companys members groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and assurance that the financial statements and the part of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act IAS Regulation: 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: Report includes that specific information presented in the Business the parent company financial statements and the part of the Review section and Corporate Responsibility Report that is Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly cross-referred from the Directors report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information financial statements.
specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the KPMG Audit Plc Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal Chartered Accountants control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Registered Auditor effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 14 May 2007 risk and control procedures.
