Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial of The Weir Group PLC statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial We have audited the Group financial statements of The Weir Highlights 2007, 2007 Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007 which Our Geographic Footprint, the Chief Executives Review, the comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Operational Review, the Financial Review, the Board of Directors, Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income & Expense and Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report, the related notes 1 to 32.
These Group financial statements have the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
We consider the We have reported separately on the Company financial statements implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group 2007 and on the information in the Remuneration Committee financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Company's members those matters we are required to state Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the preparation of the Group financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United information and explanations which we considered necessary in Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the assurance that the Group financial statements are free from Directors Statement of Responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 December 2007 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes information that is contained in the Chairmans the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operational Review, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Financial Review and the Corporate Social Responsibility the IAS Regulation: and Report that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not with the Group financial statements.
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects Ernst & Young LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Registered Auditor Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Glasgow the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We 11 March 2008 are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 47
