Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of the Operational Review, the Financial Review, the Board of Directors, The Weir Group PLC the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report, We have audited the Company financial statements of The Weir the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee Report and Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007 which the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
We consider the comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 1 to 15.
These Company financial statements have been prepared misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to the information in the Remuneration Committee Report that is any other information.
described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Basis of audit opinion of The Weir Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report Company's members those matters we are required to state to to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility of the Company financial statements and of whether the to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors & auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Remuneration Committee Report and the Company financial assurance that the Company financial statements and the part statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are free and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors Statement irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated of Responsibilities.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements Committee Report to be audited.
and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance as at 28 December 2007: with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the Company financial statements and the part of the consistent with the Company financial statements.
The information Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been given in the Directors Report includes information that is contained properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act in the Charmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the 1985: and Operational Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report that is cross referred from the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the annual report and Registered Auditor consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company Glasgow financial statements.
The other information comprises only 11 March 2008 the Financial Highlights 2007, 2007 Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, Our Geographic Footprint, the Chief Executives Review, The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 97
