INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO ThE MEMbERS Of Wh SMITh PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of WH Smith PLC We consider the implications for our report if we become aware for the year ended 31 August 2007 which comprise the Group of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense, extend to any further information outside the annual report.
the reconciliation of movements in equity and the related notes 1 to 33.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under bASIS Of AUDIT OPINION the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards information in the directors remuneration report that is described on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements We have reported separately on the individual Company financial and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2007.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the and adequately disclosed.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility information and explanations which we considered necessary to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the we have formed.
directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
RESPECTIvE RESPONSIbILITIES Of DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the the directors remuneration report and the Group financial part of the directors remuneration report described to be audited.
statements in accordance with applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the directors OPINION responsibilities statement.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2007 and of its profit and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
for the year then ended: and the Group financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial the IAS Regulation: statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the part of the directors remuneration report described as Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance whether the part of the directors remuneration report described with the Companies Act 1985: and as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance the information given in the directors report is consistent with with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in the Group financial statements.
our opinion, the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IfRSs given in the directors report includes that specific information As explained in Note 1 of the Group financial statements, the Group, presented in the Business Review and the Financial Review that in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with is cross-referred from the directors report.
In addition we also IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Board.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair information specified by law regarding directors remuneration view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs and other transactions is not disclosed.
as at 31 August 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Deloitte & Touche LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of London the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
11 October 2007 We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an Notes: Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information procedures or its risk and control procedures.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area We read the other information contained in the annual report Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and as described in the contents section and consider whether it dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Wh Smith PLC 41
