INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WH SMITH PLC We have audited the individual Company financial Basis of audit opinion statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 We conducted our audit in accordance with International August 2007 which comprise the Company balance sheet Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the and the related notes 1 to 6.
These individual Company Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, financial statements have been prepared under the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts accounting policies set out therein.
and disclosures in the individual Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the We have reported separately on the Group financial significant estimates and judgements made by the statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August directors in the preparation of the individual Company 2007 and on the information in the directors remuneration financial statements, and of whether the accounting report that is described as having been audited.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been the information and explanations which we considered undertaken so that we might state to the Companys necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence members those matters we are required to state to them to give reasonable assurance that the individual Company in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the financial statements are free from material misstatement, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall and the Companys members as a body, for our audit adequacy of the presentation of information in the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual In our opinion: report, the directors remuneration report and the the individual Company financial statements give a individual Company financial statements in accordance true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted of the Companys affairs as at 31 August 2007: Accounting Practice are set out in the directors the individual Company financial statements have been responsibilities statement.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Our responsibility is to audit the individual Company the information given in the directors report is financial statements and the part of the directors consistent with the financial statements.
remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Deloitte & Touche LLP International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We report to you our opinion as to whether the individual 11 October 2007 Company financial statements give a true and fair Notes: Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance view and whether the individual Company financial and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in statements have been properly prepared in accordance particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area whether, in our opinion, the directors report is Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and consistent with the individual Company financial dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our other jurisdictions.
opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited individual Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the individual Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 78
