02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:39 am Page 39 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 39 Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual report and the financial statements of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC for financial statements and consider whether it is consistent with the the 53 weeks ended 4 February 2007 which comprise the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and Parent report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by information in the Directors remuneration report that is described the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test as having been audited.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Group Annual report that the financial statements and the part of the Directors and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and remuneration report to be audited are free from material International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
EU, and for preparing the Parent Company financial statements and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law presentation of information in the financial statements and the part and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities Opinion In our opinion: on page 23. the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with Groups affairs as at 4 February 2007 and of its profit for the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 53 weeks then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Regulation: part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 4 February 2007: in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the The information given in the Directors report includes that specific Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly information presented in the Chief Executives operating review and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Financial review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration KPMG Audit Plc and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Leeds the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 14 March 2007 Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
