Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Wolseley plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and for the year ended 31 July 2007 which comprise the Group income consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors the Group statement of recognised income and expense and the report, the Directors Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared the Group Chief Executives review, the Performance review and under the accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements We have reported separately on the parent company financial or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2007 and Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
on the information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group Responsibilities.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the information and explanations which we considered necessary Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 July 2007 and of Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other IAS Regulation: and transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules  LLP of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements London on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 24 September 2007 on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc 111 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
