Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2007 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2007. policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors Remuneration report and the parent company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted assurance that the parent company financial statements and the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are free Responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report company financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Remuneration report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for Opinion and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance In our opinion: with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the parent company financial statements give a true and fair responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
31 July 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Directors Remuneration report to be audited have been properly financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors the information given in the Directors report is consistent with Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared the parent company financial statements.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
We  LLP also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information London and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified 24 September 2007 by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report, the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the Performance review and the corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
120 Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
