Our 2007 financial statements Independent auditors report I In nd fide ep pe en nd fide en nt Au t Aud diit to or rs s r re ep po or rt t to t to th he e m me em mb be er rs s Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of WP of WPP G P Gr ro ou up p p pllc c and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United We have audited the Group and parent company financial Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and statements of WPP Group plc for the year ended 31 December International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
2007 which comprise the accounting policies, the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial company balance sheets, the consolidated cash ow statements and the part of the directors remuneration report statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance and expenses and the related notes 1 to 38.
These financial with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Group financial statements have been properly prepared in set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also directors remuneration report that is described as having report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given been audited.
in the directors report is consistent with the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as statements.
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have state to the Companys members those matters we are required not received all the information and explanations we require to state to them in an auditors report and for no other for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not directors remuneration and other transactions is not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We review whether the corporate governance statement audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Res Resp pe ec ctiv tive e r re esponsibilities sponsibilities o of f dir dire ec ct tor ors s a an nd d audit audito or rs s Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the group financial statements in accordance with and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and for preparing control procedures.
the parent individual company financial statements and the We read the other information contained in the Annual directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable Report as described in the contents section and consider law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice We consider the implications for our report if we become are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
187 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Our 2007 financial statements Our 2007 financial statements Independent auditors report B Ba as siis s o of f audit audit opinion opinion Opi Opin niio on n We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the and of its pro t for the year then ended: directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes the Group financial statements have been properly an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: statements, and of whether the accounting policies are the parent company financial statements give a true and appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the individual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: all the information and explanations which we considered the parent company financial statements and the part of necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence the directors remuneration report to be audited have been to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and the part of the directors remuneration report to be 1985: and audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused the information given in the Directors Report is consistent by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion with the financial statements.
we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Sepa Separ ra at te e opinion opinion in in r re elation lation t to o IF IFRS RS the directors remuneration report to be audited.
As explained in the accounting policies to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its pro t for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, 24 April 2008 188 Our 2007 financial statements WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007
