INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS We read other information contained in the Annual Report OF WS ATKINS PLC and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial statements the financial statements of WS Atkins plc for the highlights, the Chairmans statement, the Chief executive Our year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated strategy, the Human resources review, the Operating and financial Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company review, Corporate responsibility, the Board of directors, the Directors Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow report, the Corporate governance report and the unaudited part of Statements, the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements the Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material financial statements have been prepared under the accounting inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in do not extend to any other information.
the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS We conducted our audit in accordance with International AND AUDITORS Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys information and explanations which we considered necessary members as a body in accordance with section 235 of the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in assurance that the financial statements and the part of the giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other Remuneration report to be audited are free from material purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall prior consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited OPINION have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of given in the Directors report includes that specific information its loss and cash flows for the year then ended presented in the Operating and financial review and Chairmans The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair statement that is cross-referred from the Business review section view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union of the Directors report.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies In addition, we also report to you if, in our opinion, the company Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received 31 March 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or The financial statements and the part of the Remuneration if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance and other transactions is not disclosed.
with the Companies Act 1985, as regards the Group financial We review whether the Corporate governance statement statements, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the The information given in the Directors report is consistent Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules with the financial statements.
of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements  LLP on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance London procedures or its risk and control procedures.
26 June 2007 WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FIFTY
