XCHANGING PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc Group We have audited the Group financial statements of Xchanging We read other information contained in the Annual Report plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance financial statements.
The other information comprises only sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated the Directors Report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief statement of recognised income and expense and the related Executive Officers review, the operating and financial review notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared and the Corporate Governance statement.
We consider the under the accounting policies set out therein.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the We have reported separately on the parent company financial Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend statements of Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December to any other information.
2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors Directors Responsibilities within the Directors Report.
in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only information and explanations which we considered necessary for the Companys members as a body in accordance with in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Opinion financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the In our opinion: Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 the information given in the Directors Report is consistent and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: with the Group financial statements.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and received all the information and explanations we require for the information given in the Directors Report is consistent our audit, or if information specified by law regarding with the Group financial statements.
Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions London of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the 25 February 2008 Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
104 Independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc Group
