ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc Company We have audited the parent company financial statements of Corporate Governance statement, the unaudited part of the Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
comprise the balance sheet, the cash flow statement and the We consider the implications for our report if we become related notes.
These parent company financial statements have aware of any apparent misstatements or material been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International of Xchanging plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual parent company financial statements and the part of the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes company financial statements in accordance with applicable an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set company financial statements, and of whether the accounting out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities within policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, the Directors Report.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report information and explanations which we considered necessary to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other for and only for the Companys members as a body in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, financial statements.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose Opinion hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior In our opinion: consent in writing.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs company financial statements give a true and fair view and as at 31 December 2007 and of the Companys cash flows whether the parent company financial statements and the part for the year then ended: of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the financial statements have been properly prepared in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with with the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements.
 LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not London received all the information and explanations we require 25 February 2008 for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained within the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive Officers review, the operating and financial review, the Independent auditors report to the members of Xchanging plc Company 111
