pp p q p g Financial statements Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Yell Group plc reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions We have audited the Group and parent company financial of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the statements the financial statements of Yell Group plc for the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group Income if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements control procedures.
have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Respective responsibilities of directors and Auditors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Business Review.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements We consider the implications for our report if we become aware in accordance with applicable law and International Financial of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Basis of audit opinion part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in We conducted our audit in accordance with International accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other you whether in our opinion the information given in the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the The information given in the Directors Report includes that financial statements and the part of the Directors specific information presented in the Business Review that is Remuneration Report to be audited.
cross referred from the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
76 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Financial statements pp p q p g Financial statements continued Opinion In our opinion: The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 5 June 2007 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 77
