Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of BAE Systems plc for the year ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also financial statements have been prepared under the accounting includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the been audited.
Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Companys members those matters we are required to state to order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest assurance that the financial statements and the part of the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the we have formed.
presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Opinion and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable In our opinion: law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally the year then ended: Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Directors Responsibilities on page 86. accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the parent company financial statements give a true and fair of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
31 December 2007: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the parent company financial statements and the part of the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the KPMG Audit Plc financial statements.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 20 February 2008 information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
