Our accounts Our accounts 23 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Balfour Beatty plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing which comprise the Group and Company income statements, the Group and UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Company balance sheets, the Group and Company cash flow statements, the examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Group and Company statements of recognised income and expense and the and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors related notes 1 to 37.
These financial statements have been prepared under the remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has and adequately disclosed.
been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors been audited.
remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Opinion adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors In our opinion: responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups and the Companys with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of the Groups profit and the Companys International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the report described as having been audited have been properly prepared Directors remuneration report having been audited, have been properly in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and as regards the Group prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors financial statements.
report includes that specific information presented in the operating review and financial review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Separate opinion in relation to IFRS Directors report.
As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group and the Company In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept in addition to complying with their legal obligation to comply with IFRSs proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and adopted by the European Union, have also complied with IFRSs issued by explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the financial regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the the Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 and the Groups Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code profit and the Companys profit for the year then ended.
specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Deloitte & Touche LLP Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or London its risk and control procedures.
4 March 2008 We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section of the Directors report and accounts and the contents section of the Annual review and summary financial statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
