Independent Auditors Report to the shareholders of ISS holding A S judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material We have audited the Annual Report of ISS Holding A S misstatement of the Annual Report, whether due to fraud or for the financial year 1 January - 31 december 2007, pages error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditors consider 1-169, which comprises the Company Report, Management internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair Statement, Financial Review, Income Statement, Cash Flow presentation of the Annual Report in order to design audit Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of total Recognised procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not Income and expense and Changes in equity and notes to for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness the Financial Statements for the Group as well as for the of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes parent company.
the Annual Report has been prepared evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used in accordance with the International Financial Reporting and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by Standards IFRS as adopted by the eu and additional management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation danish disclosure requirements.
Managements responsibility for the Annual Report We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Management is responsible for the preparation and fair sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit presentation of the Annual Report in accordance with the opinion.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the eu and additional danish disclosure requireour audit did not result in any qualification.
this responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control Opinion relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of an In our opinion, the Annual Report gives a true and fair annual report that is free from material misstatement, view of the Groups and the Companys assets, liabilities whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying and financial position at 31 december 2007 and of the results appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting of the Groups and the Companys operations and cash flows estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
for the financial year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Auditors responsibility by the eu and additional danish disclosure requirements.
our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Annual Report based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with danish and International Standards on KPMg c. Jespersen Auditing.
those standards require that we comply with Statsautoriseret  ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the Annual Report Copenhagen, 16 April 2008 is free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit Jesper Ridder Olsen claus Kronbak evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual State Authorised State Authorised report.
the procedures selected depend on the auditors public Accountant public Accountant 68 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | Independent AudItoR'S RepoRt VIncenneS, fRAnce yAnn Le BRetOn, PROPeRty SeRVIce
