FINANCIALS 74 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the group financial statements We have audited the group financial statements of Grainger plc In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not for the year ended 30 September 2007 which comprise the received all the information and explanations we require for consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the statement of consolidated cash flows and the related notes.
We review whether the corporate governance report reflects These group financial statements have been prepared under the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the the accounting policies set out therein.
Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing We have reported separately on the parent company financial Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does statements of Grainger plc for the year ended 30 September not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards 2007 and on the information in the report of the remuneration statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or committee and directors remuneration report that is described form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate as having been audited.
governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report statements.
The other information comprises only the chairmans and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable statement, the chief executives review, the financial review, the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as corporate governance report, the directors report, the corporate adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement responsibility report and the unaudited part of the report of the of directors responsibilities.
remuneration committee and directors remuneration report and Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements the other items listed on the contents page.
We consider the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other the companys members as a body in accordance with Section information.
235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for Basis of audit opinion any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report We conducted our audit in accordance with International is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of statements give a true and fair view and whether the group the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
information given in the directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in The information given in the directors report includes that order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable specific information presented in the chairmans statement and assurance that the group financial statements are free from the chief executives review that is cross-referenced from the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other review of business development and prospects section of irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the directors report.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
FINANCIALS 75 Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 18 December 2007 Note The maintenance and integrity of the Grainger plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
