Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the We report to you our opinion as to whether Opinion members of Mapeley Limited on the the Group financial statements give a true In our opinion the Group financial annual Group financial statements for and fair view and whether the Group statements: the year ended 31 December 2007 financial statements have been properly give a true and fair view, in accordance prepared in accordance with The Companies with IFRSs as adopted by the European Introduction Guernsey Law 1994.
We also report Union, of the state of the Groups affairs We have audited the Group financial to you if, in our opinion, the Directors as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss statements of Mapeley Limited for the year Report is not consistent with the financial for the year then ended: and ended 31 December 2007 which comprise statements, if the Company has not kept have been properly prepared in accordance the Consolidated Income Statement, proper accounting records, or if we have with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994. the Consolidated Statement of Changes in not received all the information and Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, explanations we require for our audit.
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Ernst&Young LLP and the related notes 1 to 31.
These Group We read other information contained in the Registered auditor financial statements have been prepared Annual Report and consider whether it is London under the accounting policies set out therein.
consistent with the audited Group financial 14 March 2008 statements.
The other information comprises This report is made solely to the Company's only, the Chairmans and Chief Executive members, as a body, in accordance with Ofcers Statement, the Business Review, Section 64 of The Companies Guernsey the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Law 1994.
Our audit work has been Financial Review, the Directors Report, the undertaken so that we might state to the statement concerning Corporate Governance Company's members those matters we are and the Remuneration Report.
We consider required to state to them in an auditors' the implications for our report if we become report and for no other purpose.
To the aware of any apparent misstatements or fullest extent permitted by law, we do not material inconsistencies with the financial accept or assume responsibility to anyone statements.
Our responsibilities do not other than the Company and the Company's extend to any other information.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Basis of audit opinion have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Respective responsibilities of Directors UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing and auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes The Directors are responsible for preparing examination, on a test basis, of evidence the Annual Report and the Group financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures in statements in accordance with applicable the financial statements.
It also includes Guernsey Law and International Financial an assessment of the significant estimates Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted and judgments made by the Directors by the European Union as set out in the in the preparation of the Group financial Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Our responsibility is to audit the Group circumstances, consistently applied and financial statements in accordance with adequately disclosed.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing We planned and performed our audit UK and Ireland.
so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
