85 Savills plc Our Governance Report and accounts 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Savills plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Savills plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements the financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Savills plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK the Group income statement, the Group and parent Company balance sheets, and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the Group and parent Company statements of cash flows, the Group and parent on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Company statements of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Report that is described as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Opinion other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for In our opinion: any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards to the Group financial statements, provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Companys Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the affairs as at 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended: information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to presented in the Review of Operations and the Financial Review that is cross be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies referred from the Directors Report.
Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors financial statements.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our 1 Embankment Place review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it London WC2N 6RH does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness 11 March 2008 of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it a The maintenance and integrity of the Savills plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements the Chairmans Statement, the Review of Operations and the Financial Review and since they were initially presented on the website.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
86 Savillsplc Ourresults Reportand accounts 2006 Contents Our results Our business Chairmans Statement 12 Review of Operations 16 FinancialReview 50 Risksand Uncertainties FacingtheBusiness 54 Our Responsibilities 58 Our governance Board of Directors 66 DirectorsReport 68 Corporate Governance Report 70 RemunerationReport 75  84 Independent AuditorsReport 85 Our results  88 BalanceSheets 89  90  91  92  139 Savillsplc Ourresults Contents Savills beat competition to secure appointmentas lettingagent for prestigious London building UK 40 Portman Square, London In 2006, our Investment department secured funding In place offormalmarketing, our team set outto for the buildingof40 Portman Square, an exciting identify potential tenants.
Although our expertise and office and apartment propertyin the heartofLondons experience indicated that the building would havethe West End.
Now that success was followedupby the greatest appeal to businesses in the financial services Savills West End office agencydepartment winninga sector, wealso targeted companies fromrapidly competitive pitch against five majorLondonpractices.
Asa resultof this The teamwas appointedjoint letting agentatthe approach, 85% of the building has beenpre-let some beginningof 2007 to advise the freeholder Portman eightto nine monthsahead of completion at rents Estate, the fund Standard Life and the developer up to 115 per sqft.
organisation that will be locating its new European headquarterson the 1st floor.
On completion, 40 Portman Square will provide approximately 100,000 sqftofhighquality office accommodation plus20 luxury apartments on oneofLondons most prominentsquares.
