Independent Auditors Report to the Members of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited We have audited the Groups financial statements for the period Basis of Audit Opinion ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Statement, and the related notes 1 to 18.
These financial of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the set out therein.
significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups body, in accordance with Section 64 of the Companies circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no information and explanations which we considered necessary in other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accept or assume responsibility to any one other than the assurance that the financial statements are free from material Company and Companys members as a body, for our audit misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Respective Responsibilities of Directors and statements.
Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and Opinion accounts for the period ended 31 December 2007, including the In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in financial statements which are required to be prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of accordance with applicable Guernsey law as set out in the the state of affairs of the Group as at 31 December 2007 and of Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
its loss for the period then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 1994.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Guernsey Law 1994.
We also report to you if, in our Ernst & Young LLP opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the Guernsey financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper Channel Islands accounting records or if we have not received all the information 2 April 2008 and explanations we require for our audit.
We read other information contained in the Report and Accounts for the period ended 31 December 2007 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Company Summary, Financial Highlights, Performance Summary, Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers, Managers Review, Portfolio Statistics, Property Portfolio, Board of Directors, Report of the Directors, Notice of Annual General Meeting, Shareholder Information and Corporate Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 22
