We have audited the group and parent company information given in the Directors Report includes Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are financial statements the financial statements that specific information presented in the Business free from material misstatement, whether caused by of The UNITE Group plc for the year ended Review that is cross referred from the Business fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our 31 December 2007 which comprise the Review section of the Directors Report.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated the presentation of information in the financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and statements and the part of the Directors the company has not kept proper accounting Company Statements of Changes in Shareholder Remuneration Report to be audited.
records, if we have not received all the information Equity, the Group and Company Statements of Cash and explanations we require for our audit, or if Opinion Flows and the related notes.
These financial information specified by law regarding directors statements have been prepared under the In our opinion: remuneration and other transactions is accounting policies set out therein.
We have also not disclosed.
the group financial statements give a true and fair audited the information in the Directors We review whether the Corporate Governance view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Remuneration Report that is described as Statement reflects the companys compliance with EU, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 having been audited.
the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code December 2007 and of its loss for the year then This report is made solely to the companys specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the ended: members, as a body, in accordance with section Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does the parent company financial statements give a 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We are not required to consider whether the true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as been undertaken so that we might state to the boards statements on internal control cover all risks adopted by the EU, of the state of the parent companys members those matters we are required and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: to state to them in an auditors report and for no of the groups corporate governance procedures or other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the financial statements and the part of the its risk and control procedures.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Directors Remuneration Report We read the other information contained in the other than the company and the companys to be audited have been properly prepared in Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent members as a body, for our audit work, for this accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, with the audited financial statements.
We consider report, or for the opinions we have formed.
as regards the group financial statements, the implications for our report if we become aware Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Respective responsibilities of any apparent misstatements or material the information given in the Directors Report is of directors and auditors inconsistencies with the financial statements.
consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any The directors responsibilities for preparing the other information.
Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Basis of audit opinion accordance with applicable law and International We conducted our audit in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland the EU, are set out in the Statement of Directors KPMG Audit Plc PO Box 695 issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Responsibilities on page 41.
Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Registered Auditor London Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the EC4Y 8BB and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report financial statements and the part of the Directors 5 March 2008 to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes regulatory requirements and International Standards an assessment of the significant estimates and on Auditing UK and Ireland.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation We report to you our opinion as to whether the of the financial statements, and of whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and accounting policies are appropriate to the groups whether the financial statements and the part of the and companys circumstances, consistently applied Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have and adequately disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group all the information and explanations which we financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
considered necessary in order to provide us with We also report to you whether in our opinion the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that information given in the Directors Report is the financial statements and the part of the consistent with the financial statements.
The 48 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of the UNITE Group plc
