DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the net return for that period.
The Directors are also required to prepare a Directors Remuneration Report.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding  and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge, the financial statements:.
have been prepared on a going concern basis and appropriate accounting policies have been used and consistently applied:.
have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards:.
have been prepared based on judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of the Company.
The Business Review, together with the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report, provide a fair review of the Companys performance and position, including the principal risks.
On behalf of the Board David R Shaw Chairman 23 January 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ABERFORTH SMALLER COMPANIES TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2007, which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 18.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
34 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we required for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Investment Objective, Financial Highlights, Ten Year Investment Record, Company Summary, Chairmans Statement, Directors and Corporate Information, Aberforth Partners LLP Information, Managers Report, Portfolio Information, Thirty Largest Investments, List of Investments, Long Term Record, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Report, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Shareholder Information and Notice of Annual General Meeting.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we  financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its net return for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Edinburgh 23 January 2008 Notes: 1.
: the work carried out by the Auditors of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
