48 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent We report to you our opinion as to whether Company financial statements the financial the financial statements give a true and fair statements of Admiral Group plc for the year view and whether the financial statements ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Group Income Statement, the Parent Company Report to be audited have been properly Profit and Loss Account, the Group and prepared in accordance with the Companies Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of Recognised Income and Expenses and the We also report to you whether in our opinion related notes.
These financial statements have the information given in the Directors Report been prepared under the accounting policies is consistent with the financial statements.
We have also audited the The information given in the Directors Report information in the Directors Remuneration includes that specific information presented Report that is described as having been in the Chairmans statements, the Chief audited.
Executives statement and the financial review that is cross referred from the business review This report is made solely to the Companys section of the Directors Report.
members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, audit work has been undertaken so that we the Company has not kept proper accounting might state to the Companys members those records, if we have not received all the matters we are required to state to them in information and explanations we require for an auditors report and for no other purpose.
our audit, or if information specified by law To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do regarding Directors remuneration and other not accept or assume responsibility to anyone transactions is not disclosed.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this We review whether the Corporate report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review Respective responsibilities of by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Directors and auditors Authority, and we report if it does not.
We The Directors responsibilities for preparing are not required to consider whether the the Annual Report and the Group financial Boards statements on internal control cover statements in accordance with applicable all risks and controls, or form an opinion on law and International Financial Reporting the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and governance procedures or its risk and control for preparing the Parent Company financial procedures.
statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in the Directors' Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 49 We read the other information contained Opinion in the Annual Report and consider whether In our opinion: it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications the Group financial statements give a true and for our report if we become aware of fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted any apparent misstatements or material by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the year then ended: Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Basis of audit opinion Regulation: We conducted our audit in accordance with the Parent Company financial statements give International Standards on Auditing UK and a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at of evidence relevant to the amounts and 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the disclosures in the financial statements and the year then ended: part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Parent Company financial statements and to be audited.
It also includes an assessment the part of the Directors Remuneration of the significant estimates and judgments Report to be audited have been properly made by the Directors in the preparation prepared in accordance with the Companies of the financial statements, and of whether Act 1985: and the accounting policies are appropriate to the information given in the Directors Report the Groups and Companys circumstances, is consistent with the financial statements.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order KPMG Audit Plc to provide us with sufficient evidence to Chartered Accountants give reasonable assurance that the financial Registered Auditor statements and the part of the Directors Cardiff Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether 3 March 2008 caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
