Independent Auditors report to the members of BG Group plc 72 We have audited the Group and parent company Financial BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Statements the Financial Statements of BG Group plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
income statement, the balance sheets, the cash flow statements, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and and the related notes.
These Financial Statements have been the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial Statements, is described as having been audited.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance information and explanations which we considered necessary with applicable law and International Financial Reporting in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the OPINION Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving In our opinion: this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 consent in writing.
and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial the parent company Financial Statements give a true and fair Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether as at 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended: in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration consistent with the Financial Statements.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Financial not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or the information given in the Directors Report is consistent if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration with the Financial Statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements  LLP on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance London procedures or its risk and control procedures.
12 March 2008 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the other items listed in the contents section of the Annual Report, excluding the 2007 audited Financial Statements and the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
