Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 51 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Alliance Trust PLC has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for We have audited the group and parent company financial our audit, or if information specified by law regarding statements the financial statements of Alliance Trust PLC directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
for the year ended 31 January 2007 which comprise the Consolidated and Company Income Statements, the Group We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Cash reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the of Recognised Income and Expense, and the related notes.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report These financial statements have been prepared under the if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the described as having been audited group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We read the other information contained in the Report and 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the state to the Companys members those matters we are audited financial statements.
We consider the implications required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no for our report if we become aware of any apparent other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit information.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Report Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the and Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Responsibilities on page 39. an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the statements, and of whether the accounting policies are part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in appropriate to the groups and Companys circumstances, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary statements give a true and fair view and whether the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give financial statements and the part of the Directors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information given in the Directors Report as defined on information in the financial statements and the part of the page 41 is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
52 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups and the parent Companys affairs as at 31 January 2007 and of the groups and the parent Companys profit for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report as defined on page 41 is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc, Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor, Edinburgh 23 April 2007
