Independent Auditors Reports of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited on the summary financial report Basis of audit opinions Scope For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote The independent auditors reports in respect of the Groups full annual KPMG Audit Plc in relation to UK professional and regulatory financial statements describe the basis of our audit opinions on those responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of financial statements and the information in the Remuneration Report BHP Billiton Plc and KPMG in relation to Australian professional that is described as having been audited.
and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the KPMG Audit Plc conducted its work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 members of BHP Billiton Limited.
The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
The BHP Billiton Group the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they controlled at the KPMG performed procedures in respect of the audit of the summary end of the year or from time to time during the financial year.
financial report to form an opinion whether, in all material respects, The summary financial report set out on pages 68 to 80 comprises the the summary financial report is presented fairly in accordance with consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of recognised Australian Accounting Standard AASB 1039 Concise Financial Reports.
income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash We formed our audit opinions on the basis of these procedures, flow statement, accompanying notes 1 to 6, the Directors Declaration which included: and the relevant information in the Remuneration Report, which for testing that the information in the summary financial report is Australian reporting purposes is limited to the information that is derived from, and is consistent with, the full financial report: and described as having been audited.
The summary financial report examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts has been derived from the audited financial report of the Group and other disclosures which were not directly derived from the for the year ended 30 June 2007. full financial report.
The summary financial report does not contain all the disclosures We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient required by Australian Accounting Standards, the Corporations and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Act 2001 and applicable United Kingdom law that are required for inclusion in a set of full financial statements.
Reading the summary While we considered the effectiveness of managements internal financial report is not a substitute for reading the audited financial controls over financial reporting when determining the nature and report of the Group.
extent of our procedures, our audit was not designed to provide assurance on internal controls.
KPMG Audit Plcs report is made solely to the members of BHP Billiton Plc, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the UK Companies We have also conducted audits of the full financial report of the Group Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plcs work has been undertaken so that it might for the year ended 30 June 2007.
Our audit reports on the full financial state to the members of BHP Billiton Plc those matters it is required to report were signed on 6 September 2007, and were not subject to state to them in such a report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest any modification.
extent permitted by law, KPMG Audit Plc does not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than BHP Billiton Plc and the members Auditors opinion of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc as a body, for KPMG Audit Plcs work, for this report, of BHP Billiton Plc or for the opinions it has formed.
To the fullest extent permitted by In our opinion the summary financial report is consistent with the law, KPMG does not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other full annual financial statements and the Remuneration Report of than BHP Billiton Limited and the members of BHP Billiton Limited BHP Billiton Plc for the year ended 30 June 2007 and complies with as a body, for KPMGs work, for this report, or for the opinions it the applicable requirements of section 251 of the UK Companies Act has formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the summary financial report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standard AASB 1039 Concise Financial Reports, the Corporations Act 2001 and applicable United Kingdom law.
This responsibility includes KPMG Audit Plc establishing and maintaining internal control relevant to the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor preparation of the summary financial report: selecting and applying London appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that 6 September 2007 are reasonable in the circumstances.
KPMG Audit Plcs responsibility is to report to the members of Auditors opinion of KPMG to the members BHP Billiton Plc its opinion on the consistency of the summary financial of BHP Billiton Limited report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report In our opinion, the summary financial report of the BHP Billiton Group and the Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant for the financial year ended 30 June 2007 complies with Australian requirements of section 251 of the UK Companies Act 1985 and the Accounting Standard 1039 Concise Financial Reports.
KPMGs responsibility is to express an opinion to the members of BHP Billiton Limited on the summary financial report based on its audit procedures.
KPMG conducted an independent audit in accordance with Australian Auditing Standards of the financial KPMG report of the Group for the year ended 30 June 2007.
Australian Auditing Standards require that we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit engagements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the summary financial report for the year is free of material misstatement and the Peter Nash information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having Partner been audited complies with Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures and the Corporations Regulations 2001.
Melbourne 6 September 2007 We also read the other information contained in the annual review and consider the implications for our reports if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial report.
