5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:55 PM Page 274 Independent auditors reports of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc and of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited Scope The Directors responsibilities pursuant to their reporting obligations to the members of BHP Billiton Plc are set out in the Statement For the purpose of these reports, the terms we and our denote of Directors Responsibilities on page 272.
KPMG Audit Plc in relation to UK professional and regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members of BHP Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part Billiton Plc and KPMG in relation to Australian professional and of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant regulatory responsibilities and reporting obligations to the members legal and regulatory requirements, International Standards on Auditing of BHP Billiton Limited.
UK and Ireland and Australian Auditing Standards and to express an opinion thereon based on those audits.
These Standards require that The BHP Billiton Group the Group consists of BHP Billiton Plc and we comply with relevant ethical requirements relating to audit BHP Billiton Limited and the entities they controlled at the end of the engagements.
year or from time to time during the financial year.
KPMG Audit Plc and KPMG report to the members of BHP Billiton Plc We have audited the Group financial statements for the year ended and BHP Billiton Limited respectively our opinions as to whether the 30 June 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be consolidated balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement, the audited have been properly prepared in accordance with relevant UK summary of accounting policies and other explanatory notes 1 to 39 and Australian requirements respectively.
The UK requirements are and the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as those of the UK Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS having been audited.
KPMG Audit Plc has also audited the parent Regulation.
The Australian requirements are those of Australian company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc for the year ended Accounting Standards, Australian statutory requirements and other 30 June 2007 which comprise the parent company balance sheet mandatory professional reporting requirements in Australia.
KPMG has also audited the Directors declaration set out on page 271.
The Group financial statements and KPMG Audit Plc also reports to the members of BHP Billiton Plc the parent company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc whether, in its opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is collectively referred to as the financial statements have been consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the various sections referred to in the Principal activities, state of affairs KPMG Audit Plcs report is made solely to the members of BHP Billiton and business review section of the Directors Report.
KPMG Audit Plc Plc, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the UK Companies also reports if, in its opinion, BHP Billiton Plc has not kept proper Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plcs audit work has been undertaken so that accounting records: if it has not received all the information and it might state to the members of BHP Billiton Plc those matters it is explanations it requires for its audit: if information specified by required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not purpose.
KPMG has conducted an independent audit of the Group disclosed: and if the Corporate Governance Statement does not reflect financial statements solely in order to express an opinion to the BHP Billiton Plcs compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 members of BHP Billiton Limited and for no other purpose.
To the FRC Combined Code specified for review by the Listing Rules of the fullest extent permitted by law, KPMG Audit Plc does not accept or Financial Services Authority.
KPMG Audit Plc is not required to consider assume responsibility to anyone other than BHP Billiton Plc and the whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and members of BHP Billiton Plc as a body, for KPMG Audit Plcs audit controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups work, for this report, or for the opinions it has formed.
To the fullest corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
extent permitted by law, KPMG does not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than BHP Billiton Limited and the We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and members of BHP Billiton Limited as a body, for KPMGs audit work, consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
for this report, or for the opinions it has formed.
We consider the implications for our reports if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and other information.
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Basis of audit opinions International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, for preparing the parent company financial statements of We conducted our audits in accordance with relevant legal and BHP Billiton Plc and the Remuneration Report in accordance with regulatory requirements, International Standards on Auditing UK and applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with Australian Accounting Principles and for preparing the Group financial Auditing Standards.
statements and the Remuneration Report in accordance with the An audit involves performing procedures, which include examination, Australian Corporations Act 2001, applicable Australian Accounting conducted on a test basis, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts Standards and other mandatory financial reporting requirements.
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Additionally, the Directors are responsible for establishing and Remuneration Report to be audited.
An audit also includes an maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by presentation of financial statements that are free from material the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying part of the Remuneration Report to be audited, and of whether the appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys that are reasonable in the circumstances.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and judgements made by the Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements and the remuneration disclosures in the Remuneration Report identified as being audited.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
274 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 5260 BHPB AReport Pt3 10 9 07 4:55 PM Page 275 Audit opinion of KPMG Audit Plc to the members of BHP Billiton Plc In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2007: the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor London 6 September 2007 Audit opinion of KPMG to the members of BHP Billiton Limited In our opinion: a the financial report of the Group is in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001, including: i giving a true and fair view of the Groups financial position as at 30 June 2007 and of its performance for the financial year ended on that date: and ii complying with Australian Accounting Standards including the Australian Accounting Interpretations and the Corporations Regulations 2001. b the financial report also complies with International Financial Reporting Standards as disclosed in note 1.
The remuneration disclosures that are contained in the sections of the Remuneration Report described as being audited comply with Australian Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures and the Corporations Regulations 2001.
KPMG Peter Nash Partner Melbourne 6 September 2007 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2007 275
