Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc We have audited the group and parent company We review whether the Corporate Governance Opinion financial statements the financial statements of Report reflects the companys compliance with the In our opinion: Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code which comprise the consolidated income specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the group financial statements give a true and fair statement, the consolidated and parent company Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by balance sheets, the consolidated and parent not.
We are not required to consider whether the the European Union, of the state of the groups company cash flow statements, the consolidated boards statements on internal control cover all risks affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and parent company statements of changes in and controls, or form an opinion on the for the year then ended: equity and the related notes 1 to 46.
These financial effectiveness of the groups corporate governance statements have been prepared under the procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the parent company financial statements give a accounting policies set out therein.
We have also true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as audited the information in the Directors We read the other information contained in the adopted by the European Union as applied in remuneration report that is described as having Annual Report as described in the contents section accordance with the provisions of the been audited.
and consider whether it is consistent with the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent audited financial statements.
The other information companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: This report is made solely to the companys comprises only the Directors Report, the members, as a body, in accordance with section Chairmans Statement, the Review and the financial statements and the part of the 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has Performance sections, the Corporate governance Directors remuneration report to be audited been undertaken so that we might state to the section, the Accounting to shareholders section, have been properly prepared in accordance with companys members those matters we are required the Corporate responsibility section and the the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the to state to them in an auditors report and for no unaudited part of the Directors remuneration group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by report.
We consider the implications for our report Regulation: and law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to if we become aware of any apparent misstatements anyone other than the company and the companys or material inconsistencies with the financial the information given in the Directors Report is members as a body, for our audit work, for this statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to consistent with the financial statements.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
any further information outside the Annual Report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and Basis of audit opinion auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with The directors responsibilities for preparing the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Deloitte & Touche LLP and the financial statements in accordance with includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors applicable law and International Financial Reporting relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the London Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European financial statements and the part of the Directors 27 February 2008 Union are set out in the Statement of Directors remuneration report to be audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of the financial statements, and of whether the and the part of the Directors remuneration report to accounting policies are appropriate to the groups be audited in accordance with relevant legal and and companys circumstances, consistently applied regulatory requirements and International and adequately disclosed.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain We report to you our opinion as to whether the all the information and explanations which we financial statements give a true and fair view and considered necessary in order to provide us with whether the financial statements and the part of the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance Directors remuneration report to be audited have that the financial statements and the part of the been properly prepared in accordance with the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group from material misstatement, whether caused by financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our We also report to you whether in our opinion the opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of information given in the Directors Report is the presentation of information in the financial consistent with the financial statements.
The statements and the part of the Directors information given in the Directors Report includes remuneration report to be audited.
that specific information presented in the Review and Performance sections that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report and that specific information presented in the Accountability section that is cross referred from the corporate responsibility and charitable donations sections of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
