Independent auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc We have audited the Group and parent Company directors report is consistent with the financial financial statements the financial statements of statements.
The information given in the directors' Ashmore Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2007 report includes that specific information presented which comprise the Group income statement, in the financial highlights, Chief Executive Officers the Group and parent Company balance sheets, review, business review and corporate governance the Group and parent Company cash flow statements, report that is cross referred from the principal the Group and parent Company statements of activity and business review section of the changes in equity and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the under the accounting policies set out therein.
Company has not kept proper accounting records, We have also audited the information in the if we have not received all the information and remuneration report that is described as having explanations we require for our audit, or if information been audited.
specified by law regarding directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys and other transactions is not disclosed.
members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 We review whether the corporate governance of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been statement reflects the Companys compliance with undertaken so that we might state to the Companys the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code members those matters we are required to state to specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not not.
We are not required to consider whether the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than board's statements on internal control cover all risks the Company and the Company's members as a and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the of the Groups corporate governance procedures or opinions we have formed.
its risk and control procedures.
Respective responsibilities of directors We read the other information contained in the and auditors Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent The directors responsibilities for preparing the with the audited financial statements.
We consider Annual Report, the remuneration report and the the implications for our report if we become financial statements in accordance with applicable aware of any apparent misstatements or material law and International Financial Reporting Standards inconsistencies with the financial statements.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other statement of directors responsibilities on information.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with and the part of the remuneration report to be audited International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit requirements and International Standards on Auditing includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence UK and Ireland.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and the part of the remuneration financial statements give a true and fair view and report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment whether the financial statements and the part of the of the significant estimates and judgements made remuneration report to be audited have been properly by the directors in the preparation of the financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act statements, and of whether the accounting policies 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, are appropriate to the Groups and Company's Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you circumstances, consistently applied and adequately whether in our opinion the information given in the disclosed.
36 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain the financial statements and the part of the all the information and explanations which we remuneration report to be audited have been considered necessary in order to provide us with properly prepared in accordance with the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group the financial statements and the part of the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: remuneration report to be audited are free from and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the information given in the directors report is other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we consistent with the financial statements.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: KPMG Audit Plc the parent Company financial statements give a Chartered Accountants true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as One Canada Square adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with London E14 5AG the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the Registered Auditor state of the parent Company's affairs as at 30 June 2007: 12 September 2007 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 37
