Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the directors of Aviva plc on the alternative method of reporting long-term business profits We have audited the alternative method of reporting long-term business on pages 247 to 267 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007, which comprises a European Embedded Value basis Summarised Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Reconciliation of Movements in Consolidated Shareholders Funds, Summarised Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related notes on pages 247 to 267.
The alternative method of reporting long-term business has been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Values Principles published by the CFO Forum in May 2004 and the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures published by the CFO Forum in October 2005 together the EEV Principles as described on, and using the methodology and assumptions set out on, pages 251 to 253.
This report is made solely to the Companys directors, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys directors those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the Companys directors as a body, for our audit, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the alternative method of reporting long-term business on the above European Embedded Value basis.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to the alternative method of reporting long-term business are established in the UK by the Auditing Practices Board and our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the alternative method of reporting long-term business has been properly prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value basis.
We also report to you if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit of the alternative method of reporting long-term business.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the alternative method of reporting long-term business.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the alternative method of reporting long-term business, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the alternative method of reporting longterm business stated on the European Embedded Value basis is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the alternative method of reporting long-term business.
Opinion 246 In our opinion the alternative method of reporting long-term business for the year ended 31 December 2007 has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles, using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 251 Financial to 253. statements Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 27 February 2008
