Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Aviva plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial financial statements.
The other information comprises only statements the financial statements of Aviva plc for the the Overview, the Business review, the Board of Directors, year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the the Directors report, the Corporate Governance report, Accounting Policies, the Consolidated and Parent Company the Audit Committee report, the Nomination Committee Income Statements, the pro forma reconciliation of Group report, the Risk and Regulatory committee report, the operating profit to profit before tax, the Consolidated and Corporate Social Responsibility committee and the Parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report.
Parent Company statement of recognised income and We consider the implications for our report if we become expense, the Consolidated and Parent Company aware of any apparent misstatements or material reconciliation of movements in shareholders equity, the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and the related notes 1 to 59 and A to I.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the Directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the This report is made solely to the Companys members, Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also members those matters we are required to state to them includes an assessment of the significant estimates and in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, and the Companys members as a body, for our audit consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
111 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors information and explanations which we considered necessary Governance in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of as adopted by the European Union are set out in the information in the financial statements and the part of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
The financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements give a true and fair view and whether the Union, of the state of the Groups and the parent financial statements and the part of the Directors company's affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly Groups profit and the parent companys loss for the year prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 then ended: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of The financial statements and the part of the Directors the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our remuneration report to be audited have been properly opinion the information given in the Directors Report is prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 consistent with the financial statements.
The information and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 given in the Directors' Report includes that specific of the IAS Regulation: and information presented in the Business review that is cross The information given in the Directors report is referred from the Directors' report.
consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs received all the information and explanations we require for As explained in the Accounting Policies to the Group our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit required to consider whether the Boards statements on for the year then ended.
internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an Ernst & Young LLP opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Registered Auditor governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London 27 February 2008 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial statements International Financial Reporting Standards US Aviva advertising In 2007 the US launched the bright future brand campaign.
The advertisements feature a box of golden light to convey that Aviva is an innovative life insurance and annuity company that will help to ensure our customer will have a bright future.
The ads featured in mainstream Region: North America TV, trade and consumer press.
