The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 53 Report of the Independent Auditors to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC We have audited the consolidated and parent company In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company accounts the accounts of The Bankers Investment Trust has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not PLC for the year ended 31 October 2007 which comprise the received all the information and explanations we require for Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of These accounts have been prepared under the accounting the revised Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether having been audited.
the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, control procedures.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Union are set out in the Statement of Directors accounts.
The other information comprises only the Highlights Responsibilities.
and Total Return Performance, Chairmans Statement, the Portfolio Review, the Report of the Directors, the unaudited Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Corporate Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Governance Statement, Statistical Record and Largest with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Investments.
We consider the implications for our report if we International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This become aware of any apparent misstatements or material report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not for the Companys members as a body in accordance with extend to any other information.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Basis of audit opinion responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to We conducted our audit in accordance with International whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act estimates and judgments made by the directors in the 1985 and, as regards the consolidated accounts, Article 4 of preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
54 54 The Bankers Investment T The Bankers Investment Tr rust PLC ust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Independent Auditors to the members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the parent Company accounts give a true and fair view, in information and explanations which we considered necessary accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give as applied in accordance with the provisions of the reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Companys affairs as at 31 October 2007 and of its cash material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other flows for the year then ended: irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards to be audited.
the consolidated accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Opinion In our opinion: the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the accounts.
the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view, in  LLP accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London October 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: 14 January 2008 The accounts are published on websites maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of these websites are the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
