The accounts B19557 R&A 2007 BACK 25 2 08 16:22 Page 42 42 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Independent Auditors report to the members of Bradford & Bingley plc We have audited the Group and parent control cover all risks and controls, or form Company Financial Statements the Financial an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Statements of Bradford & Bingley plc for the corporate governance procedures or its risk year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise and control procedures.
the Group Income Statement, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and We read other information contained in the Company Statements of Recognised Income Annual Report & Accounts and consider whether and Expense, the Group and Company Cash it is consistent with the audited Financial Flow Statements and related notes.
We consider the implications for Financial Statements have been prepared our report if we become aware of any apparent under the accounting policies set out therein.
mis-statements or material inconsistencies with We have also audited the information in the the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do Directors Remuneration Report that is not extend to any other information.
described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys We conducted our audit in accordance with members, as a body, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that An audit includes examination, on a test basis, we might state to the Companys members of evidence relevant to the amounts and those matters we are required to state to them disclosures in the Financial Statements and the in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do be audited.
It also includes an assessment not accept or assume responsibility to anyone of the significant estimates and judgements other than the Company and the Companys made by the Directors in the preparation of members as a body, for our audit work, for this the Financial Statements, and of whether report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Respective responsibilities of Directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing We planned and performed our audit so as the Annual Report & Accounts, the Directors to obtain all the information and explanations Remuneration Report and the Financial which we considered necessary in order to Statements in accordance with applicable provide us with sufficient evidence to give law and International Financial Reporting reasonable assurance that the Financial Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Statements and the part of the Directors Union EU are set out in the Statement of Remuneration Report to be audited are free Directors Responsibilities on page 40. from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Our responsibility is to audit the Financial our opinion, we also evaluated the overall Statements and the part of the Directors adequacy of the presentation of information Remuneration Report to be audited in in the Financial Statements and the part of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the the Group Financial Statements give a true Financial Statements give a true and fair view and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as and whether the Financial Statements and the adopted by the EU, of the state of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 be audited have been properly prepared in and of its profit for the year then ended: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, the Company Financial Statements give a as regards the Financial Statements, Article 4 true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you adopted by the EU as applied in accordance whether, in our opinion, the information given with the provisions of the Companies Act in the Directors Report is consistent with the 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs financial statements.
In addition we report to as at 31 December 2007: and you if, in our opinion, the Company has not the Financial Statements and the part of kept proper accounting records, if we have not the Directors Remuneration Report to be received all the information and explanations we audited have been properly prepared in require for our audit, or if information specified by accordance with the Companies Act 1985 law regarding Directors remuneration and other and, as regards the Financial Statements, transactions is not disclosed.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report We review whether the Corporate is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine KPMG Audit Plc provisions of the 2006 Combined Code Chartered Accountants specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Registered Auditor the Financial Services Authority, and we report Leeds if it does not.
We are not required to consider 12 February 2008 whether the Boards statements on internal
