Directors Responsibility Statement and Independent Auditors Report Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Directors Responsibility Statement Auditors The Directors are required by law to prepare The Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements for each financial period which Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and the financial statements in accordance with Company at the end of the financial period and of applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting the net return for that period.
Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted They are also responsible for ensuring that adequate Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors accounting records are maintained, that the assets Responsibility Statement.
of the Company are safeguarded, and that Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements reasonable steps are taken to prevent and detect and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report fraud and other irregularities.
to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and The financial statements have been prepared on a regulatory requirements and International Standards going concern basis.
Appropriate accounting on Auditing UK and Ireland.
policies have been used and consistently applied and reasonable and prudent judgements and We report to you our opinion as to whether the estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements give a true and fair view, the financial statements.
Applicable UK accounting financial statements and the part of the Directors standards have been followed.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Independent Auditors Report to the Companies Act 1985 and whether the information Members of British Assets Trust plc given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
We have audited the Companys financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007 We also report to you, if, in our opinion, the which comprise the Income Statement, Company has not kept proper accounting records, if Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders we have not received all the information and Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, and explanations we require for our audit, or if related notes 1 to 22.
These financial statements information specified by law regarding directors have been prepared under the accounting policies remuneration and other transactions is not set out therein.
We have also audited the disclosed.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We review whether the Corporate Governance This report is made solely to the Companys Statement reflects the Companys compliance with members, as a body, in accordance with Section the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial been undertaken so that we might state to the Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Companys members those matters we are required are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and to state to them in an auditors report and for no controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the Companys corporate governance procedures or law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to its risk and control procedures.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 Directors Responsibility Statement and Independent Auditors Report continued We read the other information contained in the Opinion Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent In our opinion: with the audited financial statements.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, information comprises only the Company Summary, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Financial Highlights for the Year, Performance Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of Summary, Chairmans Statement, Investment affairs of the Company as at 30 September 2007 Managers and Investment Process, Managers and of the net return for the year then ended: Review, Investment Portfolio, Classification of.
the financial statements and the part of the Investments, Capital Structure, Ten Year Record, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Board of Directors, Report of the Directors, the have been properly prepared in accordance with unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration the Companies Act 1985: and Report, Shareholder Information, How to Invest, Notice of Annual General Meeting, Proxy and.
the information given in the Report of the Corporate Information.
We consider the implications Directors is consistent with the financial for our report if we become aware of any apparent statements.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion Ernst & Young LLP We conducted our audit in accordance with Registered Auditor International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Edinburgh issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit 16 November 2007 includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
