REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS United Kingdom Opinion financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report Independent auditors report to the members of British of the Directors.
We consider the implications for our report if we Telecommunications plc become aware of any apparent misstatements or material We have audited the group financial statements of British inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which do not extend to any other information.
comprise the group income statement, the group balance sheet, the group cash ow statement, the group statement of recognised income and expense, accounting policies and the related notes.
These group Basis of audit opinion financial statements are set out on pages 29 to 86 and 105.
These We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An policies set out therein.
audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the We have reported separately on the parent company financial amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements 31 March 2007.
This separate report is set out on page 88. made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and information and explanations which we considered necessary in order International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that European Union are set out in the statement of directors the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, responsibilities.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and information in the group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Opinion Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving In our opinion: this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to s the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial ows for the year then ended: statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial s the group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report Regulation: and to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of s the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent the Directors is consistent with the group financial statements.
with the group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if  LLP information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors other transactions is not disclosed.
London, United Kingdom We read other information contained in the Annual Report and 16 May 2007 Form 20-F and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group United States Opinion Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Board As discussed in the accounting policies section in the financial of Directors and Shareholders of British Telecommunications plc statements, the group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 April 2005 In our opinion, the accompanying group income statements and the prospectively.
related group balance sheets, group statements of cash ows and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union vary in certain significant group statements of recognised income and expense present fairly, in all respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United material respects, the financial position of British Telecommunications States of America.
Information relating to the nature and effect of such plc and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2007 and 2006, and the results of differences, as restated, is presented in the United States Generally their operations and their cash ows for each of the three years in the Accepted Accounting Principles note to the consolidated financial period ended 31 March 2007, in conformity with International statements note 35.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the  LLP companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our London, United Kingdom audits of these financial statements in accordance with the standards of 16 May 2007 the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statements presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
28 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the independent auditors
