Independent Auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the annual report as described the financial statements of Caledonia Investments plc for the year ended in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the 31 March 2007 which comprise the group and parent company income audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report statements, the group and parent company balance sheets, the group and if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material parent company cash flow statements, the group and parent company inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not statements of recognised income and expenses, and the related notes extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the Basis of audit opinion accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on in the directors remuneration report that is described as having Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information opinions we have formed.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial responsibilities.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant Opinion legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing In our opinion: UK and Ireland.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups and true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of the groups directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared and the parent companys profit for the year then ended: in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and directors report includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross referenced from the principal activities and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the results section of the directors report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Deloitte & Touche LLP Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider London, United Kingdom whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and 30 May 2007 controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
30 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
