REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR TO THE MEMBERS OF CANDOVER INVESTMENTS PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the annual report and statements the financial statements of Candover Investments consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial plc for the year ended 31st December, 2007 which comprise the statements.
The other information comprises only the directors accounting policies, the Group income statement, the Group and report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, parent company balance sheets, the Group and parent company the Chairmans statement, the operational and financial reviews, cash flow statements, the Group and parent company statement the valuation policy, the 20 largest investments, the corporate of recognised income and expenses and the Group and parent governance statement and other information listed in the contents.
company reconciliation of movements in equity and notes 1 to 27.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of These financial statements have been prepared under the any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any information in the directors remuneration report that is described other information.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the Companys members those matters we are required to state to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are have formed.
appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the directors remuneration report and the financial statements information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with applicable law and International Financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material on page 35. misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance statements and the part of the directors remuneration report with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International to be audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements In our opinion: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December, 2007 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of and of its profit for the year then ended the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the parent company financial statements give a true and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions includes that specific information presented in the Operational and of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Financial Reviews and the Chairmans statement that is crosscompanys affairs as at 31st December, 2007 referred from the business review section of the directors report.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if IAS Regulation information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the information given in the directors report is consistent and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Grant Thornton UK LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Registered Auditor the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Chartered Accountants are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on London the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures 31st March, 2008 or its risk and control procedures.
