20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 45 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 45 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of The City of London Investments, Portfolio Managers Report, Estimated Performance Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30 June 2007 which Attribution Analysis, Distribution of the Portfolio, Investments, comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in Classification of Investments and Portfolio Weighting, Directors Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement and and Management, Report of the Directors including the Business the related notes 1 to 26.
These financial statements have been Review, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Statement of Directors also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Responsibilities, Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders, Brief History, that is described as having been audited.
Dates of Dividend and Interest Payments, Glossary of Terms, General Shareholder Information, Annual General Meeting Venue, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Notice of Annual General Meeting and Directors and Other accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We consider the implications for our report if we work has been undertaken so that we might state to the become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Companys members those matters we are required to state to them inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent do not extend to any other information.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a Basis of audit opinion body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards have formed.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International information and explanations which we considered necessary in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial assurance that the financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the presentation of information in the financial statements and the the information given in the directors report is consistent with the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has In our opinion: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of other transactions is not disclosed.
the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 the financial statements and the part of the Directors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal the information given in the directors report is consistent with control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the the financial statements.
effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Registered Auditor statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial London 30 August 2007 Highlights, Chairmans Statement, Historical Performance, Top 40
