ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 29 Independent Auditors' Report To The Members Of Bodycote International Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Bodycote BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION International plc for the year ended 31 December 2007, which We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Statement of to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements and Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 31.
These group financial the part of the Board Report on Remuneration to be audited.
It also statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments therein.
We have also audited the information in the Board Report on made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Bodycote International plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit group financial statements and the part of the Board Report on work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys Remuneration to be audited are free from material misstatement, members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than the of information in the group financial statements and the part of the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, Board Report on Remuneration to be audited.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS In our opinion: The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Board Report on Remuneration and the Group financial statements the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in state of the group's affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having statements give a true and fair view, whether the group financial been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the the part of the Board Report on Remuneration described as having Group financial statements.
been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the As explained in the statement of accounting policies, the Group in group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors' addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs Report includes the information presented in the Group Business as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRSs as Review cross-referred from the Directors Report.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Group's affairs specified by law regarding director's remuneration and other transactions as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Deloitte & Touche LLP consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all Chartered Accountants and Manchester risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's Registered Auditors 26 February 2008 corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
