Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules We have audited the financial statements of Dunedin Income of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Growth Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 January 2007 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Cash We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Flow Statement and the related notes.
These financial statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance We have also audited the information in the Directors procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We consider the implications for our report if we audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Companys members those matters we are required to state to inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the do not extend to any other information.
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Basis of Audit Opinion Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International or for the opinions we have formed.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 29. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance information and explanations which we considered necessary in with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our Report to be audited.
opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Opinion Directors Report includes that specific information presented in In our opinion: the Corporate Summary, Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review that is cross referenced from the business the financial statements give a true and fair view, in review section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2007 records, if we have not received all the information and and of its total return for the year then ended: explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified the financial statements and the part of the Directors by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 20 March 2007 Edinburgh 32 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
