Independent Auditors Report Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does TO THE MEMBERS OF THE not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC statements on internal controls cover all risks and We have audited the financial statements of The controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Edinburgh Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31 Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk March 2007 which comprise the Income Statement, and control procedures.
the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, We read the other information contained in the the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent related notes.
These financial statements have been with the audited financial statements.
We consider the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
implications for our report if we become aware of any We have also audited the information in the Directors apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Remuneration Report that is described as having with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do been audited.
not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the so that we might state to the Companys members Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, those matters we are required to state to them in on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also assume responsibility to anyone other than the includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Company and the Companys members as a body, judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the financial statements, and of whether the accounting we have formed.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain AND AUDITORS all the information and explanations which we considered The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted be audited are free from material misstatement, whether Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Directors Responsibilities on page 24. our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of the presentation of information in the financial and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
OPINION We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
31 March 2007 and of its total return for the year We also report to you whether in our opinion the then ended: information given in the Directors Report is consistent the financial statements and the part of the Directors with the financial statements.
The information given in Remuneration Report to be audited have been the Directors Report includes that specific information properly prepared in accordance with the Companies presented in the Business Review section of the Act 1985: and Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our the information given in the Directors Report is opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting consistent with the financial statements.
records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and KPMG Audit Plc other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate Governance Registered Auditor Statement reflects the Companys compliance with Edinburgh the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code 25 May 2007 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 27
