Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of Edinburgh US Tracker on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance Trust plc for the year ended 31 January 2007 which comprise the procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Reconciliation of We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Movement in Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow Statement, and and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also become aware of any apparent misstatements or material audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities that is described as having been audited.
do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Basis of audit opinion in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We conducted our audit in accordance with International audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Companys members those matters we are required to state to Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation or for the opinions we have formed.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK information and explanations which we considered necessary in Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 20. assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Opinion be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our the financial statements give a true and fair view, in opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, with the financial statements.
The information given in the of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2007 Directors Report includes that specific information presented in and of its total return for the year then ended: the Chairmans Statement, Managers Review and Highlights that the financial statements and the part of the Directors is cross referenced from the Business Review section of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the information given in the Directors Report is consistent received all the information and explanations we require for our with the financial statements.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules KPMG Audit Plc of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Registered Auditor We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Chartered Accountants on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion 14 March 2007 Edinburgh Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 23
