Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of F&C Asset Management plc We have audited the Consolidated and Company Financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Statements the ''Financial Statements'' of F&C Asset consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated become aware of any apparent misstatements or material and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow do not extend to any other information.
Statement and the related notes.
These financial statements have Basis of audit opinion been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International Report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Financial Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the company's members those matters we are required to state to significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the preparation of the Financial Statements, and of whether the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume accounting policies are appropriate to the group's and company's responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Company irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Financial Statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report in overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the be audited.
Statement of Directors' Responsibilities on page 50.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and the part In our opinion: of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial its profit for the year then ended: Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Financial the Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Consolidated Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you the Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Report is consistent with the Financial Statements.
The of the state of the parent company's affairs as at 31 information given in the Directors Report includes the information December 2007: presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Directors report.
the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 1985: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 KPMG Audit Plc Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Chartered Accountants the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Registered Auditor are not required to consider whether the board's statements on Edinburgh internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance 20 March 2008 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
