BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 187 .
l. c. We haveaudited the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the yearended 31December 2007 which comprise the company balance sheet, the company cash ow statement, the company statement of total recognizedgains and lossesand the related notes 1 to 13.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policiesset out therein.
We have alsoaudited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described ashaving been audited.
We havereported separatelyon the consolidated financial statements of BPp.
l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This reportis madesolely to the companys members, asa body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertakensothat we might state to the companys members those matters weare required to state to them in anauditors report and for no other purpose.
Tothe fullest extent permitted by law, wedo not accept or assume responsibilityto anyone other thanthe company and the companys members asa body, for our audit work, for thisreport, or for the opinionswehave formed.
 The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors  the parent company nancialstatements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law andaccounting standards United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility isto audit the parent company nancialstatements and the partof the  be audited in accordance with relevant legal and   onAuditing UK and Ireland.
We reportto you our opinion asto whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair viewand whether the parent company financial statements and the partof the  Reportto be audited havebeen properlypreparedin accordancewith the Companies Act 1985.
We alsoreport to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directorsreport isconsistent with the financial statements.
In addition wereportto you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accountingrecords, if we have not received all the information and explanations werequire for our audit, or if information specified bylaw regarding  other transactions isnot disclosed.
We read other information containedin the Annual Reportand consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises the Directorsreport and the unauditedpart of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencieswith the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilitiesdo not extend to any other information.
Basisofauditopinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the AuditingPractices Board.
An audit includes examination, ona test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosuresin the parent company financial statements and the part of the  Reportto be audited.
It  of the significant estimates and judgements made bythe directors in the preparation of the parent company nancialstatements, and of whether the accountingpolicies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit soasto obtain all the information and explanations  in order to provide uswith sufficient evidenceto givereasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the partof the Directors RemunerationReportto be audited are free , whether caused byfraud or other irregularityor error.
Informing our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacyof the presentationof information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordancewith UnitedKingdom generally accepted accounting practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2007.
The parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to beaudited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The information given in the directors reportis consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 22 February2008 The maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may haveoccurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented onthe website or any other website theyare presented on.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparationand disseminationof financial statements maydiffer fromlegislation in other jurisdictions.
