Report of the Independent Auditor to the Shareholders of Fidelity European Values PLC We have audited the financial statements the ''financial We read other information contained in the annual report statements'' of Fidelity European Values PLC for the year and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the income financial statements.
The other information comprises only statement, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders' the Objective and Highlights, Financial Summary, Chairman's funds, the balance sheet, the cash flow statement, and notes Statement, Manager's Review, Ten Largest Investments, 1 to 20.
These financial statements have been prepared Summary of Performance, Directors' Report, Corporate under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the Directors' audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Remuneration Report, Full Portfolio Listing and Distribution Report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or This report is made solely to the Companys shareholders, material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys shareholders those matters we BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for We conducted our audit in accordance with International no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, than the Company and the Companys shareholders as a on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the we have formed.
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS the financial statements, and of whether the accounting The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the annual report, policies are appropriate to the Company's circumstances, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements in accordance with United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors' information and explanations which we considered necessary Responsibilities.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration OPINION Report to be audited have been properly prepared in In our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report the financial statements give a true and fair view, in to you whether in our opinion the information given in the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company then ended: has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements and the part of the Directors' received all the information and explanations we require Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement with the financial statements.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Grant Thornton UK LLP Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the London, England Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and 27 February 2008 controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Page 32 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007
