Independent Auditors Report whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all Independent Auditors Report to the risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of shareholders members of Foreign & Colonial the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk Investment Trust PLC and control procedures.
We have audited the financial statements of Foreign & Colonial We read other information contained in the Annual Report Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, financial statements.
The other information comprises the Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements only the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report and in Shareholders Funds and the related notes.
These financial Business Review, the unaudited part of the Directors statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Remuneration Report, Financial Highlights, Twenty Largest set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Holdings, the Corporate Governance statement and Ten Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Year Records.
We consider the implications for our report been audited.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Basis of audit opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We conducted our audit in accordance with International United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Directors Statement of Responsibilities.
on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This judgements made by the directors in the preparation of report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and the financial statements, and of whether the accounting only for the companys members as a body in accordance policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other all the information and explanations which we considered person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands necessary, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and consent in writing.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial are free from material misstatement, whether caused by statements give a true and fair view and whether the fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we financial statements and the part of the Directors also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly information in the financial statements and the part of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report and Business Opinion Review is consistent with the financial statements.
The In our opinion: information given in the Directors Report and Business the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Review includes that specific information presented in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Chairmans Statement, Fund Managers Review and Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys Twenty Largest Holdings that is cross referred from the affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its net return and Business Review section of the Directors Report and cash flows for the year then ended: Business Review.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and have not received all the information and explanations the information given in the Directors Report and Business we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Review is consistent with the financial statements.
regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance statement Hays Galleria reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions 1 Hays Lane of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review London SE1 2RD by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and 7 March 2008 we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 36 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
