qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS Independent Auditors report to the members of Friends Provident plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the statements the financial statements of Friends Provident plc effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the its risk and control procedures.
Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and parent Company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the become aware of any apparent misstatements or material information in the Remuneration Report of the Board that is inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities described as having been audited.
do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Basis of audit opinion accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited.
It also other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the EU, and for preparing the parent Company financial statements and information and explanations which we considered necessary in order the Remuneration Report of the Board in accordance with applicable to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors of the Board to be audited are free from material misstatement, Responsibilities on page 60. whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of information in the financial statements and the part of the the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited in accordance Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements  the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of part of the Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited have been the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss for properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as the year then ended: regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
 the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
IAS Regulation: The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific  the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, information presented in the Review of the Year that is cross in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of referred from the Business review section of the Directors Report.
the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Remuneration Report of the Board to be audited have been properly the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration  the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects KPMG Audit Plc the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Chartered Accountants Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Registered Auditor Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not London required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal 18 March 2008 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 73
