qxd 2 4 08 10:40 Page 23 Statement of the Independent Auditor Statement of the Independent Auditor to the members of Friends Provident plc pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the summary financial statements which requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and comprises the Summary consolidated income statement, the regulations made thereunder.
Summary consolidated balance sheet, Summary consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and Summary We also read the other information contained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 15 to 19. summarised annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state BASIS OF OPINION to the Companys members those matters we are required We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
The auditor's statement on the summary financial statement To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Groups full annual financial statements describes the basis the Companys members as a body, for our work, for this of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS OPINION AND AUDITOR In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report annual report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
and the Directors Remuneration Report of Friends Provident plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and complies with Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies consistency of the summary financial statement within Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
the summarised annual report with the full annual financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors KPMG Audit Plc Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor, London 18 March 2008 Statement of the Independent Auditor to the members of Friends Provident plc We have examined the EEV Summary Financial Statements of We also read the other information contained in the summarised Friends Provident plc set out on pages 20 and 21. annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material This statement is made solely to the Company in accordance inconsistencies with the EEV Summary Financial Statements.
with our terms of engagement.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we are BASIS OF OPINION required to state to them in such a statement and for no other We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept The auditor's statement on the summary financial statement or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the our work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Groups full EEV basis supplementary information describes the basis of our audit opinion on that supplementary information.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS OPINION The directors are responsible for preparing the EEV Summary In our opinion, the EEV Summary Financial Statements are Financial Statements within the summarised annual report.
consistent with the full EEV basis supplementary information in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Under the terms of our engagement, our responsibility is to 31 December 2007. report to the Company our opinion on the consistency of the EEV Summary Financial Statements with the full EEV basis KPMG Audit Plc supplementary information set out in the Groups Annual Report Chartered Accountants, Registered Auditor, London and Accounts and prepared in accordance with the European 18 March 2008 Embedded Value principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005.
