152 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Independent auditors report to the members of HBOS plc We have audited the Consolidated and Parent Company Basis of audit opinion financial statements the financial statements of HBOS plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Parent of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Parent financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the and the related notes.
These financial statements have been signi cant estimates and judgments made by the directors prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Report that is described as having been audited.
Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might information and explanations which we considered necessary state to the Companys members those matters we are required in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of the presentation of information in the financial statements and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Opinion in accordance with applicable law and International Financial In our opinion: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 150. the Consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its pro t part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in for the year then ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Act 1985, of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report December 2007: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the financial statements and the part of the Directors statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly to you whether in our opinion, the information given in the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS information given in the Directors Report includes that speci c Regulation: and information presented in the Annual Report that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration KPMG Audit Plc and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Edinburgh re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing 26 February 2008 Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
