PLC ACCOUNTS REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO P. L. C. We have audited the parent company Financial Statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended and Accounts and consider whether it is consistent with the 31 December 2007 which comprise the Balance Sheet audited parent company Financial Statements.
The other and the related notes.
These parent company Financial information comprises only the Quick read, the Operating Statements have been prepared under the accounting and financial review, the Board of directors, the Management policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Board, the Directors report, the unaudited part of the information in the Remuneration report that is described Remuneration report, the Corporate governance statement, as having been audited.
the Five year summary, the Quarterly analyses of profit, the Group Financial Statements and the Shareholder information.
We have reported separately on the Group Financial We consider the implications for our report if we become Statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies year ended 31 December 2007. with the parent company Financial Statements.
Our Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Basis of audit opinion Report and Accounts, including the Remuneration report We conducted our audit in accordance with International and the parent company Financial Statements, in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the disclosures in the parent company Financial Statements Statement of directors responsibility in relation to the and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It Financial Statements, included in the Directors report.
also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of Our responsibility is to audit the parent company Financial Statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be the parent company Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the prepared for and only for the Companys members as a information and explanations which we considered necessary body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving assurance that the parent company Financial Statements this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are purpose or to any other person to whom this report is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud shown or into whose hands it may come, save where or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company Financial Statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Financial Statements give a true and fair view and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
and whether the parent company Financial Statements Opinion and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited In our opinion: have been properly prepared in accordance with the the parent company Financial Statements give a true Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom in our opinion, the information given in the Directors Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state report is consistent with the parent company Financial of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: Statements.
The information given in the Directors the parent company Financial Statements and the part of report includes that specific information presented in the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly the Operating and financial review that is cross referred prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and from the Business review section of the Directors report.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company Financial Statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not  LLP received all the information and explanations we require Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding 1 Embankment Place, London Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
27 February 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 169 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
