REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO P. L. C. We have audited the Group Financial Statements of 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended to you whether, in our opinion, the information given 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group income in the Directors report is consistent with the Group statement, the Group statement of changes in total Financial Statements.
The information given in the equity, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow Directors report includes that specific information statement, and the related notes including the Principal presented in the Operating and financial review that subsidiary undertakings and the Principal associate is cross referred from the Business review section of undertakings.
These Group Financial Statements the Directors report.
have been prepared under the accounting policies In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we set out therein.
have not received all the information and explanations We have reported separately on the parent company we require for our audit, or if information specified by Financial Statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. law regarding Directors remuneration and other for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the transactions is not disclosed.
information in the Remuneration report that is described We review whether the Corporate governance as having been audited.
statement reflects the Companys compliance with Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Report and Accounts, including the Group Financial Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Statements, in accordance with applicable law and not.
We are not required to consider whether the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Boards statements on internal control cover all risks as adopted by the European Union, are set out in the and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the of the Groups corporate governance procedures or Financial Statements, included in the Directors report.
its risk and control procedures.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial We read other information contained in the Annual Statements in accordance with relevant legal and Report and Accounts and consider whether it is regulatory requirements and International Standards consistent with the audited Group Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Quick read, on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the Operating and financial review, the Board of the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Directors, the Management Board, the Directors Companys members as a body in accordance with report, the Remuneration report, the Corporate Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no governance statement, the Five year summary, the other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Quarterly analyses of profit, the parent company accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose Financial Statements and the Shareholder information.
or to any other person to whom this report is shown We consider the implications for our report if we or into whose hands it may come, save where expressly become aware of any apparent misstatements agreed by our prior consent in writing.
or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view other information.
and whether the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 84 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS GROUP ACCOUNTS go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Financial Statements.
Opinion In our opinion the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 1 Embankment Place, London 27 February 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 85 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
