Governance ICAP plc 51 Annual Report 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider financial statements of ICAP plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated information comprises only the financial highlights, the Chairmans and Company statements of recognised income and expense, the introduction, the business review, the directors profiles, directors report, consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated and the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Company cash flow statements and the related notes.
We consider the implications for our report statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material therein.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration report inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities that is described as having been audited.
do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant as adopted by the EU are set out in the statement of directors to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part responsibilities included in the directors report.
of the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and policies are appropriate to the Companys and Groups circumstances, regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited are hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared Opinion in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you In our opinion: whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs directors report includes that specific information presented in the as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year business review that is cross referred from the activities, business review then ended: of the directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company or Group has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the other transactions is not disclosed.
parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended: We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys and Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2006 specified to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the information given in the directors report is consistent with the the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, financial statements.
or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 23 May 2007
