IG Group Holdings plc 82 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of IG Group Holdings plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company of IG Group Holdings plc for the year ended 31 May 2007 has not kept proper accounting records, or if we have not which comprise the Group income statement, the Group and received all the information and explanations we require for Company balance sheets, the Group and Company cash flow our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors statements, the Group and Company statements of changes in remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
shareholders equity and the related notes 1 to 31.
These Group We review whether the corporate governance statement and Company financial statements have been prepared under reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the accounting policies set out therein.
of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the We have also audited the information in the directors Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act corporate governance procedures or its risk and control 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might procedures.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We read other information contained in the annual report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and and Company financial statements.
The other information the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this comprises only the directors report, the Chairmans statement, report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Chief Executives report, the operating and financial review, the statement of directors responsibilities the corporate Respective responsibilities of directors and governance statement and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our auditors report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, material inconsistencies with the Group and Company financial the directors remuneration report, and the Group and statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Company financial statements in accordance with applicable information.
United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as set out Basis of audit opinion in the statement of directors responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Our responsibility is to audit the Group and Company financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing statements and the part of the directors remuneration report Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Group and Company financial statements and the part of the Ireland.
directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group and by the directors in the preparation of the Group and Company Company financial statements give a true and fair view and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies whether the Group and Company financial statements and the are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the whether in our opinion the information given in the directors information and explanations which we considered necessary report is consistent with the Group and Company financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give statements.
The information given in the directors report reasonable assurance that the Group and Company financial includes that specific information presented in the operating statements and the part of the directors remuneration report and financial review and Chief Executives report that is cross to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether referred from the review of business section of the directors caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group and Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
IG Group Holdings plc 83 Independent Auditors Report Report and Financial Statements 2007 Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 May 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 May 2007: the Group and Company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group and Company financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 23 July 2007
