British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 44 independent Auditors report to the Members of British Energy group plc We have audited the group financial statements of British We read other information contained in the Annual report and Energy group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which consider whether it is consistent with the audited group comprise the consolidated income statement, the financial statements.
the other information comprises only consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the Directors report, the unaudited part of the remuneration the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement Committee report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief of cash flows and the related notes.
these group financial Executives Business review, the Financial review, the report statements have been prepared under the accounting policies on Corporate social responsibility and the report on set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or We have reported separately on the parent company financial material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
statements of British Energy group plc for the year ended 31 our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
March 2007 and on the information in the remuneration Committee report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with international Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors standards on Auditing uK and ireland issued by the Auditing the Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test report and the group financial statements in accordance basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in with applicable law and international Financial reporting the group financial statements.
it also includes an standards iFrs as adopted by the European union are assessment of the significant estimates and judgements set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements applied and adequately disclosed.
and international standards on Auditing uK and ireland.
this report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the for the Companys members as a body in accordance with information and explanations which we considered necessary section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume reasonable assurance that the group financial statements responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to are free from material misstatement, whether caused by whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come fraud or other irregularity or error.
in forming our opinion we save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the group Opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in in our opinion: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the group financial statements give a true and fair view, the iAs regulations.
We also report to you whether, in our in accordance with iFrs as adopted by the European opinion, the information given in the Directors report is union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March consistent with the group financial statements.
the 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then information given in the Directors report includes that ended: specific information presented in the Chief Executives the group financial statements have been properly Business review and the Financial review that is cross prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 referred from the review of the Business section of the and Article 4 of the iAs regulation: and Directors report.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the group financial statements.
in addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate governance statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Edinburgh the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing rules of the Financial services Authority, and we 30 May 2007 report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether notes: the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and a the maintenance and integrity of the British Energy group plc website controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, control procedures.
accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
