Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 23 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Abcam plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial Basis of audit opinion statements the financial statements of Abcam plc for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with International ended 30 June 2007, which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Account, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Total Recognised of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Gains and Losses and the related notes 1 to 25.
It also includes an assessment of the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in out therein.
the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members those matters we are required to state to information and explanations which we considered necessary them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume assurance that the financial statements are free from material responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Opinion and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law In our opinion: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted statement of Directors responsibilities.
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Groups and the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of the Groups profit Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in for the year then ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the financial statements have been properly prepared in and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial with the financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Cambridge, UK the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 28 September 2007 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Review, the CEOs review, the Managing Directors Review, and the Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
