co. uk ar07 financials International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 55 Independent auditors report to the members of International Personal Finance plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual Report the financial statements of International Personal Finance plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated statements.
The other information comprises only the directors income statement, the Group and Company balance sheets, the report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, Group and Company cash flow statements, the Group and Company the Executive Chairman and Chief Operating Officers review, the statements of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
business review, the financial review and the corporate governance These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to The pro forma information included on pages 87 to 91 is unaudited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the directors remuneration report and the financial statements on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Reporting Standards, as adopted by the European Union IFRS are to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 49. the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the and adequately disclosed.
opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept information and explanations which we considered necessary or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may assurance that the financial statements and the part of the come, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Opinion IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the In our opinion: information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, includes that specific information presented in the business review in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of that is cross referred from the review of the business section of the the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of directors report.
its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December information specified by law regarding directors remuneration 2007 and cash flows for the period then ended: and other transactions is not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration We review whether the corporate governance statement report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the consolidated of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report the information given in the directors report is consistent with if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards the financial statements.
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or  LLP form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
