Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of The Basis of Audit Opinion BSS Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These Parent Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent the Report of the Remuneration Committee that is described as Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the having been audited.
Remuneration Committee to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and The BSS Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007. of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Report of the Remuneration Committee and the Parent Company information and explanations which we considered necessary in order financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are free from material Directors Responsibilities.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial the presentation of information in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Committee to be audited.
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been Opinion prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in In our opinion: accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007 expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Company financial statements and the part of the Report of the with the Parent Company financial statements.
Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the  LLP Directors is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that Birmingham specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, the 29 May 2007 Group Chief Executives Business Review, the Our Business section, the Corporate Responsibility Report and the Financial Review on pages 2 to 15 that are cross referred from the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairmans Statement, the Our Business Section, the Risk Review, the Group Chief Executives Business Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Report, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities and the Directors and Executive Members biographies contained within pages 2 to 29.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 58
