Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The BSS Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of The BSS Group We read other information contained in the Annual Report and PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group Cash Flow Statement, Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Our Business section, and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been the Risk Review, the Group Chief Executives Business Review, the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Financial Review, the Corporate Responsibility Report, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate Governance Report, the Statement We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial of Directors Responsibilities, the unaudited part of the Report statements of The BSS Group PLC for the year ended 31 March of the Remuneration Committee, and Directors and Executive 2007 and on the information in the Report of the Remuneration Members biographies contained within pages 1 to 29.
We Committee that is described as having been audited.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and to any other information.
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Basis of Audit Opinion by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Responsibilities.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in adequately disclosed.
giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our information and explanations which we considered necessary in order prior consent in writing.
to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the information in the Group financial statements.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Opinion Report of the Directors is consistent with the Group financial In our opinion: statements.
The information given in the Report of the Directors includes the specific information presented in the Chairmans the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Statement, the Group Chief Executives Business Review, the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the Our Business section, the Corporate Responsibility Report and state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit the Financial Review on pages 2 to 15 that are cross referred from and cash flows for the year then ended the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received IAS Regulation and all the information and explanations we require for our audit, the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent or if information specified by law regarding the Report of the with the Group financial statements.
Remuneration Committee and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects  LLP the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Birmingham Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are 29 May 2007 not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 30
