INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the Parent Company 1985.
We also report to you whether in Directors Remuneration Report to be financial statements of Jardine Lloyd our opinion the information given in audited are free from material Thompson Group plc for the year the Directors' Report is consistent with misstatement, whether caused by fraud ended 31st December 2007 which the Parent Company financial or other irregularity or error.
In forming comprise the Balance Sheet, statements.
our opinion we also evaluated the Reconciliation of movement in overall adequacy of the presentation of In addition we report to you if, in our Shareholders Funds and the related information in the Parent Company opinion, the Company has not kept notes.
These Parent Company financial financial statements and the part of the proper accounting records, if we have statements have been prepared under Directors Remuneration Report to be not received all the information and the accounting policies set out therein.
explanations we require for our audit, We have also audited the information or if information specified by law in the Directors Remuneration Report regarding directors remuneration and that is described as having been other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion: We read other information contained in We have reported separately on the the Parent Company financial the Annual Report and consider Group financial statements of Jardine statements give a true and fair view, whether it is consistent with the Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year in accordance with United Kingdom audited Parent Company financial ended 31st December 2007.
The other information Practice, of the state of the comprises only Chairmans Statement, Respective responsibilities of Companys affairs as at 31 Chief Executives Report, Review of directors and auditors December 2007.
Operations, Finance Directors Review, The directors responsibilities for Directors Report, the unaudited parts the Parent Company financial preparing the Annual Report, the of the Directors Remuneration Report.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the We consider the implications for our Directors Remuneration Report to Parent Company financial statements in report if we become aware of any be audited have been properly accordance with applicable law and apparent misstatements or material prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom Accounting Standards inconsistencies with the Parent Companies Act 1985: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company financial statements.
Our the information given in the Accounting Practice are set out in the responsibilities do not extend to any Directors' Report is consistent with Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the Parent Company financial Our responsibility is to audit the Parent statements.
Basis of audit opinion Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance Report to be audited in accordance with International Standards on  LLP with relevant legal and regulatory Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Chartered Accountants and Registered requirements and International Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
includes examination, on a test basis, of London This report, including the opinion, has evidence relevant to the amounts and 20th March 2008 been prepared for and only for the disclosures in the Parent Company Companys members as a body in financial statements and the part of the accordance with Section 235 of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Notes: Companies Act 1985 and for no other audited.
It also includes an assessment a The maintenance and integrity of the purpose.
We do not, in giving this of the significant estimates and Jardine Lloyd Thompson website is the opinion, accept or assume responsibility judgments made by the directors in the responsibility of the directors: the work for any other purpose or to any other preparation of the Parent Company carried out by the auditors does not person to whom this report is shown or financial statements, and of whether involve consideration of these matters into whose hands it may come save the accounting policies are appropriate and, accordingly, the auditors accept no where expressly agreed by our prior to the Companys circumstances, responsibility for any changes that may consent in writing.
consistently applied and adequately have occurred to the financial statements disclosed.
since they were initially presented on the We report to you our opinion as to website.
whether the Parent Company financial We planned and performed our audit statements give a true and fair view so as to obtain all the information and b Legislation in the United Kingdom and whether the Parent Company explanations which we considered governing the preparation and financial statements and the part of the necessary in order to provide us with dissemination of financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be sufficient evidence to give reasonable may differ from legislation in other audited have been properly prepared in assurance that the Parent Company jurisdictions.
accordance with the Companies Act financial statements and the part of the 102 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
