Group Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Jardine Review of Operations, Finance Directors Review, Directors Lloyd Thompson Group plc for the year ended 31st Report and the unaudited part of the Directors December 2007, which comprise the Consolidated Income Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Statement of Recognised Income and Expenses, the material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the Parent Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the financial statements of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc for Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the year ended 31st December 2007 and on the information on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes having been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group Respective responsibilities of directors financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies and auditors are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report applied and adequately disclosed.
and the Group financial statements in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the applicable law and International Financial Reporting information and explanations which we considered necessary Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been information in the Group financial statements.
prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 Opinion and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to In our opinion: any other person to whom this report is shown or into the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European our prior consent in writing.
Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group year then ended: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the Group financial statements have been properly in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent consistent with the Group financial statements.
with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding  LLP directors remuneration and other transactions is not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors disclosed.
London 20th March 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Notes: of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the The maintenance and integrity of the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Group plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work report if it does not.
We are not required to consider carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and financial statements since they were initially presented on the control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation financial statements.
The other information comprises only in other jurisdictions.
the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Report, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 43 Group Financial Statements
