JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 44 Independent Auditors Report We read other information contained in the Annual Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of and consider whether it is consistent with the audited JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc accounts.
The other information comprises only the Results, We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan European Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st March 2007 which Summaries of Results, Financial Record, Portfolio Analyses, comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Investment Activities, Ten Largest Investments, Portfolio Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Income Statements, Portfolio Balance Sheets, Shareholder Movements in Shareholders Funds and the Cash Flow Analyses, Directors Report, Corporate Governance, the Statement, Accounting Policies a to i and the related notes 1 to unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, 25.
These accounts have been prepared under the accounting Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts, policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information Information about the Company, Notice of Annual General in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Meeting and Glossary of Terms.
We consider the implications having been audited.
for our report if we become aware of any apparent This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Basis of audit opinion state to the Companys members those matters we are required We conducted our audit in accordance with International to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Company and the Companys members as a body, for our disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounts whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted adequately disclosed.
Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of a true and fair view, the accounts and the part of the information in the accounts and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Remuneration Report to be audited.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the information given in the Directors Report is Opinion consistent with the accounts.
In our opinion: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, information and explanations we require for our audit, or if of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st March 2007 information specified by law regarding Directors and of its return for the year then ended: remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we with the accounts.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and ERNST & YOUNG LLP controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Registered Auditor London, 8th June 2007 Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
