JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 27 1 Independent Auditors Report To the shareholders of JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile accounts.
The other information comprises only the Investment Trust plc Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report, the We have audited the accounts of the JPMorgan Fleming Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Statement and Mercantle Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st January the other elements of the investment review and the unaudited 2007 which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the implications for our report if we become aware of any Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
These accounts apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the have been prepared under the accounting policies set out accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors information.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a and the accounts in accordance with applicable United test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in for preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This information and explanations which we considered necessary report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give for the Companys members as a body in accordance with reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a to be audited.
true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Opinion properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion: We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the Directors' Report is consistent with the accounts.
the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st January 2007 not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors' remuneration the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the with the accounts.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's corporate governance procedures or its risk and  LLP control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, 11th April 2007 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 1 The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the accounts may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the accounts need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
