Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 51 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and the financial statements of Bunzl plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Recognised Income and Expense and the related Notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated EU and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting be audited.
Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements then ended: give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the Group financial statements have been properly prepared properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the IAS Regulation: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
As the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, described in the Directors Report, the information provided therein in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, includes the specific information presented in the separate Annual of the state of the parent companys affairs at 31 December 2007: Review and Summary Financial Statement that is cross referred from the Principal activity and business review section of the the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Report.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with information and explanations we require for our audit or if information the financial statements.
specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects Registered Auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 London Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 25 February 2008 Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
