Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 STATEMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 31 STATEMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC Pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Summary Financial Basis of opinion Statement set out on pages 24 to 30.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on This statement is made solely to the Companys the summary financial statement issued by the members, as a body, in accordance with Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our report on the Groups full annual Our work has been undertaken so that we financial statements describes the basis of our might state to the Companys members those audit opinion on those financial statements.
matters we are required to state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
Opinion To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do In our opinion the Summary Financial not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Statement is consistent with the full annual other than the Company and the Companys financial statements, the Directors Report and members as a body, for our work, for this the Directors Remuneration Report of Bunzl plc statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
for the year ended 31 December 2007 and complies with the applicable requirements Respective responsibilities of directors of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and auditors and the regulations made thereunder.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial KPMG Audit Plc Statement in accordance with applicable Chartered Accountants United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to Registered Auditor report to you our opinion on the consistency London of the Summary Financial Statement within 25 February 2008 the Annual Review and Summary Financial The auditors have issued an unqualified report Statement with the full annual financial on the full financial statements containing no statements, Directors Report, the Directors statement under Sections 237 2 or 237 3 Remuneration Report and its compliance of the Companies Act 1985. with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
