6891 Accounts 2006-07 1 6 07 17:34 Page 74 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT T0 THE MEMBERS OF BURBERRY GROUP PLC The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records We have audited the Group financial statements of Burberry Group We read other information contained in the Annual Report and the Report on Directors Remuneration and related matters and the that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Group and the parent Company financial statements in accordance position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to Income Statement, Group Statement of Recognised Income and statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans with applicable law and regulations.
ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Expense, Group Balance Sheet, Group Cash Flow Statement, and Letter, Chief Executives Letter, Financial Highlights, Business and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been Financial Review, Risks, the Directors Report, the unaudited part Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements parent Company financial statements and the Report on Directors prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of the Report on Directors Remuneration and related matters, for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared Remuneration and related matters comply with the Companies Act the Corporate Governance Statement and the Corporate Social the Group financial statements in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent Company financial 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Responsibility Statement.
We consider the implications for our Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European statements of Burberry Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Union, and the parent Company financial statements and the Report and on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration and the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
on Directors Remuneration and related matters in accordance with related matters that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the from legislation in other jurisdictions.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Directors Responsibilities.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group consistently.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied prudent.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the and adequately disclosed.
state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, information and explanations which we considered necessary Company financial statements that applicable United Kingdom in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material material departures disclosed and explained in the financial into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group that the Group will continue in business, in which case there Opinion financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
In our opinion: with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in requirements in preparing the financial statements.
in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit that specific information presented in the Business and Financial and cash flows for the year then ended.
Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in of the Directors Report.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the Group financial statements.
information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects London the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the 23 May 2007 Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
74 75 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
