THE WORLDS CAPITAL MARKET ANNUAL REPORT 2007 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE 45 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP PLC We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the part of the Remuneration Report and the Directors Report.
We consider financial statements of London Stock Exchange Group plc for the year the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes.
These financial statements have Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that other jurisdictions.
is described as having been audited.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to accordance with applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made by the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether our prior consent in writing.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part Report to be audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the OPINION group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report In our opinion: to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors The group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the given in the Directors Report includes the speci c information that is groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its pro t and cash ows cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its cash transactions is not disclosed.
ows for the year then ended: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the The financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration companys compliance with the nine provisions of the FRC Combined Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Code 2003 speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other  LLP information comprises only Group at a Glance, the Chairmans Statement, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Chief Executives Review, Markets & Trends, the Business Review, the London Financial Review, Corporate Responsibility, Principal Risks and 16 May 2007 Uncertainties, the Corporate Governance Report, the unaudited
