PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of PartyGaming Plc We have audited the Group and Company financial We review whether the corporate governance statements the financial statements of PartyGaming statements set out in the Directors Report reflect the Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not Parent Company Cashflow Statements, the Group and required to consider whether the Boards statements Parent Company Statement of Recognised Income on internal control cover all risks and controls, or and Expense and the related notes 1 to 32 to the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups financial statements.
These financial statements have corporate governance procedures or its risk and been prepared under the accounting policies set out control procedures.
We have also audited the information in the We read the other information contained in the Annual Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Report and consider whether it is consistent with the having been audited.
This other information Financial comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part statements Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans 128 The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Statement, the Chief Executives Business Review and the Review of 2007.
We consider the implications for Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Our report has been prepared pursuant to the terms and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited of our engagement letter and for no other purpose.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such requirements and International Standards on Auditing a person is a person entitled to rely upon this report UK and Ireland.
PartyGaming Plc has complied by virtue of the terms of our engagement letter or with the requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept and Schedule 7A of the UK Companies Act 1985 in responsibility for this report to any other person or for preparing its Annual Report, as if it was incorporated any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim in the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have agreed any and all such liability.
that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report will be those as set out below.
Basis of audit opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the W e conducted our audit in accordance with financial statements give a true and fair view and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland whether the financial statements have been properly issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Companies Act 1930, and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment Report to be audited has been properly prepared in of the significant estimates and judgments made accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK Companies by the Directors in the preparation of the financial Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion, statements, and of whether the accounting policies the information disclosed in the Directors Report is are appropriate to the Groups and Companys consistent with the financial statements, if the Company circumstances, consistently applied and has not kept proper accounting records, if we have adequately disclosed.
not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 We planned and performed our audit so as to Emphasis of matter Regulatory issues obtain all the information and explanations which In forming our opinion, which is not qualified, we have we considered necessary in order to provide us with considered the adequacy of, and draw attention to, sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance the disclosures made in note 23 to the financial that the financial statements and the part of the statements concerning the residual risk of adverse Remuneration Report to be audited are free from action arising from the Group having had customers in material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or the US prior to the enactment of the Unlawful Internet other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Gambling Enforcement Act.
Note 23 includes a evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation statement that the Group has not been able to of information in the financial statements and the part quantify any potential impact of the regulatory of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
uncertainty on the financial statements for the year Opinion ended 31 December 2007.
Financial In our opinion: BDO Stoy Hayward LLP statements the financial statements give a true and fair view, in 129 Chartered Accountants accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European 55 Baker Street Union, of the state of the Groups and the Companys London W1U 7EU affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 5 March 2008 the financial statements have been properly BDO Orion Limited prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Registered Auditors Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the PO Box 575 Gibraltar Companies Act 1930: Montagu Pavilion 810 Queensway the part of the Remuneration Report described as Gibraltar having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A of the UK Companies 5 March 2008 Act 1985: and The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
