The Merchants Trust PLC Independent Auditors Report We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Independent Auditors Report to the Members consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
The of The Merchants Trust PLC other information comprises only the Key Facts, Performance We have audited the accounts of The Merchants Trust PLC for the Attribution Analysis, Chairmans Statement, Historical Record, year ended 31 January 2007 which comprise the Income Statement, Investment Managers Review, United Kingdom Listed Holdings, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Reconciliation of Distribution of Total Assets, Performance Graphs, Financial Risk Movements in Shareholders Funds and the related notes.
These Management, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance accounts have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Respective responsibilities of directors and information.
auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and Basis of audit opinion the accounts in accordance with applicable law and United We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary in as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true the presentation of information in the accounts and the part of the and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Opinion report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the In our opinion: Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the state of the companys affairs as at 31 January 2007 and of information and explanations we require for our audit, or if its net return and cash ows for the year then ended: information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration other transactions is not disclosed.
Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the with the accounts.
Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We  LLP are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on London the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
