Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial regarding directors remuneration and other transactions statements the financial statements of Merrill Lynch are not disclosed.
World Mining Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2007, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Group reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Group and of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Company Balance Sheets, Group and Company Cash Flow Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Statements, and the related notes 1 to 20.
These financial report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether statements have been prepared under the accounting the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We read other information contained in the Annual Report body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might financial statements.
The other information comprises only state to the Companys members those matters we are the Performance Record, Chairmans Statement, Investment required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Managers Report, Ten Largest Investments, Investments, other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Portfolio Analysis, Directors, Directors Report, the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities, audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders, Base Costs, Management & Administration, Shareholder Information, Notice of Annual Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor General Meeting and Glossary.
We consider the implications The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual for our report if we become aware of any apparent Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial misstatements or material inconsistencies with the statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs any other information.
as adopted by the European Union, are set out in the report on Corporate Governance & Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the We conducted our audit in accordance with International part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an statements give a true and fair view and whether the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements financial statements and the part of the Directors made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly statements, and of whether the accounting policies are prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, regards the Group financial information, Article 4 of the IAS consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the financial statements.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to In addition we also report to you if, in our opinion, the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited not received all the information and explanations we are free from material misstatement, whether caused by require for our audit, or if information specified by law fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we 32 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 14 February 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 33
