INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the shareholders of The Monks Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements In addition we report to you if, in our We planned and performed our audit of The Monks Investment Trust PLC for opinion, the Company has not kept proper so as to obtain all the information and the year ended 30 April 2007 which accounting records, if we have not received explanations which we considered comprise the Income Statement, the Balance all the information and explanations we necessary in order to provide us with Sheet, the Reconciliation of Movements require for our audit, or if information suf cient evidence to give reasonable in Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow speci ed by law regarding directors assurance that the financial statements and Statement and the related notes 1 to 21. remuneration and other transactions is not the part of the Directors Remuneration These financial statements have been disclosed.
Report to be audited are free from material prepared under the accounting policies misstatement, whether caused by fraud We review whether the corporate set out therein.
We have also audited the or other irregularity or error.
In forming governance statement re ects the information in the Directors Remuneration our opinion we also evaluated the overall Companys compliance with the nine Report that is described as having been adequacy of the presentation of information provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined audited.
in the financial statements and the part of Code speci ed for our review by the Listing the Directors Remuneration Report to be Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Respective responsibilities of audited.
and we report if it does not.
We are not Directors and Auditors required to consider whether the Boards Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing statements on internal control cover all risks the Annual Report, the Directors In our opinion: and controls, or to form an opinion on the Remuneration Report and the financial effectiveness of the Companys corporate the financial statements give a true statements in accordance with applicable governance procedures or its risk and and fair view, in accordance with law and United Kingdom Accounting control procedures.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Standards United Kingdom Generally Accounting Practice, of the state of the We read other information contained in Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in Companys affairs as at 30 April 2007 the Annual Report and consider whether the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
and of its net return and cash ows for it is consistent with the audited financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial the year then ended: statements.
The other information comprises statements and the part of the Directors only the Directors Report, the unaudited the financial statements and the part of Remuneration Report to be audited in part of the Directors Remuneration the Directors Remuneration Report to be accordance with relevant legal and Report, the Chairmans Statement and the audited have been properly prepared regulatory requirements and International Managers Portfolio Review.
We consider in accordance with the Companies Act Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the implications for our report if we become 1985: and This report, including the opinion, has been aware of any apparent misstatements or the information given in the Directors prepared for and only for the Companys material inconsistencies with the financial members as a body in accordance with Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not statements.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 extend to any other information.
We do not,  LLP in giving this opinion, accept or assume Basis of audit opinion Chartered Accountants and responsibility for any other purpose or to Registered Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance any other person to whom this report is with International Standards on Auditing UK Edinburgh shown or into whose hands it may come 13 June 2007 and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices save where expressly agreed by our prior Board.
An audit includes examination, on consent in writing.
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the We report to you our opinion as to whether amounts and disclosures in the financial the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the part of the Directors view and whether the financial statements Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also and the part of the Directors Remuneration includes an assessment of the signi cant Report to be audited have been properly estimates and judgments made by the prepared in accordance with the Directors in the preparation of the financial Companies Act 1985.
We also report to statements, and of whether the accounting you whether in our opinion the information policies are appropriate to the Companys given in the Directors Report is consistent circumstances, consistently applied and with the financial statements.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25
