Independent Auditors Report to the members of Murray Income Trust PLC We have audited the Financial Statements of Murray Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the Income Trust PLC for the year ended 30 June 2007 which Corporate Summary, Your Board, Highlights, Historic comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Financial Record, Chairmans Statement, Summary of Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Investment Changes during the Year, Summary of Net Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 16.
These Assets, Distribution of Investments, Sector Comparison Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of with Benchmark, Investment Managers Review, Twenty the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Largest Investments, Portfolio of Investments, Directors audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report, unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, Notice of Meeting, Information about the Manager, Shareholder This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Information, Marketing Strategy, Other Ways to Invest in body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Murray Income Trust PLC, Glossary of Terms and Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Definitions and Corporate Information.
We consider the might state to the Companys members those matters we implications for our report if we become aware of any are required to state to them in an auditors report and for apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other extend to any other information.
than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Basis of Audit Opinion have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable United Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements and consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the requirements, and International Standards on Auditing UK information and explanations which we considered and Ireland.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Statements give a true and fair view, the Financial audited are free from material misstatement, whether Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Report to be audited have been properly prepared in our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether the presentation of information in the Financial Statements information given in the Directors Report is consistent and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be with the Financial Statements.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, if the Company Opinion has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not In our opinion: received all the information and explanations we require the Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted directors remuneration and other transactions is not Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys disclosed.
affairs as at 30 June 2007 and of its net return for the year then ended: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine Remuneration Report to be audited have been provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review properly prepared in accordance with the Companies by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and Act 1985: and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider the information given in the Directors Report is whether the Boards statements on internal control cover consistent with the Financial Statements.
all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited 27 September 2007 Edinburgh 40 Murray Income Trust PLC
