Independent Auditors Report to the Members of y International Trust PLC Murra risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of We have audited the financial statements of Murray the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk International Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December and control procedures.
2007 which comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash We read other information contained in the Annual Report Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 18.
These and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements have been prepared under the financial statements.
This other information comprises the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Corporate Summary, Chairman's Statement, Manager's the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Review, Results, Performance, Investment Portfolio - Twenty described as having been audited.
Largest Investments, Investment Portfolio - Other Investments, Summary of Investment Changes During the This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a Year, Summary of Net Assets, Attribution Analysis, body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Distribution of Investments, Distribution of Equity 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Investments, Information about the Manager, The state to the Company's members those matters we are Investment Process, Your Board of Directors, Directors' required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, unaudited part other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do of the Directors' Remuneration Report, Marketing Strategy, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC, Glossary of Company and the Company's members as a body, for our Terms and Definitions, Corporate Information, Your audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have Company's History and Shareholder Information.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual extend to any other information.
Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Basis of Audit Opinion law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally We conducted our audit in accordance with International Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the of Directors Responsibilities.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements includes an assessment of the significant estimates and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, statements give a true and fair view and whether the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We information and explanations which we considered necessary also report to you whether the information given in the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also received all the information and explanations we require for evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of our audit, or if information specified by law regarding information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration and other transactions is not Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Opinion reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions In our opinion: of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted report if it does not.
We are not required to consider Accounting Practice, of the state of the Company's affairs whether the boards statements on internal control cover all Murray International Trust PLC 35 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of y International Trust PLC continued Murra as at 31 December 2007 and of its net return for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Edinburgh 6 March 2008 36 Murray International Trust PLC
