INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDER OF NORTHERN ROCK PLC We have audited the Group and Parent cross referred from the Business Review OPINION Company financial statements the financial section of the Directors Report.
In our opinion: statements of Northern Rock plc for the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Group financial statements give a true year ended 31 December 2007 which the Company has not kept proper accounting and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as comprise the Consolidated Income records, if we have not received all the adopted by the European Union, of the Statement, the Consolidated and Parent information and explanations we require for state of the Groups affairs as at 31 Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated our audit, or if information specified by law December 2007 and of its loss and cash and Parent Company Statements of regarding Directors remuneration and other flows for the year then ended: Recognised Income and Expense, the Group transactions is not disclosed.
the Parent Company financial statements and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements We read other information contained in the give a true and fair view, in accordance and the related notes.
These financial Annual Report and consider whether it is with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements have been prepared under the consistent with the audited financial Union as applied in accordance with the accounting policies set out therein.
The other information comprises provisions of the Companies Act 1985, also audited the information in the Directors only the Executive Chairmans Statement, the of the state of the Parent Companys Remuneration Report that is described as Corporate Governance statement, the affairs as at 31 December 2007 and cash having been audited.
unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration flows for the year then ended: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF Report, the Operating and Financial Review the financial statements and the part of DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and the Directors Report.
We consider the the Directors Remuneration Report to be The Directors responsibilities for preparing implications for our report if we become audited have been properly prepared in the Annual Report, the Directors aware of any apparent misstatements or accordance with the Companies Act Remuneration Report and the financial material inconsistencies with the financial 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend statements, Article 4 of the IAS and International Financial Reporting to any other information.
Regulation: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION the information given in the Directors European Union are set out in the Statement We conducted our audit in accordance with Report is consistent with the financial of Directors Responsibilities.
International Standards on Auditing UK and statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices statements and the part of the Directors EMPHASIS OF MATTER GOING CONCERN Board.
An audit includes examination, on a Remuneration Report to be audited in In forming our opinion on the financial test basis, of evidence relevant to the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory statements, which is not qualified, we have amounts and disclosures in the financial requirements and International Standards on considered the adequacy of disclosure made in statements and the part of the Directors Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, note 1 to the financial statements concerning Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also including the opinion, has been prepared for the Companys ability to continue as a going includes an assessment of the significant and only for the Companys shareholder in concern.
As described in note 1 to the financial estimates and judgments made by the accordance with Section 235 of the statements, the Company is reliant upon the Directors in the preparation of the financial Companies Act 1985 and for no other continuation of on demand facilities provided statements, and of whether the accounting purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, by the Bank of England which are subject to policies are appropriate to the Groups and accept or assume responsibility for any other appropriate clearance being obtained from the Companys circumstances, consistently purpose or to any other person to whom this European Commission for State aid for the applied and adequately disclosed.
report is shown or into whose hands it may Company and any other constraints imposed We planned and performed our audit so as to come save where expressly agreed by our by European law.
These outstanding clearances obtain all the information and explanations prior consent in writing.
indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which we considered necessary in order to which may cast significant doubt about the We report to you our opinion as to whether provide us with sufficient evidence to give Companys ability to continue as a going the financial statements give a true and fair reasonable assurance that the financial concern.
The financial statements do not view and whether the financial statements and statements and the part of the Directors include adjustments that would result if the the part of the Directors Remuneration Remuneration Report to be audited are free Company was unable to continue as a going Report to be audited have been properly from material misstatement, whether caused concern.
prepared in accordance with the Companies by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial  LLP forming our opinion we also evaluated the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Chartered Accountants and overall adequacy of the presentation of We also report to you whether in our opinion Registered Auditors information in the financial statements.
the information given in the Directors Report Newcastle upon Tyne is consistent with the financial statements.
29 March 2008 The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is 43
