Independent auditors report To the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC We have audited the group and individual company In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the financial statements the financial statements of The Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Paragon Group of Companies PLC for the year ended have not received all the information and explanations we 30 September 2007 which comprise the consolidated require for our audit, or if information specified by law income statement, the consolidated and individual regarding directors remuneration and other transactions company balance sheets, the consolidated and individual is not disclosed.
company cash flow statements, the consolidated and We review whether the corporate governance statement individual company statements of recognised income and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine expenditure the consolidated and individual company provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for reconciliations of movements in equity and the related our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services notes 1 to 58.
These financial statements have been Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
to consider whether the Boards statements on internal We have also audited the information in the part of control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on directors remuneration report to be audited.
the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance This report is made solely to the Companys members, as procedures or its risk and control procedures.
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies We read the other information contained in the annual Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we report and consider whether it is consistent with the might state to the Companys members those matters we audited financial statements.
The other information are required to state to them in an auditors report and for comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other Chairmans Statement and the Chief Executives Review.
than the Company and the Companys members as a We consider the implications for our report if we body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions become aware of any apparent misstatements or we have formed.
material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of directors Our responsibilities do not extend to any further and auditors information outside the annual report.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, in respect of the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
30 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Basis of audit opinion Separate opinion in relation to IFRS We conducted our audit in accordance with International As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, to comply with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and Union, has also complied with IFRSs as issued by the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the International Accounting Standards Board.
directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair includes an assessment of the significant estimates view in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups and judgements made by the directors in the affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of its profit for the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether year then ended.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups Emphasis of matter - going concern and companys circumstances, consistently applied and Without qualifying our opinion in this regard, we draw adequately disclosed.
attention to the disclosures made in note 2 of the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all statements concerning the Group's ability to continue as a the information and explanations which we considered going concern.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to The Groups 280 million facility expires on give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 27 February 2008 and if not renewed will be due for and the part of the directors remuneration report to be payment on this date.
In order to ensure that the facility audited are free from material misstatement, whether can be repaid when it falls due, the Group has entered into caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming a standby underwriting agreement for a rights issue of up our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy to 280 million, valid until 27 February 2008.
This of the presentation of information in the financial agreement is subject to the following conditions which statements and the part of the directors remuneration result in material uncertainty: report to be audited.
shareholder approval to enter into the rights issue: Opinion the absence of any material adverse change affecting In our opinion: the Group: and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, the absence of any force majeure event.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the Having taken into account this material uncertainty, the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as directors consider it is appropriate to prepare the financial at 30 September 2007 and of its profit for the year statements on the going concern basis.
In the then ended: circumstances of the Group, these conditions, along with the individual Company financial statements give a true other matters noted in note 2, indicate the existence of a and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt on use in the European Union as applied in accordance with the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern.
the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the The financial statements do not include the adjustments state of the individual companys affairs as at that would result if the Group were unable to continue as a 30 September 2007: and going concern as it is not practicable do so but would the financial statements and the part of the Directors include writing down the carrying value of assets, Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly including deferred tax assets to their recoverable amount prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and providing for any further liabilities that might arise.
and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the directors report is Deloitte & Touche LLP consistent with the financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham, United Kingdom 22 November 2007 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 31
