Directors responsibilities Financial Auditors report statements Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of Prudential plc for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we consolidated Group income statement, the consolidated Group become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated Group inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our cash flow statement, the consolidated Group statement of responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
change in shareholders equity and the related notes on pages 127 to 299.
These financial statements have been prepared Basis of audit opinion under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also We conducted our audit in accordance with International audited the information in the directors remuneration report Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing on pages 102 to 123 that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the state to the Companys members those matters we are required significant estimates and judgements made by the directors to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequately disclosed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and for irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated preparing the parent company financial statements and the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United report to be audited.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 300.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the In our opinion: part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and of its profit for the year then ended: statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the Group financial statements have been properly to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: statements, Article 4 of the International Auditing Standards the parent company financial statements give a true and Regulation IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally our opinion the information given in the directors report is Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper the parent company financial statements and the part accounting records, if we have not received all the information of the directors remuneration report to be audited have and explanations we require for our audit, or if information been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other Act 1985: and transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the directors report is consistent We review whether the corporate governance statement with the financial statements.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and KPMG Audit Plc controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Chartered Accountants Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Registered Auditor control procedures.
