118 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Royal & Sun Basis of audit opinion Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on which comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, statement of changes Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit in equity of the Parent Company, Parent Company cashflow statement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the related notes 1 to 10.
These Parent Company financial statements and disclosures in the Parent Company financial statements.
It also includes have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Royal and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
2007 and on the information in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a body, us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Parent Companys whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, information in the Parent Company financial statements.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Parent Company and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our Opinion audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 European Union are set out in the directors report.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements The information given in the directors report is consistent with the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Parent Company financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Deloitte & Touche LLP Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you London whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report 26 February 2008 is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the financial review, the Group CEOs business review, the regional business reviews and in the estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies that is cross referred from the business review section of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Parent Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
