Financial statements Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 57 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Royal & Sun Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups sheet, the consolidated cashflow statement, significant accounting policies, corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies, risk management and related notes 1 to 34.
These consolidated financial statements have We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the also audited the information in the remuneration report that is described audited consolidated financial statements.
We consider the implications as having been audited.
for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the statements of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc for the year Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the part of the for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and of whether the for the opinions we have formed.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information remuneration report and the consolidated financial statements in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited directors report.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in adequacy of the presentation of information in the consolidated financial accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and statements and the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view, whether the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to year then ended you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
The information in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the given in the directors report includes that specific information presented IAS Regulation in the Group CEOs business review, the regional business reviews and the The part of the remuneration report described as having been audited estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies that are cross has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act referred from the business review section of the directors report.
1985 and The information given in the directors report is consistent with the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the consolidated financial statements.
information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the London Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined 26 February 2008
