Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of We review whether the corporate governance statement Scotland Group plc the company and its subsidiaries reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of together the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the which comprise the accounting policies, the balance sheets as Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report at 31 December 2007 and 2006, the consolidated income if it does not.
statements, the cash flow statements, the statements of recognised income and expense for each of the three years in The Listing Rules do not require us to consider whether the the period ended 31 December 2007 and the related Notes 1 Board or managements statements on internal control cover all to 43.
These financial statements have been prepared under risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and the information in the part of the directors remuneration report control procedures.
that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a and Accounts 2007 as described in the contents section, body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited state to the companys members those matters we are financial statements.
We consider the implications for our required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside company and the companys members as a body, for our audit the Annual Report and Accounts 2007. work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the directors remuneration report and the financial statements Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Accounting Oversight Board United States.
An audit includes Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Union, are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant part of the directors remuneration report described as having estimates and judgements made by the directors in the been audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of Ireland.
the company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the statements and the part of the directors remuneration report information and explanations which we considered necessary described as having been audited have been properly in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and as reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the regards the Groups consolidated financial statements, Article part of the directors remuneration report described as having 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our been audited are free from material misstatement, whether opinion, the information given in the directors report is caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our consistent with the financial statements.
The information given opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the in the directors report includes that specific information presentation of information in the financial statements and the presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the part of the directors remuneration report described as having business review section of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
118 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial statements UK opinion We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the In our opinion: Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, 31 December 2007, based on the criteria established in of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
Management excluded from its assessment the the company financial statements give a true and fair view, internal control over financial reporting of ABN AMRO Holding in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European N. V. and its subsidiaries which was acquired on 17 October Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the 2007.
Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control companies Act 1985, of the state of affairs of the company over financial reporting in ABN AMRO Holding N. V. and its as at 31 December 2007: subsidiaries.
ABN AMRO Holdings N. V. represented 40.7% of the Groups total assets, a negligible proportion of the the financial statements and the part of the directors shareholders total equity, 7.7% of the Groups total income remuneration report described as having been audited and 0.2% of the Groups profit after tax as of and for the year have been properly prepared in accordance with the ended 31 December 2007.
Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and Our report dated 27 February 2008 which will be included in the Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended the information given in the directors report is consistent 31 December 2007 to be filed with the Securities and with the financial statements.
Exchange Commission, expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial Separate opinion in relation to IFRS reporting of the Group excluding ABN AMRO Holding N. V. and As explained in the accounting policies, the Group, in addition its subsidiaries.
to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Deloitte & Touche LLP In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as Edinburgh, United Kingdom at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the 27 February 2008 year then ended.
US opinion In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2007 and 2006 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2007, in conformity with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 119 Financial statements
