Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc 44 45 We have audited the Group and parent We review whether the corporate Opinion company financial statements the financial governance statement reflects the In our opinion: statements of Schroders plc for the year Companys compliance with the nine the Group financial statements give a true ended 31 December 2007, which comprise provisions of the 2006 Combined Code and fair view, in accordance with IFRS the Group income statement, the Group specified for our review by the Listing Rules as adopted by the European Union, and parent balance sheets, the Group and of the Financial Services Authority, and we of the state of the Groups affairs as parent cash flow statements, the Group and report if it does not.
We are not required to at 31 December 2007 and of its profit parent statements of recognised income consider whether the Boards statements and cash flows for the year then ended: and expense and the related notes.
These on internal control cover all risks and the parent company financial statements financial statements have been prepared controls, or form an opinion on the give a true and fair view, in accordance under the accounting policies set out therein.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate with IFRS as adopted by the European We have also audited the information in the governance procedures or its risk and Union, as applied in accordance with remuneration report that is described as control procedures.
the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, having been audited.
of the state of the parent companys affairs We read other information contained in as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit the Annual Report and consider whether Respective responsibilities of and cash flows for the year then ended: it is consistent with the audited financial Directors and auditors the financial statements and the part of statements.
The other information comprises The Directors responsibilities for preparing the remuneration report to be audited have the statement from the Chairman and the the Annual Report, the remuneration report been properly prepared in accordance with Chief Executive, the business review, the and the financial statements in accordance the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of unaudited part of the remuneration report with applicable law and International the IAS Regulation: and and the other information listed in the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the information given in the Directors contents.
We consider the implications adopted by the European Union are set report is consistent with the Group for our report if we become aware of any out in the Directors responsibility statement.
apparent misstatements or material Our responsibility is to audit the financial inconsistencies with the Group financial statements and the part of the remuneration statements.
Our responsibilities do not  LLP report to be audited in accordance with extend to any other information.
Chartered Accountants and relevant legal and regulatory requirements Registered Auditors and International Standards on Auditing Basis of audit opinion London UK and Ireland.
This report, including the We conducted our audit in accordance with 10 March 2008 opinion, has been prepared for and only International Standards on Auditing UK and for the Companys members as a body Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices in accordance with Section 235 of the Board.
An audit includes examination, on Companies Act 1985 and for no other a test basis, of evidence relevant to the purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, amounts and disclosures in the financial accept or assume responsibility for any statements.
It also includes an assessment other purpose or to any other person to of the significant estimates and judgments whom this report is shown or into whose made by the Directors in the preparation of hands it may come save where expressly the financial statements, and of whether the agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, We report to you our opinion as to whether consistently applied and adequately the financial statements give a true and fair disclosed.
view and whether the financial statements and the part of the remuneration report to We planned and performed our audit be audited have been properly prepared in so as to obtain all the information and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 explanations which we considered and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also necessary in order to provide us with report to you whether in our opinion the sufficient evidence to give reasonable information given in the Directors report assurance that the financial statements is consistent with the financial statements.
and the part of the remuneration report The information given in the Directors to be audited are free from material report includes that specific information misstatement, whether caused by fraud presented in the Annual Report that is or other irregularity or error.
In forming cross referred from the Directors report.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall We also report to you if, in our opinion, adequacy of the presentation of information we have not received all the information in the financial statements and the part of and explanations we require for our audit, the remuneration report to be audited.
or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
