211729 SJP R&A 2007 txt:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 16 3 08 11:15 Page 125 Independent Auditors Report to St. Jamess Place plc on the European Embedded Value Basis Supplementary Information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of St. Jamess Place plc on pages 126 to 136 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 together the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 129 to 132.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the group financial statements which are on pages 64 to 115.
This report is made solely to the company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on pages 45 and 46, the directors responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 129 to 132.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies applied in the preparation of the supplementary information are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the supplementary information.
Opinion In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2007 has been properly prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 129 to 132.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 25 February 2008 125 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2007
