Independent Auditors Report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC We have audited the Group Standard Chartered PLC and its We read other information contained in the Annual Report subsidiaries and Company Standard Chartered PLC financial and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements together referred to as the financial statements for statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Income Statement, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and do not extend to any other information.
Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, and Basis of audit opinion the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared We conducted our audit in accordance with International under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, that is described as having been audited.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in state to the Companys members those matters we are required the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for information and explanations which we considered necessary this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other in accordance with applicable law and International Financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 86. statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report profit for the year then ended: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Report of Directors includes information the financial statements and the part of the Directors presented in the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Executives Review and the Financial and Business Reviews that prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, are cross referenced from the Report of the Directors.
In addition as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS we report to you if the Company has not kept proper accounting Regulation: and records, if we have not received all the information and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified with the financial statements.
by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects KPMG Audit Plc the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 London FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Chartered Accountants of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
Registered Auditor We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements 26 February 2008 on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
