Independent Auditors Report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the Group and Company financial We read other information contained in the Annual statements the financial statements of Temple Bar Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Investment Trust PLC for the year ended audited financial statements.
The other information 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated comprises the Summary of results, Ten year record, Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Comparative dividend growth, Five year summary, Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Chairmans Statement, Twenty largest investments, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Asset allocation, Managers report, Portfolio of Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the investments, Report of the Directors, unaudited part of related notes 1 to 22.
These financial statements have the Report on Directors remuneration, Corporate been prepared under the accounting policies set out governance, Useful information for shareholders and therein.
We have also audited the information in the Notice of meeting.
We consider the implications for Directors Remuneration Report that is described as our report if we become aware of any apparent having been audited.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend This report is made solely to the Company's members, to any other information.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Basis of audit opinion undertaken so that we might state to the Company's We conducted our audit in accordance with members those matters we are required to state to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence or assume responsibility to anyone other than the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Company and the Company's members as a body, for statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of have formed.
the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the information and explanations which we considered European Union are set out in the Statement of necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Directors Responsibilities.
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Remuneration Report to be audited are free from and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or be audited in accordance with relevant legal and other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we regulatory requirements and International Standards also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation on Auditing UK and Ireland.
of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and Opinion whether the financial statements and the part of the In our opinion: Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Group financial statements give a true and fair been properly prepared in accordance with the view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs financial information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the We also report to you whether in our opinion the year then ended: information given in the report of the directors is the Company financial statements give a true and consistent with the financial statements.
fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December have not received all the information and explanations 2007: we require for our audit, or if information specified by the financial statements and the part of the law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions are not disclosed.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS We review whether the Corporate Governance Regulation: and Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for our the information given in the Report of the Directors review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services is consistent with the financial statements.
Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form Ernst & Young LLP an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups Registered Auditor corporate governance procedures or its risk and London control procedures.
12 February 2008 26 Temple Bar Investment Trust
