 TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2007 which comprises the principal accounting policies, the income statement, the balance sheet, the statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement, the principal accounting policies and notes 1 to 18.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report and the Portfolio Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review and the Managers Report and Portfolio Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
44 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2007 and its profit for the year then ended: the financial statement and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
As explained in Accounting Policies for the financial statements, the Company in addition to complying with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Grant Thornton UK LLP Registered Auditor Chartered Accountants London 14 August 2007 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 45
