Financial Statements 33 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in Independent Auditors Report to the members of The Carphone the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Warehouse Group PLC Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the We have audited the Group financial statements of The Carphone Warehouse Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report, the Business Review, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes Corporate Responsibility Statement and the Corporate Governance in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware Statement and the related notes 1 to 31.
These Group financial statements of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the individual Company financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied members as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the of Directors Responsibilities.
presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Opinion on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: and of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Remuneration Report the Group financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance described as having been audited have been properly prepared in with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group Regulation: and financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specic information presented in the Operational and Financial Performance the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information London specified by law regarding Directors Remuneration and other transactions 4 June 2007 is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
