Independent Auditors Report to the members of TR Property Investment Trust plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements the financial statements of TR Property Investment statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Trust plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Managers Report, the Equity, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets and the Twenty Largest Equity Investments, the Investment Properties as Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the at 31 March 2007, and the Corporate Governance Statement.
These financial statements have been We consider the implications for our report if we become aware prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Basis of audit opinion body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with International 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing state to the Companys members those matters we are required Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting information and explanations which we considered necessary in Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable preparing the Parent Company financial statements and the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Report to be audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with its profit for the year then ended: the Companies Act 1985, in addition, the Group financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements have been properly prepared in accordance with in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in the IAS Regulation: our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair consistent with the financial statements.
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Union, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 31 March 2007: the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been and other transactions is not disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 1985: and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the with the financial statements.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Ernst & Young LLP form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Registered Auditor governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London We read other information contained in the Annual Report and 7 June 2007 36 TR Property Investment Trust
