Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the group financial the information given in the Directors sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements of Tullett Prebon plc for the Report is consistent with the group assurance that the group financial year ended 31 December 2007 which financial statements.
statements and the part of the Directors comprise the Group Income Statement, Remuneration Report to be audited the Group Balance Sheet, the Group In addition we report to you if, in our are free from material misstatement, Cash Flow Statement, the Group opinion, we have not received all the whether caused by fraud or other Statement of Recognised Income and information and explanations we require irregularity or error.
In forming our Expense and the related notes 1 to 37. for our audit, or if information specified opinion we also evaluated the overall These group financial statements have by law regarding directors remuneration adequacy of the presentation of been prepared under the accounting and other transactions is not disclosed.
information in the group financial policies set out therein.
We have also statements and the part of the Directors audited the information in the We review whether the Corporate Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors Remuneration Report that is Governance Statement reflects the described as having been audited.
companys compliance with the nine Opinion provisions of the 2006 Combined Code In our opinion: We have reported separately on the specified for our review by the Listing the group financial statements give parent company financial statements Rules of the Financial Services Authority, a true and fair view, in accordance of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended and we report if it does not.
We are with IFRSs as adopted by the 31 December 2007. not required to consider whether the European Union, of the state of the boards statements on internal control groups affairs as at 31 December This report is made solely to the cover all risks and controls, or form an 2007 and of its profit for the year companys members, as a body, in opinion on the effectiveness of the then ended: accordance with section 235 of the groups corporate governance procedures the group financial statements have Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work or its risk and control procedures.
been properly prepared in accordance has been undertaken so that we might with the Companies Act 1985 and state to the companys members those We read the other information contained Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: matters we are required to state to in the Annual Report as described in the them in an auditors report and for no contents section and consider whether the part of the directors remuneration other purpose.
To the fullest extent it is consistent with the audited report described as having been permitted by law, we do not accept or group financial statements.
The other audited has been properly prepared assume responsibility to anyone other information comprises only the Directors in accordance with the Companies than the company and the companys Report, the Chairmans Statement, Act 1985: and members as a body, for our audit work, the unaudited part of the Directors the information given in the for this report, or for the opinions we Remuneration Report, the Business Directors Report is consistent with have formed.
Review and the Corporate Governance the group financial statements.
We consider the implications Respective responsibilities of directors for our report if we become aware Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs and auditors of any apparent misstatements or As explained in Note 2 a to the group The directors responsibilities for material inconsistencies with the group financial statements, the group in preparing the Annual Report, the financial statements.
Our responsibilities addition to complying with its legal Directors Remuneration Report and do not extend to any further obligation to comply with IFRSs as the group financial statements in information outside the Annual Report.
adopted by the European Union, has accordance with applicable law and also complied with the IFRSs as issued International Financial Reporting Basis of audit opinion by the International Accounting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We conducted our audit in accordance Standards Board.
European Union are set out in the with International Standards on Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the In our opinion the group financial Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statements give a true and fair view, Our responsibility is to audit the group includes examination, on a test basis, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state financial statements in accordance of evidence relevant to the amounts of the groups affairs as at 31 December with relevant legal and regulatory and disclosures in the group financial 2007 and of its profit for the year requirements and International statements and the part of the then ended.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment We report to you our opinion as to of the significant estimates and whether the group financial statements judgments made by the directors in give a true and fair view, whether the the preparation of the group financial Deloitte & Touche LLP group financial statements have been statements, and of whether the Chartered Accountants and properly prepared in accordance with accounting policies are appropriate to Registered Auditors the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 the groups circumstances, consistently London, England of the IAS Regulation and whether the applied and adequately disclosed.
11 March 2008 part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited has We planned and performed our audit been properly prepared in accordance so as to obtain all the information and with the Companies Act 1985.
We also explanations which we considered report to you whether in our opinion necessary in order to provide us with Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 29
