Independent Auditors Report to the members of Witan Investment Trust plc We have audited the group and parent company financial information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited statements the financial statements of Witan Investment part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise Statement and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent consider the implications for our report if we become aware of company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent company any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the cash ow statements, the consolidated and parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any statements of changes in shareholders equity and the related further information outside the Annual Report.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Basis of audit opinion audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report We conducted our audit in accordance with International that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the companys members those matters we are required to state to significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys responsibility to anyone other than the company and the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from in accordance with applicable law and International Financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Report to be audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report its profit for the year then ended: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the parent company financial statements give a true and fair the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The affairs as at 31 December 2007: information given in the Directors Report includes that specic the financial statements and the part of the Directors information presented in the Business Review on pages 7 to 17.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Regulation: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the information given in the Directors Report is consistent information specified by law regarding directors remuneration with the financial statements.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of London the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We 6 March 2008 are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion Note to those who access this document by electronic means on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any procedures or its risk and control procedures.
changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, absolute assurance in this area.
as described in the Contents section, and consider whether it is Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
