Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Centrica plc Independent Auditors report to the members of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Centrica plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc Statement, the Directors Report, the Gas and Liquids Reserves, for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Five Year Record and Shareholder Information.
We consider the Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group and Expense and the related notes.
These Group Financial Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Statements have been prepared under the accounting policies other information.
We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, is described as having been audited.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, and of the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, Financial Statements.
in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Opinion shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared We also report to you whether, in our opinion the information in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report the IAS Regulation: and Business Review and the Directors Report Governance is the information given in the Directors Report is consistent consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
with the Group Financial Statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the London Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined 21 February 2008 Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
