FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 178 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASTRAZENECA PLC We have audited the Company Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit so as Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year the Company Financial Statements give to obtain all the information and explanations ended 31 December 2007 which comprise a true and fair view and whether the Company which we considered necessary in order to the Balance Sheet and the related notes on Financial Statements and the part of the provide us with sufficient evidence to give pages 179 to 183.
These Company Financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited reasonable assurance that the Company Statements have been prepared under the have been properly prepared in accordance Financial Statements and the part of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited also audited the information in the Directors to you whether in our opinion the information are free from material misstatement, whether Remuneration Report that is described as given in the Directors Report is consistent caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
with the Company Financial Statements.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We have reported separately on the Group In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Company Financial Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the Company has not kept proper accounting Statements and the part of the Directors the year ended 31 December 2007. records, if we have not received all the Remuneration Report to be audited.
information and explanations we require for This report is made solely to the Companys our audit, or if information specified by law OPINION members, as a body, in accordance with regarding Directors remuneration and other In our opinion: section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. transactions is not disclosed.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that The Company Financial Statements give we might state to the Companys members We read the other information contained in the a true and fair view, in accordance with those matters we are required to state to Annual Report and Form 20-F Information UK Generally Accepted Accounting them in an auditors report and for no other and consider whether it is consistent with Practice, of the state of the Companys purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the audited Company Financial Statements.
affairs as at 31 December 2007. law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We consider the implications for our report to anyone other than the Company and the if we become aware of any apparent The Company Financial Statements and Companys members as a body, for our misstatements or material inconsistencies the part of the Directors Remuneration audit work, for this report, or for the opinions with the Company Financial Statements.
Report to be audited have been properly we have formed.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any prepared in accordance with the other information.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION The information given in the Directors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the We conducted our audit in accordance with Report is consistent with the Company Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, International Standards on Auditing UK and Financial Statements.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Company Financial Statements in accordance An audit includes examination, on a test KPMG Audit Plc with applicable law and UK Accounting basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Chartered Accountants Standards UK Generally Accepted and disclosures in the Company Financial Registered Auditor Accounting Practice are set out in the Statements and the part of the Directors 8 Salisbury Square Statement of Directors Responsibilities on Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also London EC4Y 8BB page 116. includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the 31 January 2008 Our responsibility is to audit the Company Directors in the preparation of the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Financial Statements, and of whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited accounting policies are appropriate to the in accordance with relevant legal and Companys circumstances, consistently regulatory requirements and International applied and adequately disclosed.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
