Filename: 51384 07.3d Time: 15:18:26 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1166989669 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors UNITED KINGDOM OPINION Independent auditors report to the members of BT We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group plc Form 20-F and consider whether it is consistent with the We have audited the group financial statements of BT Group plc audited group financial statements.
The other information for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the group comprises only BT at a glance, the Chairmans message, the income statement, the group balance sheet, the group cash ow Chief Executives statement and the Report of the Directors.
We statement, the group statement of recognised income and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of expense, accounting policies and the related notes.
These group any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements are set out on pages 78 to 142 and 148. group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to These group financial statements have been prepared under the any other information.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with International and on the information in the Report on directors remuneration Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing that is described as having been audited.
This separate report is Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, set out on page 144. of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report preparation of the group financial statements, and of whether and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the directors responsibilities.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and assurance that the group financial statements are free from International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated for the companys members as a body in accordance with the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other group financial statements.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Opinion whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come In our opinion: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the group r the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of group financial statements have been properly prepared in the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion r the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the with the group financial statements.
IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not r the information given in the Report of the Directors is received all the information and explanations we require for our consistent with the group financial statements.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if  LLP it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or London, United Kingdom form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate 16 May 2007 governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 75 Financial statements Filename: 51384 07.3d Time: 15:18:26 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -176924243 Financial Statements Report of the independent auditors UNITED STATES OPINION Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull criteria, is fairly stated, Firm to the Board of Directors and Shareholders of BT in all material respects, based on those criteria.
Furthermore, in Group plc our opinion, the company maintained, in all material respects, We have completed an integrated audit of BT Group plcs effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 31 March 2007 consolidated financial statements and of its 2007, based on criteria established in the Turnbull criteria.
The internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2007 companys management is responsible for maintaining effective and audits of its 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of consolidated financial statements in accordance with the the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board responsibility is to express opinions on managements assessment United States.
Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented and on the effectiveness of the companys internal control over below.
financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit of internal control over financial Consolidated financial statements reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public In our opinion, the accompanying group income statements and Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those the related group balance sheets, group statements of cash standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain ows and group statements of recognised income and expense reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BT over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Group plc and its subsidiaries at 31 March 2007 and 2006, and An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes the results of their operations and their cash ows for each of obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial the three years in the period ended 31 March 2007, in reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
These financial control, and performing such other procedures as we consider statements are the responsibility of the companys management.
We believe that our audit Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of A companys internal control over financial reporting is a these financial statements in accordance with the standards of process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to statements for external purposes in accordance with generally obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit of over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial detail, accurately and fairly reect the transactions and statements, assessing the accounting principles used and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit overall financial statements presentation.
We believe that our preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and As discussed in the accounting policies section in the financial expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance statements, the group adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 April with authorizations of management and directors of the 2005 prospectively.
company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding IFRSs as adopted by the European Union vary in certain prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, significant respects from accounting principles generally or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material accepted in the United States of America.
Information relating effect on the financial statements.
to the nature and effect of such differences, as restated, is Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over presented in the United States Generally Accepted Accounting financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Principles note to the consolidated financial statements note 35.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become Internal control over financial reporting inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree Also, in our opinion, managements assessment, included in of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Managements Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Internal Control as set out in the first three paragraphs of Internal Control over financial reporting in Report of the Directors, Corporate governance of the Form 20-F, that the group maintained  LLP effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 2007 based on criteria established in Internal Control Revised London, United Kingdom Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code as issued by the 16 May 2007 76 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
