Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Chemring Group PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2007 We have audited the Group financial statements of the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2007 Directors Report includes that specific information which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the presented in the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director Expense, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated that is cross referred from the review of the year and results Cash Flow Statement, the Notes to the Cash Flow section of the Directors Report.
Statement and the related Notes 1 to 38.
These Group In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not financial statements have been prepared under the received all the information and explanations we require for accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that directors remuneration and other transactions is not is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the individual company We review whether the Statement on Corporate financial statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year Governance reflects the Companys compliance with the ended 31 October 2007. nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Authority, and we report if it does not.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we to consider whether the Boards statement on internal might state to the Companys members those matters we control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, procedures or its risk and control procedures.
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other We read the other information contained in the annual than the Company and the Companys members as a body, report as described in the contents section including the for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and have formed.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual further information outside the annual report.
report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement We conducted our audit in accordance with International of Directors Responsibilities in the Directors Report.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Group financial statements have been properly prepared in consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration information given in the Directors Report is consistent with CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 45 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Chemring Group PLC CONTINUED Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
OPINION In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 October 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Southampton, United Kingdom 22 January 2008 46 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
