Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Brixton plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Brixton plc for the We read other information contained in the Annual Report and year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Income consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, Expense and the related notes 1 to 33.
These Group financial the Financial Review, and the Directors Report.
We consider the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent out therein.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other We have reported separately on the parent company financial information.
statements of Brixton plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is Basis of audit opinion described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the profit for the year then ended: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS The information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific Regulation: and information presented in the Operating Review and the Financial the information given in the Director s' Report is consistent with the Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received London all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and 7 March 2008 other transactions is not disclosed.
Notes: We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brixton plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
required to consider whether the boards statements on internal 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
