Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Brixton plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Brixton Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Balance Sheet and the related notes A to O.
These parent Company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant We have reported separately on the group financial statements of estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of Brixton plc for the year ended 31 December 2007. the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the members those matters we are required to state to them in an information and explanations which we considered necessary in auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited are free body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the parent Company Opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted In our opinion: Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, Responsibilities.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited 31 December 2007: in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the parent Company financial statements and the part of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent and Company financial statements and the part of the Report on the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared parent Company financial statements.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in London the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in 7 March 2008 the Operating Review and the Financial Review that is cross-referred Notes: from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brixton plc web site is the responsibility of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, and the unaudited part of the Report on Directors Remuneration.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
