Independent auditors report to the members of Capital & Regional plc Group We have audited the Group financial statements of Capital & We consider the implications for our report if we become aware Regional plc for the year ended 30 December 2007 which comprise of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated to any further information outside the annual report.
statement of recognised income and expense, the reconciliation of movement in equity shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to Basis of audit opinion 38.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under We conducted our audit in accordance with International the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing information in the directors remuneration report that is described Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, as having been audited.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration We have reported separately on the parent company financial report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the statements of Capital & Regional plc for the year ended significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the 30 December 2007. preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companys members those matters we are required to state to information and explanations which we considered necessary them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements and the part of the directors remuneration report The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the to be audited.
directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Opinion Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union In our opinion: are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 December 2007 International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
and of its loss for the year then ended.
The Group financial statements have been properly prepared We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial of the IAS Regulation.
statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the The part of the directors remuneration report described as Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance whether the part of the directors remuneration report described with the Companies Act 1985. as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance The information given in the directors report is consistent with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our with the Group financial statements.
opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 as at 30 December 2007 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are Deloitte & Touche LLP not required to consider whether the Boards statements on Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on London, United Kingdom the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures 10 April 2008 or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
