I ndependent auditors report Independent auditors report to the shareholders Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements of Derwent London plc of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
No We have audited the group and parent company financial person is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person statements the financial statements of Derwent London is a person entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of and plc for the year ended 31st December 2007 which comprise for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 or has been the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
parent company balance sheets, the consolidated and Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this parent company cash flow statements, the consolidated report to any other person or for any other purpose and we and parent company statements of recognised income and hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Basis of audit opinion therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the the directors remuneration report and the financial statements directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes in accordance with applicable law and International Financial an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European made by the directors in the preparation of the financial Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial and the part of the directors remuneration report to be statements and the part of the directors remuneration report audited are free from material misstatement, whether to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the group financial statements have been properly prepared in presentation of information in the financial statements and accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial Opinion statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, In our opinion: the company has not kept proper accounting records, if the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in we have not received all the information and explanations accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, we require for our audit, or if information specified by law of the state of the groups affairs as at 31st December 2007 regarding directors remuneration and other transactions and of its profit for the year then ended: is not disclosed.
the group financial statements have been properly We review whether the corporate governance statement prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the parent company financial statements give a true the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the European Union as applied in accordance with the the boards statements on internal control cover all risks provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2007: groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have We read other information contained in the annual report been properly prepared in accordance with the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Companies Act 1985: and financial statements.
This other information comprises the information given in the directors report is consistent only the directors report, the unaudited part of the with the financial statements.
directors remuneration report, the chairmans statement, the business review and the corporate governance BDO Stoy Hayward LLP statement.
We consider the implications for our report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or London material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
18th March 2008 Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
