Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Cobham statement, the Chief Executives review, the statement on plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise strategy, the Business review, the Financial review, the the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance statement on corporate responsibility, the Directors report, sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated the Corporate governance statement and the unaudited part statement of recognised income and expense, the related of the Directors remuneration report.
We consider the notes and the accounting policies.
These Group financial implications for our report if we become aware of any statements have been prepared under the accounting policies apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December Basis of audit opinion 2007 and on the information in the Directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of and the Group financial statements in accordance with the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups statement of Directors responsibilities.
circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements information and explanations which we considered necessary and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and assurance that the Group financial statements are free from only for the Companys members as a body in accordance material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Group financial statements.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, financial statements have been properly prepared in of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion The Group financial statements have been properly the information given in the Directors report is consistent prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 with the Group financial statements.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors report is consistent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not with the Group financial statements.
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate governance statement Southampton reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions 14 March 2008 of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Notes: report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any control procedures.
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group and dissemination of financial statements may differ from financial statements.
The other information comprises only legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Highlights 2007, Cobham at a glance, the Chairmans 43 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
