Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the parent company financial statements We consider the implications for our report if we become of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 aware of any apparent misstatements or material which comprise the balance sheet, the statement of total inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
in shareholders funds, the related notes and the accounting policies.
These parent company financial statements have Basis of audit opinion been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have also audited the information in the Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in We have reported separately on the Group financial statements the parent company financial statements and the part of the of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual company financial statements, and of whether the accounting Report, the Directors remuneration report and the parent policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, company financial statements in accordance with applicable consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the for and only for the Companys members as a body in presentation of information in the parent company financial accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept to be audited.
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Opinion may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent In our opinion: in writing.
The parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the company financial statements give a true and fair view and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: whether the parent company financial statements and the The parent company financial statements and the part of part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the 1985: and information given in the Directors report is consistent with The information given in the Directors report is consistent the parent company financial statements.
with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all  LLP the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Southampton and other transactions is not disclosed.
14 March 2008 We read other information contained in the Annual Report Notes: and consider whether it is consistent with the audited The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website parent company financial statements.
The other information is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by comprises only the Highlights 2007, Cobham at a glance, the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any the statement on strategy, the Business review, the Financial changes that may have occurred to the financial statements review, the statement on corporate responsibility, the since they were initially presented on the website.
Directors report, the Corporate governance statement and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
91 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
