Financial Statements Auditors Report on the Groups Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Man Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the Group financial statements of Man Group plc for on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Principal Accounting An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Policies, the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
Group Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Group Cash It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Flow Statement and the related notes.
These group financial statements judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied We have reported separately on the parent company financial and adequately disclosed.
statements of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information is described as having been audited.
and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Group financial statements.
by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys for the year then ended: members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other IAS Regulation: and person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report  LLP to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information London given in the Directors Report includes that information presented in the 31 May 2007 Asset Management review, Brokerage review, Financial and Risk Management review and Corporate Responsibility Summary Report which is cross referred from the Principal activities, business review and results section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Directors Report, Corporate Governance and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 82
