40 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Opinion we have not received all the information We have audited the Group financial In our opinion: and explanations we require for our audit, statements of Compass Group PLC for the the Group financial statements give a or if information specified by law regarding year ended 30 September 2007 which true and fair view, in accordance with directors remuneration and other transactions comprise the consolidated income statement, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, is not disclosed.
the consolidated statement of recognised of the state of the Groups affairs as at income and expense, the consolidated balance 30 September 2007 and of its profit for We review whether the Corporate Governance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the year then ended: Statement reflects the Companys compliance the accounting policies and the related notes the Group financial statements have been with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined 1 to 37.
These Group financial statements properly prepared in accordance with the Code specified for our review by the Listing have been prepared under the accounting Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and policies set out therein.
We have also audited IAS Regulation: we report if it does not.
We are not required the information in the Directors remuneration the part of the Directors remuneration to consider whether the Boards statements on report that is described as having been audited.
report described as having been audited internal control cover all risks and controls, has been properly prepared in accordance or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the We have reported separately on the parent with the Companies Act 1985: and Groups corporate governance procedures or company financial statements of Compass Group the information given in the Directors its risk and control procedures.
PLC for the year ended 30 September 2007.
Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We read the other information contained in This report is made solely to the Companys the Annual Report as described in the contents members, as a body, in accordance with section and consider whether it is consistent section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. with the audited Group financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that We consider the implications for our report we might state to the Companys members if we become aware of any apparent those matters we are required to state to Deloitte & Touche LLP misstatements or material inconsistencies them in an auditors report and for no other Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with the Group financial statements.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, London responsibilities do not extend to any further we do not accept or assume responsibility to 28 November 2007 information outside the Annual Report.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Basis of audit opinion work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Respective responsibilities of Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
directors and auditors An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The directors responsibilities for preparing disclosures in the Group financial statements the Annual Report, the Directors and the part of the Directors remuneration remuneration report and the Group financial report to be audited.
It also includes an statements in accordance with applicable assessment of the significant estimates and law and International Financial Reporting judgements made by the directors in the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the preparation of the Group financial statements, European Union are set out in the statement and of whether the accounting policies are of directors responsibilities.
appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as relevant legal and regulatory requirements to obtain all the information and explanations and International Standards on Auditing which we considered necessary in order to UK and Ireland.
provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial We report to you our opinion as to whether statements and the part of the Directors the Group financial statements give a true remuneration report to be audited are free and fair view, whether the Group financial from material misstatement, whether caused statements have been properly prepared in by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and forming our opinion we also evaluated the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether overall adequacy of the presentation of the part of the Directors remuneration report information in the Group financial statements described as having been audited has been and the part of the Directors remuneration properly prepared in accordance with the report to be audited.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
