85 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the We have audited the parent company financial contents section and consider whether it is statements of Compass Group PLC for the consistent with the audited parent company year ended 30 September 2007 which financial statements.
We consider the comprise the parent company balance sheet, implications for our report if we become accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 9. aware of any apparent misstatements or These parent company financial statements material inconsistencies with the parent have been prepared under the accounting company financial statements.
Our policies set out therein.
responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Compass Group PLC Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 30 September 2007 and on the information in the Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with remuneration report that is described as International Standards on Auditing UK and having been audited.
Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a This report is made solely to the Companys test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts members, as a body, in accordance with and disclosures in the parent company section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. financial statements.
It also includes an Our audit work has been undertaken so that assessment of the significant estimates and we might state to the Companys members judgements made by the directors in the those matters we are required to state to them preparation of the parent company financial in an auditors report and for no other statements, and of whether the accounting purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by policies are appropriate to the Companys law, we do not accept or assume responsibility circumstances, consistently applied and to anyone other than the Company and the adequately disclosed.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We planned and performed our audit so as to have formed.
obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to Respective responsibilities of directors provide us with sufficient evidence to give and auditors reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from The directors responsibilities for preparing material misstatement, whether caused by the Annual Report, the Directors fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming remuneration report and the parent company our opinion we also evaluated the overall financial statements in accordance with adequacy of the presentation of information applicable law and United Kingdom in the parent company financial statements.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Opinion are set out in the statement of directors In our opinion: responsibilities.
the parent company financial statements Our responsibility is to audit the parent give a true and fair view, in accordance with company financial statements and the part United Kingdom Generally Accepted of the Directors remuneration report to be Accounting Practice, of the state of the audited in accordance with relevant legal and Companys affairs as at 30 September 2007: regulatory requirements and International the parent company financial statements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the information given in the Directors the parent company financial statements give Report is consistent with the parent a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements.
company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, London the Company has not kept proper accounting 28 November 2007 records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
