21977 Text p46-p88 10 12 07 20:55 Page 62 We report to you our opinion as to whether the Basis of audit opinion financial statements give a true and fair view Independent We conducted our audit in accordance with and whether the financial statements and the International Standards on Auditing UK and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
auditors report audited have been properly prepared in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as evidence relevant to the amounts and regards the group financial statements, Article 4 disclosures in the financial statements and the of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be whether in our opinion the information given To the Members of Shaftesbury PLC audited.
It also includes an assessment of the in the Directors' Report is consistent with the significant estimates and judgments made by We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
The information given the directors in the preparation of the financial financial statements the financial statements in the Directors Report includes that specific statements, and of whether the accounting of Shaftesbury PLC for the year ended 30 information presented in the Business Review policies are appropriate to the groups and September 2007 which comprise the Group and Corporate Responsibility that is cross companys circumstances, consistently applied Income Statement, the Group and Company referred from the Business Review section of and adequately disclosed.
Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Cash the Directors Report.
Flow Statements, the Group and Company We planned and performed our audit so as to In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity obtain all the information and explanations the company has not kept proper accounting and the related notes.
These financial which we considered necessary in order to records, if we have not received all the statements have been prepared under the provide us with sufficient evidence to give information and explanations we require for our accounting policies set out therein.
We have also reasonable assurance that the financial audit, or if information specified by law audited the information in the Directors statements and the part of the Directors regarding directors remuneration and other Remuneration Report that is described as Remuneration Report to be audited are free transactions is not disclosed.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming We review whether Corporate Governance reflects the companys compliance with the our opinion we also evaluated the overall Respective responsibilities adequacy of the presentation of information in nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 of Directors and Auditors specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
the Financial Services Authority, and we report The directors responsibilities for preparing the if it does not.
We are not required to consider Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration whether the boards statements on internal Report and the financial statements in Opinion control cover all risks and controls, or form accordance with applicable law and International an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups In our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as corporate governance procedures or its risk adopted by the European Union are set out in the group financial statements give a true and and control procedures.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted We read other information contained in the by the European Union, of the state of the Our responsibility is to audit the financial Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent groups affairs as at 30 September 2007 and of statements and the part of the Directors with the audited financial statements.
The other its profit and cash flows for the year then Remuneration Report to be audited in information comprises only the Performance ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Summary, the Chairmans Statement, the Business requirements and International Standards on the parent company financial statements give Review, the Directors Report, Corporate Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs Governance, the unaudited part of the Directors the opinion, has been prepared for and only for as adopted by the European Union as applied Remuneration Report, the Nomination Committee the companys members as a body in in accordance with the provisions of the Report, the Audit Committee Report, Corporate accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Responsibility, the Valuers Summary Report Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in companys affairs as at 30 September 2007 and the Directors Responsibilities.
We consider giving this opinion, accept or assume and of its cash flows for the year then ended: the implications for our report if we become responsibility for any other purpose or to any aware of any apparent misstatements or material the financial statements and the part of the other person to whom this report is shown or inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited into whose hands it may come save where Our responsibilities do not extend to any other have been properly prepared in accordance expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 5 December 2007 62 AnnualReport2007
