Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 40 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Workspace Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Workspace We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of statements.
The other information comprises only the Financial Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
Review, the Financial Review, the Report of the Directors, These Group financial statements have been prepared under the Directors Responsibilities, the Directors Remuneration Report, accounting policies set out therein.
the parent company financial statements and related notes, the Shareholder Reporting and the Additional Information.
We consider We have reported separately on the parent company financial the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving information and explanations which we considered necessary in this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial Opinion statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that and cash flows for the year then ended: is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all Regulation: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC  LLP Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
London We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on 11 June 2007 internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
