Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
statements the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc The information given in the Directors report includes that for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the specific information presented in the Chief Executives review, Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated and Parent Operating review and Financial review that is cross referred Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and Parent from the Review of operations section of the Directors report.
Company statements of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the related notes 1 to 35.
These financial statements have been not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if also audited the information in the Directors remuneration information specified by law regarding directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and other transactions are not disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of state to the Companys members those matters we are required the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this procedures or its risk and control procedures.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and the Chairmans statement, Operating review, the Chief International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Executives review, the Financial review and the Corporate by the European Union are set out in the Statement of governance statement.
We consider the implications for directors responsibilities.
our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Basis of audit opinion and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes with the Companies Act 1985, as regards the Group financial an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements information and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report made by the directors in the preparation of the financial to you whether in our opinion the information given in the statements, and of whether the accounting policies are 80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 21 May 2007 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 81
