INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE 138 MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Daily BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended 30th September, We conducted our audit in accordance with International 2007 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to 18.
These parent Company financial statements have been Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of We have reported separately on the Group financial statements the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in of Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and 30th September, 2007 and on the information in the Directors of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary companys members those matters we are required to state to in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the assurance that the parent company financial statements are free fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other responsibility to anyone other than the company and the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS OPINION The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, In our opinion: the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at of Directors Responsibilities.
30th September, 2007 the parent Company financial statements have been properly Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the parent company financial statements.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements have been properly Deloitte & Touche LLP prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is London consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The 20th November, 2007 information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
