GROup REpORT Of THE auDiTORS We report to you our opinion as to whether iNDEpENDENt AuDitors BAsis of AuDit opiNioN the Group financial statements give a true rEport to tHE MEMBErs We conducted our audit in accordance with and fair view and whether the Group financial of DANA pEtroLEuM pLc International Standards on Auditing UK and statements have been properly prepared in Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices We have audited the Group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Board.
An audit includes examination, on statements of Dana Petroleum plc for and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We a test basis, of evidence relevant to the the year ended 31 December 2007 which also report to you whether in our opinion amounts and disclosures in the Group comprise the Group Income Statement, the the information given in the Report of the financial statements.
It also includes Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Directors is consistent with the financial an assessment of the significant estimates Statement, the Group Statement of Change statements.
The information given in the and judgments made by the Directors in in Equity and the related notes 1 to 35.
Report of the Directors includes that specific the preparation of the Group financial These Group financial statements have been information presented in the Business statements, and of whether the accounting prepared under the accounting policies set Review and Financial Review that is cross policies are appropriate to the Groups out therein.
referred from the Business Review and circumstances, consistently applied and We have reported separately on the Future Activities section of the Report of the adequately disclosed.
parent company financial statements of Directors.
We planned and performed our audit so as to Dana Petroleum plc for the year ended 31 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, obtain all the information and explanations December 2007 and on the information in the we have not received all the information which we considered necessary in order Report on Directors Remuneration that is and explanations we require for our to provide us with sufficient evidence to described as having been audited.
audit, or if information specified by law give reasonable assurance that the Group This report is made solely to the Companys regarding Directors remuneration and other financial statements are free from material members, as a body, in accordance with transactions is not disclosed.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. or other irregularity or error.
In forming We review whether the Corporate Our audit work has been undertaken so that our opinion we also evaluated the overall Governance Statement reflects the we might state to the Companys members adequacy of the presentation of information Companys compliance with the nine those matters we are required to state to in the Group financial statements.
provisions of the 2006 Combined Code them in an auditors report and for no other specified for our review by the Listing Rules purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted opiNioN of the Financial Services Authority, and we by law, we do not accept or assume report if it does not.
We are not required to In our opinion: responsibility to anyone other than the consider whether the boards statements on Company and the Companys members as a the Group financial statements give a internal control cover all risks and controls, body, for our audit work, for this report, or true and fair view, in accordance with or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the for the opinions we have formed.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Groups corporate governance procedures or of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 its risk and control procedures.
rEspEctiVE December 2007 and of its profit for the We read other information contained in rEspoNsiBiLitiEs of year then ended: the Annual Report and consider whether DirEctors AND AuDitors the Group financial statements have been it is consistent with the audited Group The Directors responsibilities for preparing properly prepared in accordance with the financial statements.
The other information the Annual Report and the Group financial Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the comprises only the Report of the Directors, statements in accordance with applicable IAS Regulation: and the unaudited part of the Report on Directors United Kingdom law and International Remuneration, the Chairman and Chief the information given in the Report of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Executives Review, the Business Review Directors is consistent with the Group adopted by the European Union are set out in and the Financial Review.
We consider the financial statements.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
implications for our report if we become Our responsibility is to audit the Group aware of any apparent misstatements or financial statements in accordance with material inconsistencies with the Group Ernst & Young LLP relevant legal and regulatory requirements financial statements.
Our responsibilities do Registered auditor and International Standards on Auditing UK not extend to any other information.
6 June 2008 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 57
