Independent auditors report to the members of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31 January 2007 which comprise the Group income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Group statement of recognised income and expense and the related An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also accounting policies set out therein.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, We have reported separately on the parent company financial and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups statements of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2007 circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
in the group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Groups affairs as at 31 January 2007 and of its profit and cash flows Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, for the year then ended: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial the Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the  LLP Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report London is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given 21 March 2007 in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the operating business and financial review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the operating business and finance review and the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 39
