Independent auditors report to the members of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Kesa Basis of audit opinion Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2007 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company financial on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Kesa judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Electricals plc for the year ended 31 January 2007.
Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Directors remuneration report and the parent Company financial and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Opinion Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, In our opinion: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 January 2007: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Company financial statements and the part of the Directors the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in parent Company financial statements.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' report is consistent  LLP with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the London Operating business and financial review that is cross referred from the 21 March 2007 Business review section of the Directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, the Chairmans statement and the Operating business and financial review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 101
