86 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of fide La Rue plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and fide La Rue plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if financial statements have been prepared under the accounting we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material policies set out therein.
We have also Audited the information in the inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the Group financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International of fide La Rue plc for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our company financial statements and the part of the Directors audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment company's members those matters we are required to state to of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company's to anyone other than the company and the company's members circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the assurance that the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free statements in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities on pages 34 to overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent 35. company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Opinion be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory In our opinion: requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
- the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accouting Practice, of We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors - the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
- the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with The information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific the parent company financial statements.
information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 21 May 2007
