Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the members of DSG international plc We have audited the Group financial statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 36.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of DSG international plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation IAS Regulation No 1606 2002 and whether the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business and Financial Review and the Corporate Responsibility Review that is cross referred from the Business and Operating Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
DSG international plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report continued Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 April 2007 and of its profit for the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in note 1 of the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 April 2007 and of its profit for the period then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 20 June 2007 62 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
