Page 71 Independent auditors report TO THE MEMBERS OF AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP PLC financial statements.
The other information comprises only the the chief executives review, the chairmans introduction and We have audited the group financial statements of Aga the corporate governance statement.
We consider the Foodservice Group plc for the year ended 31st December 2007 implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent which comprise the consolidated income statement, the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income other information.
and expense and the related notes 1 to 32.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Basis of audit opinion policies set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing statements of Aga Foodservice Group plc for the year ended Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, 31st December 2007 and on the information in the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
state to the Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not information and explanations which we considered necessary accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report information in the Group financial statements.
and the Group financial statements in accordance with Opinion applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union In our opinion : are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of financial statements have been properly prepared in the IAS Regulation: and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the information given in the directors' report is consistent IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion with the Group financial statements.
the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that Ernst & Young LLP specific information that is cross referred to the chief Registered auditor executives review.
Birmingham In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not 14th March 2008 received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
