Independent Auditors Report to the Members of DS Smith Plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the financial statements of DS Smith Plc for the year ended 30 April 2007 controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and parent governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited notes 1 to 35 in the Group financial statements and notes 1 to 11 in the financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we parent Company financial statements.
These financial statements have become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that further information outside the Annual Report.
is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Basis of Audit Opinion accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the or for the opinions we have formed.
preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial European Union, and for preparing the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant Opinion legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing In our opinion: UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part affairs as at 30 April 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS addition, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Regulation: accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Directors Report includes that specic information presented elsewhere Practice, of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2007: in the Report and Accounts that is cross referred from the Principal the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Activities and Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law financial statements.
regarding Directors Remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Deloitte & Touche LLP Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services London, United Kingdom Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 27 June 2007 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 53
