Financial statements Parent company accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Emap plc We have audited the parent company accounts of Emap plc for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Company balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on sheet and the related notes.
These parent company accounts have Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration report that amounts and disclosures in the parent company accounts and the part is described as having been audited.
of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the We have reported separately on the Group accounts of Emap plc for Directors in the preparation of the parent company accounts, and of the year ended 31 March 2007. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Directors Remuneration report and the parent company accounts in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom accounting us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice parent company accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Our responsibility is to audit the parent company accounts and the part in the parent company accounts and the part of the Directors of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with Remuneration report to be audited.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has Opinion been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no In our opinion: other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs at 31 March 2007: the parent company accounts and the part of the Directors We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared accounts give a true and fair view and whether the parent company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the parent company accounts.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company accounts.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept  LLP proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is 22 May 2007 not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company Notes: accounts.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, The maintenance and integrity of the the Emap plc website is the responsibility of the the Chairmans letter and the Normalised results.
We consider the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
108 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
