Financial statements Group accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Emap plc We have audited the Group accounts of Emap plc for the year ended Basis of audit opinion 31 March 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant the related notes.
These Group accounts have been prepared under to the amounts and disclosures in the Group accounts.
It also includes the accounting policies set out therein.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group accounts and of whether We have reported separately on the parent company accounts the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, of Emap plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the information consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the Group accounts in accordance with applicable law and International fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Union are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group accounts in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body the Group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this for the year then ended: report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations: and the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group accounts give the Group accounts.
a true and fair view and whether the Group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' report is consistent with the Group accounts.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 22 May 2007 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes: We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and The maintenance and integrity of the Emap plc website is the responsibility of the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group accounts.
The Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that letter and the Normalised results.
We consider the implications for our may have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group accounts.
Our responsibilities do not Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
extend to any other information.
67 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
