G Gr ro ou up p a au ud diit to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Independent Auditors Report to the Members of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider EMI Group plc whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
We have audited the group financial statements of EMI Group plc for the The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Group consolidated Chief Executive Officers Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, income statement, Group consolidated balance sheet, Group the Corporate Governance Statement, the unaudited part of the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, Group Remuneration Report and Group Five Year Summary.
We consider consolidated cash flow statement and note, Group accounting policies the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent and the related notes 1 to 31.
These group financial statements have misstatements or material inconsistencies with the group financial been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements of EMI Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the group financial statements.
It also This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit by the directors in the preparation of the group financial statements, and work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the group financial statements in accordance with applicable United group financial statements.
Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Opinion Directors Responsibilities.
In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Our responsibility is to audit the group financial statements in accordance accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
loss for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the group financial statements accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the give a true and fair view and whether the group financial statements have IAS Regulation: and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the information given in the directors report is consistent with and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our the group financial statements.
opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Ernst & Young LLP Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section Registered auditor of the directors report.
London 21 May 2007 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the EMI Group plc web site is the responsibility of the is not disclosed.
directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the the web site.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
