Independent Auditors report to the members of Enodis plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Enodis plc for misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2007 which comprise the statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of information outside the Annual Report.
recognised income and expense, the Reconciliation of changes in Basis of audit opinion Consolidated shareholders equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on These Group financial statements have been prepared under the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the as having been audited.
part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and We have reported separately on the Parent Company judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements of Enodis plc for the 52 weeks ended financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are 29 September 2007. appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, adequately disclosed.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide the Companys members those matters we are required to state us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the to them in an Auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information have formed.
in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors remuneration report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Opinion Directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Statement of Directors responsibilities.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 September 2007 and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in of its profit for the period then ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial IAS Regulation: statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been Companies Act 1985: and audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information Group financial statements.
given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs specific information presented in the Operating and financial review As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in that is cross referred from the Enhanced Business review section of addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as have not received all the information and explanations we require for issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects September 2007 and of its profit for the period then ended.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its Deloitte &Touche LLP risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, 19 November 2007 as described in the contents section, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 66 | Enodis plc | Independent Auditors report to the members of Enodis plc
