Independent auditors report to the members of FKI plc We have audited the parent company financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which Report and consider whether it is consistent with the comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 16. audited parent company financial statements.
The other These parent company financial statements have been information comprises only the Chairmans statement, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
the operating and financial review, the corporate social We have also audited the information in the directors responsibility report, the corporate governance statement, remuneration report that is described as having the directors report and the unaudited part of the directors been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements We have reported separately on the Group financial or material inconsistencies with the parent company statements of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2007. financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend This report is made solely to the Companys members, to any other information.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Basis of audit opinion Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we We conducted our audit in accordance with International are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and than the Company and the Companys members as a body, disclosures in the parent company financial statements and for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the part of the directors remuneration report to be have formed.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors preparation of the parent company financial statements, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Report, the directors remuneration report and the parent to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and company financial statements in accordance with applicable adequately disclosed.
United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are the information and explanations which we considered set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal report to be audited are free from material misstatement, and regulatory requirements and International Standards whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors company financial statements give a true and fair view and remuneration report to be audited.
whether the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited Opinion have been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the parent company the parent company financial statements give a true directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom The information given in the directors report includes Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state that specific information presented in the operating and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: financial review that is cross referred from the business the parent company financial statements and the part review section of the directors report.
of the directors remuneration report to be audited In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the have been properly prepared in accordance with the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we Companies Act 1985: and have not received all the information and explanations we the information given in the directors report is require for our audit, or if information specified by law consistent with the parent company financial statements.
regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 15 June 2007 107 FKI plc
