Independent auditors report to the members of FKI plc We have audited the Group financial statements of FKI plc Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise to consider whether the boards statements on internal the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance the Consolidated statement of recognised income and procedures or its risk and control procedures.
expense and the related notes 1 to 42.
These Group We read other information contained in the financial statements have been prepared under the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent accounting policies set out therein.
with the audited Group financial statements.
The other We have reported separately on the parent company information comprises only the Chairmans statement, financial statements of FKI plc for the year ended the Operating and financial review, the Corporate social 31 March 2007 and on the information in the responsibility review, the Corporate governance statement, Remuneration report that is described as having the Directors report, and the unaudited part of the been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any This report is made solely to the Companys members, as apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies the Group financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that not extend to any other information.
we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and Basis of audit opinion for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by We conducted our audit in accordance with International law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the other than the Company and the Companys members Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and opinions we have formed.
disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting Report and the Group financial statements in accordance policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, with applicable United Kingdom law and International consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all directors responsibilities.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory statements are free from material misstatement, whether requirements and International Standards on Auditing caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming UK and Ireland.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy We report to you our opinion as to whether the of the presentation of information in the Group Group financial statements give a true and fair view and financial statements.
whether the Group financial statements have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you In our opinion: whether in our opinion the information given in the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European The information given in the Directors report includes Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March that specific information presented in the Operating and 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: financial review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law the information given in the Directors report is regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor We review whether the Corporate governance London statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for 15 June 2007 our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 51 FKI plc
