Annual Report and Accounts 2007 46 47 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Forth Ports PLC We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements the We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent financial statements of Forth Ports PLC for the year ended 31st December misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group and Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, Basis of audit opinion the Principal Accounting Policies and the related notes.
These financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures is described as having been audited.
in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Remuneration Report to be audited.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where Opinion expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors as at 31st December 2007 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance ended: with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards to the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specic in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the of the parent Companys affairs as at 31st December 2007 and cash ows Directors Report.
for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Regulation: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for statements.
our review by the listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements  LLP on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Edinburgh control procedures.
17th March 2008 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report, the Business Review, Corporate Social Responsibility, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the Report of the Audit Committee, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Report of the Nomination Committee.
