Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 69 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of GKN plc We have audited the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year We read other information contained in the annual report and consider ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated income whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense statement, the Chief Executives statement, the business review, the and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been corporate governance statement and the other information listed on the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
contents page of the annual report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in do not extend to any other information.
the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited on page 115.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of on page 51. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Group financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is for the year then ended: consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS business review that is cross referred from the business review section of Regulation: and the Directors report.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the  LLP Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Birmingham Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to 27 February 2008 consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
