Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 31st December 2007 which comprise the primary We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards financial statements, the consolidated Income Statement, the on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
consolidated Balance Sheet, the consolidated Cash Flow Statement, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements made prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, We have reported separately on the parent company financial and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups statements of GlaxoSmithKline for the year ended 31st December circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the that is described as having been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material auditors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Opinion Responsibilities page 88 opposite.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2007 and of its including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Regulation: and save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial with the Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with the the Directors is consistent with the Group financial statements.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as other transactions is not disclosed.
at 31st December 2007 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects then ended.
the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are  LLP not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the London effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its 27th February 2008 risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Notes: whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
a The maintenance and integrity of the GlaxoSmithKline website is the The other information comprises only the Financial summary, the Joint responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not statement by the Chairman and Chief Executive, Financial trends and involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept ratios, Business review and the Corporate governance statement.
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors report
