GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 25 Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc We have audited the Group and parent the accounts in accordance with provisions of the 2006 Combined Code company accounts the accounts of applicable law and International specified for our review by the Listing Greggs plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Rules of the Financial Reporting Authority, December 2007 which comprise the as adopted by the EU are set out in and we report if it does not.
We are not consolidated income statement, the the Statement of Directors required to consider whether the Boards consolidated and parent company responsibilities on page 24. statements on internal control cover balance sheets, the consolidated and all risks and controls, or form an opinion Our responsibility is to audit the accounts parent company cashflow statements, on the effectiveness of the Groups and the part of the Directors the consolidated and parent company corporate governance procedures or Remuneration Report to be audited in statements of recognised income and its risk and control procedures.
accordance with relevant legal and expense and related notes.
The regulatory requirements and International We read the other information contained accounts have been prepared under the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in the Annual Report and consider accounting policies set out therein.
We whether it is consistent with the audited We report to you our opinion as to have also audited the information in the accounts.
We consider the implications whether the accounts give a true and Directors Remuneration Report that is for our report if we become aware of fair view and whether the accounts described as having been audited.
any apparent misstatements or and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the material inconsistencies with the Remuneration Report to be audited Companys members, as a body, in accounts.
Our responsibilities do not have been properly prepared in accordance with section 235 of the extend to any other information.
accordance with the Companies Act Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work 1985 and, as regards the Group BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION has been undertaken so that we might accounts, Article 4 of the IAS We conducted our audit in accordance state to the Companys members Regulation.
We also report to you with International Standards on those matters we are required to state whether, in our opinion, the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the to them in an auditors report and for information given in the Directors Auditing Practices Board.
An audit no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Report is consistent with the accounts.
includes examination, on a test basis, permitted by law, we do not accept or of evidence relevant to the amounts In addition we report to you if, in our assume responsibility to anyone other and disclosures in the accounts and the opinion, the Company has not kept than the Company and the Companys part of the Directors Remuneration proper accounting records, if we have members as a body, for our audit Report to be audited.
It also includes not received all the information and work, for this report, or for the an assessment of the significant explanations we require for our audit, opinions we have formed.
estimates and judgements made by the or if information specified by law RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES directors in the preparation of the regarding directors remuneration and OF DIRECTORS AND accounts, and of whether the other transactions is not disclosed.
AUDITORS accounting policies are appropriate to The directors responsibilities for We review whether the Corporate the Groups and parent companys preparing the Annual Report, the Governance Statement reflects the circumstances, consistently applied and Directors Remuneration Report and Companys compliance with the nine adequately disclosed.
26 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Independent auditors report to the members of Greggs plc CONTINUED We planned and performed our audit OPINION  the accounts and the part of the so as to obtain all the information and In our opinion: Directors Remuneration Report to explanations which we considered be audited have been properly  the Group accounts give a true and necessary in order to provide us with prepared in accordance with the fair view, in accordance with IFRSs sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companies Act 1985 and, as regards as adopted by the EU, of the state assurance that the accounts and the the Group accounts, Article 4 of the of the Groups affairs as at 29 part of the Directors Remuneration IAS Regulation: and December 2007 and of its profit for Report to be audited are free from the 52 weeks then ended:  the information given in the material misstatement, whether Directors Report is consistent with  the parent company accounts give a caused by fraud or other irregularity or the accounts.
true and fair view, in accordance error.
In forming our opinion we also with IFRSs as adopted by the EU KPMG Audit Plc evaluated the overall adequacy of the as applied in accordance with the Chartered Accountants presentation of information in the Companies Act 1985, of the state of Registered Auditor accounts and the part of the Directors the parent companys affairs as at 29 Newcastle upon Tyne Remuneration Report to be audited.
