Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Halfords Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Halfords Group We read other information contained in the Annual Report and plc for the 52 weeks to 30 March 2007 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity and the related the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared Finance Directors Report, the Five Year Record and the Corporate under the accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or We have reported separately on the Company financial statements material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our of Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to 30 March 2007 and on responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing AND AUDITORS Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the Responsibilities.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, information and explanations which we considered necessary in including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of assurance that the Group financial statements are free from the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by financial statements.
our prior consent in writing.
OPINION We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 March 2007 and of its in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial profit and cash flows for the 52 weeks then ended: statements.
The information given in the Directors Report the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in includes that specific information presented in the Chief accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Executives Review and the Finance Directors Report that is IAS Regulation: and cross-referenced from the Business Review section of the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Directors Report.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, with the Group financial statements.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Birmingham the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 6 June 2007 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
