68 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Independent Auditors report to the members of Halma p. l. c. We have audited the Group financial statements of Halma p. l. c. We read the Report of the Directors and the other information for the 52 weeks to 31 March 2007 which comprise the contained in the Annual report for the above period as described Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance in the contents section including the unaudited part of the sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Statement Directors Report on remuneration and consider whether it of recognised income and expense and the Reconciliation of is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
movements in shareholders funds together with the statement We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of Accounting policies and the related notes numbered 1 to 28. of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with These Group financial statements have been prepared under the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited to any further information outside the Annual report.
the information in the part of the Directors Report on remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the parent Company financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements of Halma p. l. c. for the 52 weeks to 31 March 2007.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Report on remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an to the Companys members those matters we are required to assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statements and of whether the accounting policies are assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, and adequately disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Directors Report on remuneration and the Group financial assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of statements in accordance with applicable law and International the Directors Report on remuneration to be audited are free Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group statements and the part of the Directors Report on remuneration financial statements and the part of the Directors Report on described as having been audited in accordance with relevant remuneration to be audited.
United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements have been properly prepared in accordance with accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the Companies Act 1985 and article 4 of the IAS Regulation as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the and whether the part of the Directors Report on remuneration Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the described as having been audited has been properly prepared 52 week period then ended: in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to the Group financial statements have been properly prepared you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and article 4 of the Directors is consistent with the Group financial statements.
of the IAS Regulations: The information given in the Report of the Directors includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial the part of the Directors Report on remuneration described review that is cross referred from the Business review section as having been audited has been properly prepared in of the Report of the Directors.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if in our opinion we have not the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent received all the information and explanations we require for our with the Group financial statements.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions with the Company and Deloitte & Touche LLP other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Reading, UK We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2004 19 June 2007 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
