Headlam Group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Headlam Group plc We have audited the group and parent company financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements of Headlam Group plc for statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, Group and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in Expenses, and the related notes.
These financial statements have our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the Directors Report includes that information presented in the Report that is described as having been audited.
Chairmans Statement, Business Review and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Review of the Business section of the This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Directors Report.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the companys members those matters we are required to state to information and explanations we require for our audit, or if them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility other transactions is not disclosed.
to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects have formed.
the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the are not required to consider whether the boards statements on Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on accordance with applicable law and International Financial the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set out in or its risk and control procedures.
the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 28.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and become aware of any apparent misstatements or material International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Headlam Group plc - continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to the groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant the year then ended: estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation the parent company financial statements give a true and fair of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the financial statements and the part of the Directors information and explanations which we considered necessary in Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as assurance that the financial statements and the part of the regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Regulation: and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the information given in the Directors Report is consistent irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the with the financial statements.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 2 Cornwall Street Birmingham B3 2DL 17 March 2008
