Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Hikma Basis of audit opinion Pharmaceuticals PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with International which comprise the consolidated income statement, the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of changes in equity, the consolidated cash ow statement, the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group related notes 1 to 40.
These Group financial statements have financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in report that is described as having been audited.
the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent company financial circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from the Companys members those matters we are required to state material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report to be audited.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors In our opinion: The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the Group nancialthe Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements in accordance with applicable law and International accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
its profit for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements inthe Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
IAS Regulation: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group nancialthe part of the Directors remuneration report described as statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial having been audited has been properly prepared in statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with whether the part of the Directors remuneration report described the Group financial statements.
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs our opinion the information given in the Directors report is As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the consistent with the Group financial statements.
group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied received all the information and explanations we require for with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Standards Board.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair We review whether the corporate governance statement reects view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Deloitte & Touche LLP not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Chartered Accountants statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or and Registered Auditors form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate London, United Kingdom governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
17 March 2008 We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 55
