Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HMV Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of HMV Group plc for the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial year ended 28 April 2007 which comprise the Group Income statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Business and Financial the Group and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider and Expenses and the related Notes 1 to 36.
These financial the implications for our report if we become aware of any statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Basis of audit opinion Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with International state to the Companys members those matters we are required Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant report, or for the opinions we have formed.
estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and information and explanations which we considered necessary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Responsibilities.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Opinion to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 April 2007 and Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information of its profit for the year then ended: given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business and Financial Review that is the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair cross referred from the Business Review section of the view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Directors Report.
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received affairs as at 28 April 2007: all the information and explanations we require for our audit, the financial statements and the part of the Directors or if information specified by law regarding Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly remuneration and other transactions are not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it with the financial statements.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, Ernst & Young LLP or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Registered auditor governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London 27 June 2007 45 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
