Independent auditors report on the consolidated Group accounts We have audited the group financial directors remuneration report described explanations which we considered statements of Galiform plc for the 52 as having been audited has been necessary in order to provide us with weeks ended 29 December 2007 properly prepared in accordance with the sufficient evidence to give reasonable which comprise the Consolidated Companies Act 1985.
We also report to assurance that the group financial Income Statement, the Consolidated you whether in our opinion the information statements and the part of the Directors Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash given in the Directors Report is consistent Remuneration Report to be audited are Flow Statement, the Consolidated with the group financial statements.
free from material misstatement, whether Statement of Recognised Income and caused by fraud or other irregularity In addition we report to you if, in our Expense and the related notes 1 to 31. or error.
In forming our opinion we also opinion, we have not received all the These group financial statements have evaluated the overall adequacy of the information and explanations we require been prepared under the accounting presentation of information in the group for our audit, or if information specified policies set out therein.
We have also financial statements and the part of the by law regarding directors remuneration audited the information in the Directors Directors Remuneration Report and other transactions is not disclosed.
Remuneration Report that is described to be audited.
We review whether the Corporate Opinion Governance Statement reflects the We have reported separately on the In our opinion: companys compliance with the nine parent company financial statements provisions of the 2006 Combined Code the group financial statements give of Galiform plc for the 52 weeks ended specified for our review by the Listing a true and fair view, in accordance with 29 December 2007.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, IFRSs as adopted by the European This report is made solely to the and we report if it does not.
We are not Union, of the state of the groups companys members, as a body, required to consider whether the boards affairs as at 29 December 2007 and of in accordance with section 235 of the statements on internal control cover all its profit for the 52 weeks then ended Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work risks and controls, or form an opinion on has been undertaken so that we might the effectiveness of the groups corporate the group financial statements have state to the companys members those governance procedures or its risk and been properly prepared in accordance matters we are required to state to them control procedures.
with the Companies Act 1985 and in an auditors report and for no other Article 4 of the IAS Regulation We read the other information contained purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted the part of the directors remuneration in the Annual Report as described in the by law, we do not accept or assume report described as having been contents section and consider whether responsibility to anyone other than the audited has been properly prepared it is consistent with the audited group company and the companys members in accordance with the Companies financial statements.
We consider the as a body, for our audit work, for this Act 1985: and implications for our report if we become report, or for the opinions we have formed.
aware of any apparent misstatements the information given in the Directors or material inconsistencies with the group Respective responsibilities Report is consistent with the group financial statements.
Our responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements do not extend to any further information The directors responsibilities outside the Annual Report.
for preparing the Annual Report, Deloitte & Touche LLP the Directors Remuneration Report Chartered Accountants and Basis of audit opinion and the group financial statements Registered Auditors We conducted our audit in accordance in accordance with applicable law London with International Standards on Auditing and International Financial Reporting UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Standards IFRSs as adopted by the 6 March 2008 Practices Board.
An audit includes European Union are set out in the examination, on a test basis, of evidence Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures Our responsibility is to audit the group in the group financial statements and financial statements in accordance the part of the Directors Remuneration with relevant legal and regulatory Report to be audited.
It also includes requirements and International Standards an assessment of the significant on Auditing UK and Ireland.
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the group We report to you our opinion as to financial statements, and of whether the whether the group financial statements accounting policies are appropriate to give a true and fair view, whether the the groups circumstances, consistently group financial statements have been applied and adequately disclosed.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the We planned and performed our audit IAS Regulation and whether the part of the so as to obtain all the information and GA2227 - AR07 back AW02.
