annual report & accounts two thousand & seven 39 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Hunting PLC We have audited the group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Hunting PLC for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Principal Accounting Policies, the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Committees Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Committees Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Report of the Directors, the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committees Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Board of Directors, the Corporate Social Responsibility Statement, the Corporate Governance Statement, Shareholder information and the Financial Record.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
40 annual report & accounts two thousand & seven Report of the Auditors continued Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 and cash flows for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 28 February 2008 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the Hunting PLC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
