Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Interserve We read the other information contained in the Annual report Plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the as described in the contents section and consider whether it Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated consider the implications for our report if we become aware statement of recognised income and expense and the related of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with notes 1 to 34.
These Group financial statements have been the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements of Interserve Plc for the year ended Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test 31 December 2007. basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial state to the Companys members those matters we are statements, and of whether the accounting policies are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do applied and adequately disclosed.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free the Directors remuneration report and the Group financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements in accordance with applicable law and International irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Union are set out in the Directors responsibility statement.
the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and of its profit for the year then ended: and whether the part of the Directors remuneration report the Group financial statements have been properly described as having been audited has been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding the information given in the Directors report is consistent directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Deloitte & Touche LLP statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate London, United Kingdom governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
11 March 2008 Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 57
