INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF INVENSYS PLC We have audited the Group financial statements financial statements We read other information contained in the Annual report and of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated balance sheet, This other information comprises the Board of directors, the Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated statement of Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, Business review, recognised income and expense, Accounting policies, the related Corporate governance report, Remuneration report, Statement of Notes 1 to 35 and the list of Principal subsidiaries as at 31 March 2007. directors responsibilities, Financial summary, listing of Principal These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting subsidiaries as at 31 March 2007 and Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatement or material inconsistencies with the financial We have reported separately on the Parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having Basis of audit opinion been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements members those matters we are required to state to them in an made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation the European Union as set out in the Statement of directors of information in the financial statements.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance In our opinion: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance give a true and fair view, the financial statements have been properly with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of and the IAS Regulation and the information given in the Directors report is the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the consistent with the financial statements.
We also report to you if, in financial statements.
our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Ernst & Young LLP directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor London We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects 23 May 2007 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 63
