Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc We have audited the group and parent company accounts the We read other information contained in the annual report accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
comprise the group income statement, the group and parent company The other information comprises only the chairmans statement, balance sheets, the group cash flow statement, the group statement of the chief executives review, the directors report, the unaudited recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These accounts part of the directors remuneration report, the operating and financial have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
review and the corporate governance statement.
We consider the We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent report that is described as having been audited.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit Basis of audit opinion work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
group accounts in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Union, and for preparing the parent company accounts and the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other of directors responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the directors and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing Opinion UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true n the group accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the directors with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups affairs remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, n the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the group accounts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with n the parent company accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the the accounts.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the operating and financial parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2007 review that is cross referred from the business review section of the n the parent company accounts and the part of the directors directors report.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information n the information given in the directors report is consistent with and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified the accounts.
by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is KPMG Audit Plc not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Registered Auditor companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Manchester Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 11 March 2008 Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
122 AMEC plc annual report 2007 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 112233 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
