INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements of J D Wetherspoon plc We read other information contained in the Annual Report and for the 52 week period ended 29 July 2007 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Corporate Social under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also Responsibility Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report We consider the implications for our report if we become aware that is described as having been audited.
of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors other information.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Basis of audit opinion in accordance with applicable law and International Financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is information and explanations which we considered necessary in shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable agreed by our prior consent in writing.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our be audited.
opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in Opinion the Directors Report includes that specific information presented In our opinion: in the Financial Review that is cross referenced from the Directors Report.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the companys affairs as at 29 July 2007 and of its profit and cash In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all flows for the period then ended: the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards  LLP statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
7 September 2007 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 25
