JJB Sports plc Independent auditors report to the members of JJB Sports plc For the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 We have audited the Group and individual company financial statements of JJB Sports plc for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the Consolidated reconciliation of movements in equity, Consolidated and individual Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and individual Company cash flow statements and the Statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 42.
These Financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the Financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 20.
Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the Group Financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business and financial review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In addition, we also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual report as described in the Contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group Financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 January 2007 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: the individual Company Financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union as applied in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the individual Companys affairs as at 28 January 2007: the Financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and as regards the Group Financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS As explained in the Statement of accounting policies, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply those IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our opinion the Financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 January 2007 and of its profit for the 52 weeks then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Manchester 6 June 2007 JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 30
