Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members We read the other information contained in the Annual Report of JKX Oil & Gas plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group We have audited the Group financial statements of JKX Oil & financial statements.
The other information comprises only Gas plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Directors Report, the unaudited parts of the Directors the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Executives Statement, the Operations and Financial Review, Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
the Corporate Governance Statement and the Corporate These Group financial statements have been prepared Responsibility Statement.
We consider the implications for our under the accounting policies set out therein.
report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
financial statements of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and the Group financial statements in accordance with Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This information and explanations which we considered necessary in report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section assurance that the Group financial statements are free from 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Group financial statements.
agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group In our opinion: financial statements have been properly prepared in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then the Group financial statements.
The information given in the ended: Directors Report includes that specific information presented the Group financial statements have been properly in the Operations and Financial Review that is cross referred prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not the information given in the Directors Report is consistent received all the information and explanations we require for our with the Group financial statements.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions London of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the 2 April 2008 Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 53
