Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members We read other information contained in the Annual Report of JKX Oil & Gas plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Company financial statements.
The other information JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of comprise the Balance sheet and the related notes.
These the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Parent Company financial statements have been prepared Statement, the Chief Executives Statement, the Operations under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Responsibility Statement.
We consider the that is described as having been audited.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31 December 2007. extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Directors Remuneration Report and the Parent Company Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report made by the directors in the preparation of the Parent Company to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared applied and adequately disclosed.
for and only for the Companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for information and explanations which we considered necessary no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other assurance that the Parent Company financial statements and person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud in writing.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the information in the Parent Company financial statements and Parent Company financial statements and the part of the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Opinion We also report to you whether in our opinion the information In our opinion: given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Parent the Parent Company financial statements give a true and Company financial statements.
The information given in the fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Directors Report includes that specific information presented Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the in the Operations and Financial Review that is cross referred Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Act 1985: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the information given in the Directors Report is consistent and other transactions is not disclosed.
with the Parent Company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 2 April 2008 Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 83
