Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnston Press plc We have audited the group and parent company financial form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate statements the ''financial statements'' of Johnston Press plc governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Income and Expense, the Group Reconciliation of Shareholders as described in the contents section and consider whether it is Equity, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider Group Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 46. the implications for our report if we become aware of any These financial statements have been prepared under the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is further information outside the Annual Report.
described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the companys members, as a We conducted our audit in accordance with International body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, state to the companys members those matters we are required of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
financial statements and the part of the Directors' To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's and company's circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors adequately disclosed.
The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the group financial statements in accordance with We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards information and explanations which we considered necessary in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the parent company financial statements and the Directors' assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Group irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the and Company Statements of Directors' Responsibilities.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Remuneration Report to be audited.
part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the state of the group's affairs as at 31 December 2007 statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report and of its profit for the year then ended: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the group financial statements have been properly prepared the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the group in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance the IAS Regulation: with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you the parent company financial statements give a true and fair whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent company's information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific affairs as at 31 December 2007: information presented in the Business Review that is cross the parent company financial statements and the part of the referred from the Review of Business section of the Directors' Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been Report.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all with the financial statements.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the company's compliance with the nine provisions of Deloitte & Touche LLP the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Edinburgh does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's United Kingdom statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or 5 March 2008 68 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
