Auditors report on group financial statements Independent Auditors Report to The information given in the directors' report We planned and performed our audit so as to the Members of Kelda Group Plc includes that specific information presented in obtain all the information and explanations which We have audited the group financial statements of the business review that is cross referred from the we considered necessary in order to provide us Kelda Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 business review section of the directors' report.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable which comprise the group income statement, assurance that the group financial statements are the group statement of recognised income and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, free from material misstatement, whether caused expense, the group balance sheet, the group cash we have not received all the information and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming flow statement and the related notes 1 to 30. explanations we require for our audit, or if our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy These group financial statements have been information specified by law regarding directors of the presentation of information in the group prepared under the accounting policies set remuneration and other transactions is not financial statements.
Opinion We have reported separately on the parent We review whether the Corporate Governance In our opinion: company financial statements of Kelda Group plc Statement reflects the companys compliance with for the year ended 31 March 2007 and on the the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code the group financial statements give a true and information in the directors remuneration report specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted that is described as having been audited.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does by the European Union, of the state of the not.
We are not required to consider whether the groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its This report is made solely to the company's boards statements on internal control cover all profit for the year then ended: members, as a body, in accordance with Section risks and controls, or form an opinion on the the group financial statements have been 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work effectiveness of the groups corporate governance properly prepared in accordance with the has been undertaken so that we might state to the procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS company's members those matters we are required Regulation: and to state to them in an auditors' report and for no We read other information contained in the Annual the information given in the directors' report is other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Report and consider whether it is consistent with consistent with the group financial statements.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the audited group financial statements.
The other to anyone other than the company and the information comprises only the directors report, company's members as a body, for our audit work, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration Ernst & Young LLP for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
report, group highlights, our business, chairmans Registered Auditor statement, chief executive review, business review, Leeds Respective responsibilities corporate governance statement and corporate 14 June 2007 of directors and auditors social responsibility statement.
We consider the The directors responsibilities for preparing the implications for our report if we become aware of Annual Report and the group financial statements any apparent misstatements or material in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law inconsistencies with the group financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards Our responsibilities do not extend to any other IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set information.
out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Basis of audit opinion Our responsibility is to audit the group financial We conducted our audit in accordance with statements in accordance with relevant legal International Standards on Auditing UK and and regulatory requirements and International Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures We report to you our opinion as to whether the in the group financial statements.
It also includes group financial statements give a true and fair view an assessment of the significant estimates and and whether the group financial statements have judgments made by the directors in the been properly prepared in accordance with the preparation of the group financial statements, and Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our to the groups circumstances, consistently applied opinion the information given in the directors' and adequately disclosed.
report is consistent with the financial statements.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
