Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF YORKSHIRE WATER SERVICES LIMITED We have audited the companys financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the Profit and Loss Account, Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view, are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and that the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors' report includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross-referred from the business review section of the directors report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the directors report and business review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give 40 Auditors Report reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Leeds 41 Regulatory Accounting Information 2007 Contents Historical Cost Information Profit and Loss Account 44 Balance Sheet 45 Current Cost Information Profit and Loss Account 46 Balance Sheet 47 Cash Flow Statement 48 Notes to the Regulatory Accounting Information 49 Regulatory Operating and Financial Review and Other Regulatory Disclosures 62 Directors Responsibilities 64 Other Regulatory Declarations 65 Auditors Report 66 Explanatory note Pages 44 to 68 include the regulatory accounting information which the company is required to publish under the company's Instrument of Appointment as a water and sewerage undertaker.
The information has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Regulatory Accounting Guidelines issued by the Director General of Water Services.
The prior year balance sheet has been restated in accordance with new Regulatory Accounting Guideline 3.06 Guideline for the contents of regulatory accounts in order to provide relevant comparative figures.
