Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Keller Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial We read the other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of Keller Group plc for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Basis of audit opinion information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with International described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the state to the Companys members those matters we are required significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this adequately disclosed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and the Group financial statements in accordance with assurance that the financial statements and the part of the applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 46.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Opinion part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial for the year then ended: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with of the IAS Regulation: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The 31 December 2007: information given in the Directors Report includes that specic the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the information presented in the Chairmans Statement, Operating Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been Review and the Financial Review that is cross-referred from the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Business Review section of the Directors Report.
1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has with the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if KPMG Audit Plc information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Chartered Accountants and other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement London EC4Y 8BB reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of 28 February 2008 the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Independent Auditors Report Keller Group plc 47
