Independent auditors report to the members of Kier Group plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the annual report and the financial statements of Kier Group plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
30 June 2007 which comprise the consolidated income statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the the consolidated balance sheet, the company balance sheet, the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in Basis of audit opinion the directors remuneration report that is described as having We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the members those matters we are required to state to them in an directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the EU IFRS, and for preparing the parent company financial the presentation of information in the financial statements and the statements and the directors remuneration report in accordance part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement of Opinion directors responsibilities on page 44.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International 30 June 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and IAS Regulation: the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2007: information given in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report the parent company financial statements and the part of the includes that information presented in the operating and financial directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly review that is cross-referred from the business review section of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and directors report.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if KPMG Audit Plc information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Chartered Accountants other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 12 September 2007 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
45 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
