102 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Independent auditors report to the members of Kingfisher plc We have audited the Parent company with the Companies Act 1985.
We also of the Parent company financial financial statements of Kingfisher plc for report to you whether in our opinion the statements, and of whether the the year ended 3 February 2007 which information given in the Directors report accounting policies are appropriate to the comprise the Balance sheet and the is consistent with the Parent company companys circumstances, consistently related notes.
These Parent company financial statements.
financial statements have been prepared The information given in the Directors We planned and performed our audit under the accounting policies set out report includes that specific information so as to obtain all the information and therein.
We have also audited the presented in the Operating review and explanations which we considered information in the Remuneration report the Financial review that is cross referred necessary in order to provide us with that is described as having been audited.
from the business review section of the sufficient evidence to give reasonable We have reported separately on Directors report.
assurance that the Parent company the Group financial statements of In addition we report to you if, in financial statements and the part of Kingfisher plc for the year ended our opinion, the company has not kept Remuneration report to be audited are 3 February 2007. proper accounting records, if we have free from material misstatement, whether not received all the information and caused by fraud or other irregularity or Respective responsibilities explanations we require for our audit, or error.
In forming our opinion we also of directors and auditors if information specified by law regarding evaluated the overall adequacy of the The directors responsibilities for preparing directors remuneration and other presentation of information in the Parent the annual report, the Remuneration transactions is not disclosed.
company financial statements and the part report and the Parent company financial We read other information contained of the Remuneration report to be audited.
statements in accordance with applicable in the annual report and consider whether law and United Kingdom Accounting it is consistent with the audited Parent Opinion Standards United Kingdom Generally company financial statements.
The other In our opinion: Accepted Accounting Practice, are set information comprises only the Chairmans out in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Chief Executives review, the Parent company financial statements statement.
the Operating review, the Financial review, give a true and fair view, in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the Parent the Directors report, the Directors with United Kingdom Generally Accepted company financial statements and the part responsibilities statement, the Corporate Accounting Practice, of the state of the of the Remuneration report to be audited Governance report, the Audit Committee companys affairs as at 3 February 2007: in accordance with relevant legal and report and the Nomination Committee regulatory requirements and International report.
We consider the implications for the Parent company financial statements Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
our report if we become aware of any and the part of the Remuneration report This report, including the opinion, has apparent misstatements or material to be audited have been properly prepared been prepared for and only for the inconsistencies with the Parent company in accordance with the Companies Act companys members as a body financial statements.
Our responsibilities 1985: and in accordance with Section 235 of the do not extend to any other information.
Companies Act 1985 and for no other the information given in the Directors purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Basis of audit opinion report is consistent with the Parent accept or assume responsibility for any We conducted our audit in accordance company financial statements.
other purpose or to any other person to with International Standards on Auditing whom this report is shown or into whose UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing hands it may come save where expressly Practices Board.
An audit includes agreed by our prior consent in writing.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence We report to you our opinion as to relevant to the amounts and disclosures whether the Parent company financial in the Parent company financial statements  LLP statements give a true and fair view and and the part of the Remuneration report to Chartered Accountants and whether the Parent company financial be audited.
It also includes an assessment Registered Auditors statements and the part of the of the significant estimates and judgments London Remuneration report to be audited have made by the directors in the preparation 28 March 2007 been properly prepared in accordance Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 103 Kingfisher plc five year history The amounts disclosed for 2004 and earlier periods are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts for periods prior to the date of transition to IFRS.
The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS impacting the Group are the treatment of goodwill, post employment benefits, deferred and current taxes, accounting for share-based payments, leases and the valuation of properties.
The Group has undergone a significant amount of restructuring including the buy-out of the Castorama minority in 2002 03 and the demerger of Kesa Electricals in 2003 04.
This restructuring also included a rights issue and two share consolidations.
The income statement information presented below represents continuing operations only.
As the financial information would not be directly comparable, no balance sheet or share information has been included in the five year history for 2003.
assets are included in operating profIt within amortisation UK GAAP only, acquisition intangible exceptional items.
amortisation IFRS only and financing fair value remeasurements IFRS only.
