90 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Independent auditors report to the members of Kingfisher plc We have audited the Group financial The information given in the Directors estimates and judgments made by the statements of Kingfisher plc for the year report includes that specific information directors in the preparation of the Group ended 3 February 2007 which comprise presented in the Operating review and financial statements, and of whether the the Consolidated income statement, the the Financial review that is cross referred accounting policies are appropriate to Consolidated statement of recognised from the business review section of the the Groups circumstances, consistently income and expense, the Consolidated Directors report.
balance sheet, the Consolidated cash flow In addition we report to you if, in our We planned and performed our audit statement, and the related notes.
These opinion, we have not received all the so as to obtain all the information and Group financial statements have been information and explanations we require explanations which we considered prepared under the accounting policies for our audit, or if information specified by necessary in order to provide us with set out therein.
law regarding directors remuneration and sufficient evidence to give reasonable We have reported separately on other transactions is not disclosed.
assurance that the Group financial the Parent company financial statements We review whether the Corporate statements are free from material of Kingfisher plc for the year ended Governance statement reflects the misstatement, whether caused by fraud 3 February 2007 and on the information companys compliance with the nine or other irregularity or error.
In forming in the Remuneration report that is provisions of the Combined Code 2003 our opinion we also evaluated the described as having been audited.
specified for our review by the Listing overall adequacy of the presentation Rules of the Financial Services Authority, of information in the Group Respective responsibilities of and we report if it does not.
We are not financial statements.
directors and auditors required to consider whether the Boards The directors responsibilities for preparing statements on internal control cover all Opinion the annual report and the Group financial risks and controls, or form an opinion on In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable the effectiveness of the Groups corporate law and International Financial Reporting governance procedures or its risk and the Group financial statements give a true Standards IFRSs as adopted by the control procedures.
and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as European Union are set out in the We read other information contained adopted by the European Union, of the Directors responsibilities statement.
in the annual report and consider whether state of the Groups affairs as at 3 Our responsibility is to audit the Group it is consistent with the audited Group February 2007 and of its profit and cash financial statements in accordance with financial statements.
The other information flows for the year then ended: relevant legal and regulatory requirements comprises only the Chairmans statement, and International Standards on Auditing the Chief Executives review, the Operating the Group financial statements have been UK and Ireland.
This report, including the review, the Financial review, the Directors properly prepared in accordance with the opinion, has been prepared for and only report, the Directors responsibilities Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of for the companys members as a body in statement, the Corporate Governance the IAS Regulation: and accordance with Section 235 of the report, the Audit Committee report and Companies Act 1985 and for no other the Nomination Committee report.
the information given in the Directors purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, We consider the implications for our report is consistent with the Group accept or assume responsibility for any report if we become aware of any financial statements.
other purpose or to any other person to apparent misstatements or material whom this report is shown or into whose inconsistencies with the Group financial hands it may come save where expressly statements.
Our responsibilities do not  LLP agreed by our prior consent in writing.
extend to any other information.
Chartered Accountants and We report to you our opinion as to Registered Auditors whether the Group financial statements Basis of audit opinion London give a true and fair view and whether the We conducted our audit in accordance 28 March 2007 Group financial statements have been with International Standards on Auditing properly prepared in accordance with the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Practices Board.
An audit includes IAS Regulation.
We also report to you examination, on a test basis, of evidence whether in our opinion the information relevant to the amounts and disclosures in given in the Directors report is consistent the Group financial statements.
It also with the Group financial statements.
includes an assessment of the significant
