Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 103 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 39. in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group set out therein.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required of information in the Group financial statements.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Opinion the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this In our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Ernst & Young LLP We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give Registered auditor a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly London prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS 28 February 2008 Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
