Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back2:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back2 19 3 08 11:55 Page 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC Independent auditors report to the members of Ladbrokes plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Balance Sheet and the related UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes notes 1 to 18.
These parent Company financial statements have been prepared examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Ladbrokes plc of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting for the year ended 31 December 2007. policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance and adequately disclosed.
with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company financial statements permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Remuneration Report and the parent Company financial statements in accordance Opinion with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom In our opinion: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Responsibilities.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance UK and Ireland.
with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial statements Company financial statements.
give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Ernst & Young LLP with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Registered auditor Report includes that specific information presented in the Financial Review that London is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
28 February 2 008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
