Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Independent auditors report to Basis of audit opinion the members of LogicaCMG plc We conducted our audit in accordance with international standards on auditing uK and ireland issued by the auditing practices board.
We have audited the parent Company Financial statements of an audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant logicaCMg plc for the year ended 31 december 2007 which comprise to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company Financial the balance sheet and the related notes.
these parent Company statements and the part of the Report of Remuneration Committee to Financial statements have been prepared under the accounting be audited.
it also includes an assessment of the significant estimates policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the parent Report of the Remuneration Committee that is described as having Company Financial statements, and of whether the accounting been audited.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently We have reported separately on the group Financial statements applied and adequately disclosed.
of logicaCMg plc for the year ended 31 december 2007.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance the directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the that the parent Company Financial statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee and the parent Company Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited are free from Financial statements in accordance with applicable law and united material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Kingdom accounting standards united Kingdom generally accepted or error.
in forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy accounting practice are set out in the statement of directors of the presentation of information in the parent Company Financial responsibilities.
statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial to be audited.
statements and the part of the Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and international standards on auditing uK and in our opinion: ireland.
this report, including the opinion, has been prepared for the parent Company Financial statements give a true and fair and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with view, in accordance with united Kingdom generally accepted section 235 of the Companies act 1985 and for no other purpose.
accounting practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for 31 december 2007: any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our the parent Company Financial statements and the part of the prior consent in writing.
Report of the Remuneration Committee to be audited have been We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company properly prepared in accordance with the Companies act 1985: and Financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent the information given in the Report of directors is consistent with Company Financial statements and the part of the Report of the the parent Company Financial statements.
Remuneration Committee to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of directors is consistent with the parent Company Financial statements.
the information given in the Report of directors includes that specific information presented in the market and Financial review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Report  LLP of the directors.
Chartered accountants and Registered auditors in addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has london not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the 20 March 2008 information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company Financial statements.
the other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief executives review, the market and Financial review, the Report of the directors, the Corporate social responsibility statement and the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial statements.
our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
