Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Financial statements and notes Independent auditors report to the We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider members of LogicaCMG plc whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, We have audited the Group Financial statements of LogicaCMG plc for the Chief Executives review, the Financial review, the Report of the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the consolidated the Directors, the Corporate social responsibility statement and income statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements cash flow statement and the related notes.
These Group Financial or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial statements.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial Basis of audit opinion statements of LogicaCMG plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and on the information in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group Financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group the Group Financial statements in accordance with applicable law Financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial statements in information and explanations which we considered necessary in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, assurance that the Group Financial statements are free from material including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the presentation of information in the Group Financial statements.
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose Opinion hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent In our opinion: in writing.
the Group Financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group Financial state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the and cash flows for the year then ended: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report the Group Financial statements have been properly prepared in of the Directors is consistent with the Group Financial statements.
The accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS information given in the Report of the Directors includes that specific Regulation: and information presented in the Financial review that is cross referred the information given in the report of the Directors is consistent from the Business review section of the Report of the Directors.
with the Group Financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the  LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal London control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 20 March 2008 effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
