42 Consolidated Financial Statements Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Luminar plc We have audited the Group financial statements We report to you our opinion as to whether the BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION of Luminar plc for the year ended 1 March 2007, Group financial statements give a true and fair We conducted our audit in accordance with which comprise the Consolidated Income view and whether the Group financial International Standards on Auditing UK and Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the statements have been properly prepared in Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Net accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of Debt statement, the Consolidated Statement of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report evidence relevant to the amounts and Change in Shareholders Equity, the Principal to you whether in our opinion the information disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It Accounting Policies and the related notes.
These given in the Report of the Directors is consistent also includes an assessment of the significant Group financial statements have been prepared with the Group financial statements.
The estimates and judgements made by the Directors under the accounting policies set out therein.
information given in the Report of the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial includes that specific information that is crossstatements, and of whether the accounting We have reported separately on the parent referred from the Business Review section of the policies are appropriate to the Groups Company financial statements of Luminar plc for Report of the Directors.
circumstances, consistently applied and the year ended 1 March 2007 and on the adequately disclosed.
information in the Directors Remuneration In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Report that is described as having been audited.
we have not received all the information and We planned and performed our audit so as to explanations we require for our audit, or if obtain all the information and explanations which RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF information specified by law regarding Directors we considered necessary in order to provide us DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS remuneration and other transactions is not with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the disclosed.
assurance that the Group financial statements Annual Report and the Group financial are free from material misstatement, whether statements in accordance with applicable law We review whether the Corporate Governance caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In and International Financial Reporting Standards Statement reflects the Groups compliance with forming our opinion we also evaluated the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are the nine provisions of the Combined Code overall adequacy of the presentation of set out in the Statement of Directors 2003 specified for our review by the Listing information in the Group financial statements.
Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial OPINION consider whether the Boards statements on statements in accordance with relevant legal and In our opinion: internal control cover all risks and controls, or regulatory requirements and International form an opinion on the effectiveness of the I the Group financial statements give a true and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This Groups corporate governance procedures or its fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted report, including the opinion, has been prepared risk and control procedures.
by the European Union, of the state of the for and only for the Groups members as a body Groups affairs as at 1 March 2007 and of its in accordance with Section 235 of the We read other information contained in the profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
Annual Report and consider whether it is We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or consistent with the audited Group financial I the Group financial statements have been assume responsibility for any other purpose or statements.
The other information comprises properly prepared in accordance with the to any other person to whom this report is only the Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS shown or into whose hands it may come save the Business Review, the Corporate Social Regulation: and where expressly agreed by our prior consent Responsibility statement, the details of the Board I the information given in the Directors Report in writing.
of the Directors, the Corporate Governance is consistent with the Group financial Statement, the Remuneration Report and the statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material  LLP inconsistencies with the Group financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend London to any other information.
