84 Company Financial Statements Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Luminar plc We have audited the parent Company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, OPINION statements of Luminar plc for the year ended the Company has not kept proper accounting In our opinion: 1 March 2007, which comprise the Balance records, if we have not received all the I the parent Company financial statements give Sheet, the Principal Accounting Policies and the information and explanations we require for our a true and fair view, in accordance with United related notes.
These parent Company financial audit, or if information specified by law regarding Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting statements have been prepared under the Directors remuneration and other transactions is Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs accounting policies set out therein.
We have also not disclosed.
as at 1 March 2007: audited the information in the Directors I the parent Company financial statements and We read other information contained in the Remuneration Report that is described as having the part of the Directors Remuneration Annual Report and consider whether it is been audited.
Report to be audited have been properly consistent with the audited parent Company prepared in accordance with the Companies We have reported separately on the Group financial statements.
The other information Act 1985: and financial statements of Luminar plc for the year comprises only the Highlights, the Chairmans I the information given in the Directors Report ended 1 March 2007.
Statement, the Business Review, the Corporate is consistent with the parent Company Social Responsibility statement, the details of the financial statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF Board of the Directors, the Corporate DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Governance Statement, the unaudited part of  LLP The Directors responsibilities for preparing the the Remuneration Report and the Report of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Directors.
We consider the implications for our London Report and the parent Company financial report if we become aware of any apparent 16 May 2007 statements in accordance with applicable law misstatements or material inconsistencies with and United Kingdom Accounting Standards the parent Company financial statements.
Our United Kingdom Generally Accepted responsibilities do not extend to any other Accounting Practice are set out in the information.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company We conducted our audit in accordance with financial statements and the part of the Directors International Standards on Auditing UK and Remuneration Report to be audited in Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of requirements and International Standards on evidence relevant to the amounts and Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including disclosures in the parent Company financial the opinion, has been prepared for and only for statements and the part of the Directors the Companys members as a body in Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also accordance with Section 235 of the Companies includes an assessment of the significant Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, estimates and judgements made by the Directors in giving this opinion, accept or assume in the preparation of the parent Company responsibility for any other purpose or to any financial statements, and of whether the other person to whom this report is shown or accounting policies are appropriate to the into whose hands it may come save where Companys circumstances, consistently applied expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the We planned and performed our audit so as to parent Company financial statements give a true obtain all the information and explanations which and fair view and whether the parent Company we considered necessary in order to provide us financial statements and the part of the with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Directors Remuneration Report to be audited assurance that the parent Company financial have been properly prepared in accordance with statements and the part of the Directors the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you Remuneration Report to be audited are free whether in our opinion the information given in from material misstatement, whether caused by the Report of the Directors is consistent with fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming the parent Company financial statements.
The our opinion we also evaluated the overall information given in the Report of the Directors adequacy of the presentation of information in includes that specific information that is crossthe parent Company financial statements and the referred from the Business Review section of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Report of the Directors.
