Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Anglo American plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as the Financial statements of Anglo American plc for the year described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated income with the audited Financial statements.
We consider the implications statement, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements flow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income or material inconsistencies with the Financial statements.
and expense, the Reconciliation from EBITDA to cash inflows from continuing operations, the Accounting policies, the related notes 2 to Basis of audit opinion 42 and the Company balance sheet and related notes.
These Financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant report that is described as having been audited.
to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our directors in the preparation of the Financial statements, and of whether audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Companys members those matters we are required to state to them circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
European Union, and for preparing the Company financial statements and the Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and Opinion United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally In our opinion: Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, directors responsibilities.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 Our responsibility is to audit the Financial statements and the part of and of its profit for the year then ended: the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the UK and Ireland.
IAS Regulation: the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting give a true and fair view and whether the Financial statements Practice, of the state of the parent Companys affairs as at and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been 31 December 2007: properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration whether, in addition, the Group financial statements have been report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Companies Act 1985: and We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given the information given in the directors report is consistent with in the directors report is consistent with the Financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the operating and financial review that is cross referred from the business review section of the directors report.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has London not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information 19 February 2008 specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
86 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
