Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marshalls plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company We report to you our opinion as to whether the Financial Statements the Financial Statements of Financial Statements give a true and fair view and Marshalls plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 whether the Financial Statements and the part of the which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance been properly prepared in accordance with the Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Expenses, the Parent Company Reconciliation of We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the Movement in Shareholders' Funds and the related information given in the Directors' Report is Notes.
These Financial Statements have been consistent with the Financial Statements.
The prepared under the accounting policies set out information given in the Directors' Report includes therein.
We have also audited the information in the that specific information presented in the Chairmans Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Statement and the Operating and Financial Review having been audited.
that is cross referred from the Business Review Section of the Directors' Report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been Company has not kept proper accounting records, if undertaken so that we might state to the Companys we have not received all the information and members those matters we are required to state to explanations we require for our audit, or if them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
information specified by law regarding Directors To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a We review whether the Corporate Governance body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the Statement reflects the Companys compliance with opinions we have formed.
the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Respective responsibilities of Directors Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does and Auditors not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks The Directors responsibilities for preparing the and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Annual Report and the Group Financial Statements in of the Groups corporate governance procedures or accordance with applicable law and International its risk and control procedures.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company Financial Statements and the Directors We read other information contained in the Annual Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable Report and consider whether it is consistent with the law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally audited Financial Statements.
We consider the Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the implications for our report if we become aware of any Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 38. apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do Our responsibility is to audit the Financial Statements not extend to any other information.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
58 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 the Parent Company Financial Statements and Basis of audit opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We conducted our audit in accordance with be audited have been properly prepared in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the information given in the Directors' Report is includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence consistent with the Financial Statements.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and KPMG Audit Plc judgements made by the Directors in the preparation Chartered Accountants of the Financial Statements, and of whether the Registered Auditor accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups 1 The Embankment and Companys circumstances, consistently applied Neville Street and adequately disclosed.
Leeds 7 March 2008 We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 59
