Annual Report and Financial Statements Chief Executives Review I am pleased to report our achievements in 2002, a year in which we continued to invest in the business and generated over 32m of profits and 46m of cash from operations.
2002 has, however, been a difficult year, particularly in the second half, and as always, we have maintained our close control over costs.
We started the year with 2,657 fee generating and support staff operating from 109 offices in 14 countries.
Early in the year we extended our geographical coverage by opening offices in Sweden and Belgium.
By 31 December 2002 we had lowered the number of fee generating and support staff to 2,390 and with the reduced headcount, taken the opportunity to rationalise some of our properties whilst maintaining our market presence.
At 31 December 2002 we have 107 offices in 16 countries.
With the reduced staff levels and after taking account of pay awards in line with inflation made to staff in January 2003, our pre bonus cost base as we start 2003 is just over 12m per month.
Operating profits were lower at 20.5m 2001: 35.0m before exceptional items.
Activity in the UK operations was relatively even during the first half of the year but slowed, particularly into the fourth quarter, as the pick up from the usually quiet summer months was less significant than in previous years.
During 2002 we increased our market presence largely by expanding the non-finance disciplines into existing offices.
The Retail and Legal businesses now each operate from seven locations throughout the country.
The newer disciplines of Human Resources and Engineering now operate from four and three locations respectively.
The revenues of the finance and accounting businesses of Michael Page Finance, Michael Page City and Accountancy Additions, which generate approximately two thirds of UK revenue, were 19% lower than in 2001.
The weakest client sector of these businesses has been financial services, particularly in the City, where many institutions have shed staff and imposed hiring freezes.
Accountancy Additions, which specialises in lower level accounting positions, has been least affected by the slowdown.
We continue to expand this business with new openings in Birmingham and Coventry.
These offices represent the start of a planned network of offices throughout the Midlands.
The revenues of the Michael Page Marketing, Michael Page Sales and Michael Page Retail businesses, which generate approximately 22% of UK revenue, were 22% lower than in 2001.
Marketing and Sales, which initially suffered from the downturn in the telecoms and technology sectors, have experienced a weakening in most other sectors.
The Retail business has performed better, in line with the general retail sector.
Of the smaller UK businesses Michael Page Technology, not surprisingly given the depressed IT market, was the weakest performer but was still profitable, which we believe is an achievement given current conditions.
Michael Page Legal, whilst revenue was lower than in 2001, recorded a stronger second half of 2002.
The newer businesses, Michael Page Human Resources and Michael Page Engineering both grew revenue in the year and increased their market presence.
All of these businesses provide growth opportunities as they expand into the national network of Michael Page offices.
The Central London Michael Page businesses currently operate from three main locations.
The lease of one of these premises has recently expired and consequently at the end of the first quarter of 2003 we will be completing a significant relocation of fee earning and support staff to a new building in Bloomsbury Square.
Capital expenditure associated with the new building will be 2.0m in 2003.
Michael Page International plc - 3 Annual Report and Financial Statements Chief Executives Review Continental Europe In our Continental European businesses turnover was 17.4% lower at 127.6m 2001: 154.3m and revenue 27.6% lower at 66.3m 2001: 91.6m.
The downturn in activity, particularly in the second half of the year, has been more pronounced in Continental Europe where a greater proportion of permanent placements are made on a retained basis compared to the UK where the majority of assignments are on a contingent basis.
The downturn in activity combined with start up losses in Sweden and Belgium resulted in lower operating profits of 5.6m 2001: 22.5m before exceptional items.
France, our second largest geographic market after the UK, has been a particularly tough market with revenue from permanent placements 39.4% lower than 2001.
Page Interim, the temporary business, performed better with temporary placements again proving more resilient in depressed markets.
During the year we started Michael Page Conseil, a business providing consultants to clients on a contract basis but, unlike our temporary business, the consultants are employees of Michael Page.
At 31 December 2002 we employed 105 consultants and they are included as a separate category of staff in our total number of employees.
During the year we opened new offices in Rotterdam, Stockholm and Brussels.
Page Interim has also been extended to Germany and The Netherlands.
Asia Pacific Turnover for the Asia Pacific operations was 9.0% lower at 46.7m 2001: 51.3m and revenue was 7.9% lower at 22.9m 2001: 24.9m.
These amounts include a full years contribution from our Tokyo office, which opened in June 2001 and significantly exceeded our expectations by almost breaking even for the year.
The lower revenues in the remainder of the region resulted in operating profit reducing to 6.8m 2001: 7.2m before exceptional items.
In Australia the economy has been stronger than in any of our other major markets.
However, the global economic slowdown has reduced demand from a large number of our international clients particularly in the banking and financial services, telecoms and IT sectors.
This affected our offices in Sydney more so than in Melbourne and Perth where there is a greater proportion of domestic clients.
During the year we extended the number of disciplines by starting Human Resources in Sydney and Melbourne, and Engineering in Melbourne.
Our businesses in Hong Kong and Singapore are both heavily dependent on international banking, telecoms and IT clients.
Activity levels, particularly in banking, were very low at the start of the year but improved from the end of the first quarter.
We are greatly encouraged by the success of our Tokyo office, which generated over 1m of revenue in the year.
Further cautious expansion of our staff numbers is planned for 2003.
The Americas Turnover for the region was 5.4m 2001: 4.5m and revenue increased to 4.1m 2001: 3.9m.
The increased revenue was insufficient to prevent the region reporting a further operating loss of 0.7m 2001: 0.7m loss before exceptional items.
In the USA we increased our presence by opening an office in New Jersey at the end of 2001.
However, 2002 has proved to be another difficult year and we have not progressed as well as planned.
Consequently there were a number of management changes during the summer, including the transfer of one of our most experienced senior executives to New York, as Managing Director.
We remain fully committed to the US market and anticipate opening a third office on the East coast during the course of 2003.
Our office in Sao Paulo, Brazil continues to grow and we have now started to develop the market in Rio fide Janeiro.
The continued weakening of the Brazilian currency has limited the impact of this growing business on the Groups results.
4- Michael Page International plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Chief Executives Review New IT system We have been reviewing our main recruitment software and systems since early 2000.
Having completed a thorough review of all possible solutions, we have selected a new system which will be implemented globally throughout 2003 and 2004.
The cost of the software, hardware, data conversion and training of all our staff will require an investment of approximately 6m, of which 2.5m will be capital and 3.5m expensed over the twoyear period.
The implementation of the new system is a further demonstration of our long-term approach which, while impacting short-term profitability, will ultimately improve consultant productivity, our services to clients and candidates, as well as providing the platform to support the growth of our business.
Outlook and strategy I make no apology for virtually repeating what I said in my review last year.
I believe it is one of the Groups greatest strengths that we pursue a consistent approach to managing the business.
Our overall strategy remains unchanged.
We intend to stay focused on our core competency of specialist recruitment and to grow the Group organically by the expansion of our existing businesses in their local markets, introducing new disciplines in existing geographic markets and by entering new geographic markets.
The main resources we require to achieve our objectives are our people.
This is why we invest heavily in their development and training at all levels.
We are committed to maintaining a level of resource that will enable us to maintain our market presence and provide the high standards of service expected by both clients and candidates.
Whilst affecting profitability in the short-term, this will ensure that we have the resources to continue the organic development and growth of the Group.
The short-term outlook suggests that 2003 will be another challenging year and rigorous cost control remains imperative.
We are determined however, not to enhance short-term profitability at the expense of the Groups long-term prosperity.
We remain focused on our core competency of specialist recruitment and are convinced that when conditions improve there are numerous opportunities to profitably expand our business.
Terry Benson Chief Executive 26 February 2003 Michael Page International plc - 5
