CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Introduction people intensive projects, which is This is my first review as Chief why we disposed of the two capital Executive of MITIE Group PLC and I intensive businesses to their would like to outline my primary goal management teams.
for the Company at the outset.
My aim is for MITIE to become the first The MITIE business model, by its very choice provider of Support and nature, makes considerable demands Building Services to the owners and on individual Managing Directors.
Our occupiers of industrial, commercial planning process revealed a need to and government buildings.
I am release some key people to address confident that we can achieve this the strategic development of the without sacrificing our unique MITIE Group more explicitly.
As a result entrepreneurial culture or the Board approved the buy-in of the compromising on quality.
minority shares in MITIE Managed Services Ltd and subsequently To achieve this aim we decided that appointed Colin Hale, who was a limited amount of restructuring had responsible for building that company, to be effected and have already to the role of Strategic Development taken action to strengthen the Director for the MITIE Group as a Groups competitive position.
We are now better placed to have disposed of the most capital manage change and exploit intensive businesses, namely MITIE development options and new Powered Access Ltd and the Access opportunities as they arise.
Following the buy-in of the minority BUILDING SERVICES DIVISION stake in MITIE Managed Services Ltd, Building Services is made up of we have promoted certain senior Engineering Services, Property people to improve our strategic Services and Access Systems.
Engineering Services Markets Engineering Services continues to The traditional, and often concentrate on building long-term conservative, markets in which MITIE relationships with customers.
used to operate have changed Developing sound collaborative enormously over the last five years.
arrangements based on mutual trust is Pressure to perform has forced our conducive to more successful, stable clients to consider ways of driving and efficient business relationships costs out of their infrastructure and which in turn can lead to better one of the solutions has been to enter financial returns for both parties.
into larger, often national, services contracts for longer periods.
This has These relationships have already been brought a degree of stability to the fruitful and are developing well with markets in which we operate and key clients in specific target markets, better visibility and security of including education, leisure and retail.
earnings to service companies such Supply chain relationships in as MITIE.
framework agreements have enabled negotiated reductions in our tender A further development, particularly costs whilst protecting our margin.
in Building Services, is the welcome growth of less adversarial relationships Engineering Services is in the forefront arising from the formation of joint of the new way of doing business.
It ventures, partnerships and framework has embraced the customer-oriented agreements with our clients.
This new culture developed in our Support way of doing business provides Services Division and rejected the tremendous opportunities for traditional confrontational and companies within MITIE.
The great litigious attitudes of the Construction strengths of MITIE companies include Industry.
The ability to operate not only the unique equity ethos, anywhere in the UK and the hardwhich motivates all concerned to earned reputation for consistent achieve ambitious targets, but also excellence in delivery help greatly as the pool of skilled and semi-skilled more national contracts are offered.
This is There is considerable potential to the envy of their competitors in the grow the business further.
present climate of skills shortages.
I strongly believe that our core The discipline has already secured skills are in the management of 75% of its budgeted turnover for the 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT current year, such orders coming as a SUPPORT SERVICES DIVISION result of highly selective marketing.
The Division consists of Engineering Understandably, it remains optimistic Maintenance, Cleaning and about its prospects for the Managed Services.
Engineering Maintenance Property Services Engineering Maintenance has Customers continual drive to maintained its excellent growth rate.
outsource non-core services has Many new orders were received, created a vibrant market for Property including a national contract for Rolls Services, which is in a strong position Royce.
All major contracts due for through being able to offer a broad renewal were retained, with others range of skills and deliver a quality such as Nokia extended to operate product by means of a directly on a national basis.
There is no shortage of work.
The skill Repeat business accounted for 60% of lies in picking the right contracts as turnover with the remainder coming more and more clients expect the from new clients, who have, in service provider to accept greater particular, wanted us to take on multioperational risk.
Securing good service refurbishment projects.
engineers with commercial acumen is Refurbishment capabilities have been a major restricting factor in this fast expanded considerably and Property growing market, estimated to be 3 Services is one of the countrys billion, of which MITIE Engineering leading organisations in this field.
This Maintenance Ltd has at present a has been achieved by selective share of only around 2%.
tendering, a highly incentivised management team and an Engineering Maintenance continues experienced and well-trained labour to be a good example of the force.
Performance has been efficiencies of the MITIE business improved by tight cost controls and model, with a commendable record by ensuring that quality is delivered of profitable growth.
In addition to the first time, largely eliminating the costs services it provides, its strengths of re-working.
We are developing include its operational management, better ways of working together with IT, reporting and client liaison skills.
It our customers for mutual benefit.
has an excellent record in Health & Safety, which gives confidence to Property Services has an infrastructure existing and prospective customers.
in place to manage growth wherever there are opportunities and to widen Managed Services the range of services.
Managed Services is the facilities management arm of MITIE and brings Access Systems together the service offerings of all MITIE Generation Ltd, our remaining disciplines in the Group.
During the plant company, is a well-respected year there was a substantial increase hire and sale business with a good in turnover.
A notable contract was range of scaffolding products and a started with Standard Chartered well-motivated staff.
With a greater Bank, which is for a term of five years management emphasis on national with a total value of some 30 million.
I accounts, it has increased its sales am particularly happy to announce force and also formed alliances with that the original five year contract suppliers to increase turnover and with Land Securities Trillium for the margin.
New products have been Department of Work and Pensions launched and the search continues estate was extended for a further 10 to find innovative, cost-saving years: MITIEs first 100 million contract.
equipment that will appeal to buyers and hirers alike.
MITIE Business Services Ltd has also done well, winning new contracts with A reorganisation of the discipline the London Stock Exchange and followed the sale of the other capital Barclays Bank in Canary Wharf, which intensive businesses.
A graduate of should provide an excellent entre our own MBA course at Henley into that exciting business community.
Management College, Mark Clifford, This is the reprographics and has been appointed head of this document handling business, which discipline.
also provides reception, telephonist and messenger services.
It also has an 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT important role in the contract with Service Awards, for the contracts at Standard Chartered Bank, which the Palace of Westminster and the illustrates yet another example of British Airways London Eye.
brought the number of such awards won over the past five years to nine Many of MITIE Managed Services Ltds and gained further public recognition competitors appear to have geared of our drive for quality.
themselves exclusively for PFI involvement, perhaps at the expense MITIE Catering Services Ltd continued of attention to the Private Sector, to trade satisfactorily during the year where we continue to develop our following the award of a number of business profitably.
Managed Services high profile contracts.
Its has exploited the synergy between management has been strengthened disciplines and has the advantage of by the appointment of a senior a wide range of services, each of industry professional, Robin Hay, as which is capable of finding the entry Managing Director.
point for the subsequent delivery of many other services.
MITIE Managed Conclusion Services Ltd has an experienced MITIE is now even more a servicemanagement team that is selective oriented company than this time last and cautious about the work it year, having disposed of most of its undertakes.
It has achieved an capital intensive businesses.
It has enviable track record of profitable greater forward visibility of earnings as growth.
a result of longer, larger contracts and an encouraging order book going Cleaning forward.
The cleaning industry is no exception to the changing way in which We are better organised to address business is being procured.
Big the issues of longer term growth and companies are asking for additional to develop new services to meet services to be provided in order to customers requirements.
The increase reduce their supply chain and to in cash resources of 13.4m from the become more efficient, a process recent disposals is available to grow known as bundling services.
MITIE the business as and when the right Cleaning is therefore consolidating its opportunities arise.
existing relationships, as contracts move from a three year average to a Above all, after a period when others five to ten year average duration.
down-sized their workforces and outsourced their services, it has a MITIEs own multi-skilled offering and substantial resource in the form of a avowed intention to maintain service pool of skilled and motivated quality continue to help to win large management and labour, in trades contracts.
MITIE Cleaning has had a and professions that are in great particularly good year in the Midlands demand.
and in London, where further good prospects have arisen out of a My first year as Chief Executive has valuable flagship contract with a been busy and demanding.
I am major financial institution that is a fortunate to have experienced benchmark for our service delivery.
executive colleagues who are not only well-respected as proven Margins were slightly impacted by the performers but are, I believe, sheer size and scale of the start-up individually the best in their fields.
It, costs incurred in the mobilisation of therefore, gives me great confidence some very large new contracts, for for the future that the opportunities example RBS NatWest and the provided by the market and the additional 30 sites gained in the commitment and the passion of national contract with BAE Systems.
everyone within MITIE will combine to This is a normal feature of our drive the next stage of growth.
The situation improved in the second half as these contracts settled into their expected performance pattern.
Our Cleaning companies received a Winning with People Award in London Ian R. Stewart and two more Kimberly Clark Golden Chief Executive 6
