N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 4 Chief Executives review One to one Building meaningful relationships 4 N Brown Group plc N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 5 N Brown Group plc 5 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 6 Chief Executives review One to one: The better we know our customers, the more we understand what they want.
Thats why weve developed a substantial database of customer information.
By applying our sophisticated data modelling techniques to this information, we can offer our customers the products and services they want, when they want them.
This is the key to building meaningful relationships with our customers.
The result is that our sales efforts are targeted, our credit management is stronger and our cost structure is more efficient.
Trend in home shopping turnover 25 Total home shopping market UK N Brown home shopping Jim Martin 0 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 6 N Brown Group plc % Change in turnover N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 7 Chief Executives review Our emphasis this year has Market and competition footwear will continue to be the and invested in offers to slightly been to increase average Against our turnover increase of main product groups we use when younger customers with the launch customer spending from a 12% there has been little or no recruiting a new customer, of a new catalogue this season wider range of products and sales growth in the overall home although there is a wider range known as Simply Yours.
to grow the size of our customer shopping market this year, where of affinity products and services database.
In addition, our there is a continuing shift from which can be offered as the We have continued to increase complementary fulfilment and traditional agency catalogues relationship develops.
our marketing investment in the financial services divisions towards the direct approach used younger sector of the market of were repositioned to take full by N Brown.
We are confident that Brands customers between 30 and 45 advantage of their potential.
there is scope to further increase The broadening and balancing years of age, and have had another our share of the 10bn home of our portfolio of brands continues strong year with turnover up by I believe the management team has shopping market.
24% to 95m, representing 22% delivered these strategies and I am of total home shopping turnover.
delighted to report that turnover for At the same time we are mindful of The largest group of catalogues This sector is served by Simply Be, the year is up by 14.2% to two key emerging factors on the serves customers aged between a specialist brand offering larger 449.0m and profit before tax is High Street, the resurgence of 45 and 65 years and turnover in fashion for outgoing women aged up by 12.4% to 58.5m.
These and some familiar household names this category has increased by between 35 and 45 years and all other comparisons in this review and the growth of the value 8% to 292m, now representing which has gone from strength to are made against a like with like retailing sector.
Whilst our 67% of total home shopping sales.
strength with sales up by 81% to 52 week period last year.
catalogues have always been rated These catalogues are well 15m.
In addition, Fashion World, well by our customers in terms of positioned to take advantage of again offering larger fashion for Home shopping offering good value for money, we the growing numbers and affluence customers in their forties but will continue to drive down of those in this age group.
Within serving a more conservative Financials operating costs and search out new this wide age range, however, customer, has grown by 18% Operating profit increased by and better value sources to enable there are quite different types of in the year to 53m.
We are re- 13% to 63.2m, representing us to maintain our competitive consumers who, if we are to meet positioning Classic Confidence, a margin of 14.5%, slightly ahead edge.
As far as our target audience their expectations, need to receive originally launched in 1995 on of last year.
The gross margin is, is concerned, all trends point to an catalogues with propositions that the back of some ground breaking as expected, 0.3% below last year research to better understand the ageing and larger sized population have been tailored to their at 56.1%, with most of this with more people coming into the particular requirements.
size and shape of larger women.
reduction due to the growing 40 plus age bracket.
Customers aged around 50 proportion of sales of lower have quite different needs and We also have a group of margin household and electrical We believe that a portfolio of aspirations to those who are ten catalogues which address the products.
Selling and administration brands primarily aimed at women years older.
Whilst protecting this needs of our more elderly costs as a percentage of turnover aged 40 to 65, who are looking for core traditional market served customers, many of whom are in are 0.3% down on last year and clothing in sizes 16 and above, will by catalogues such as Ambrose retirement.
The principal catalogue there is a useful but smaller relative reduction in the costs become even more relevant in the Wilson, J D Williams and is Special Collection, featuring of distribution.
Clothing and Oxendales, we have developed mainly womenswear, menswear SALES TO YOUNGER 25 MILLION 13 BILLION 13 MAIN BRANDS CUSTOMERS UP 24% CATALOGUES PUBLICATION TO CHOOSE FROM TO 95 MILLION DISTRIBUTED PAGES PRINTED N Brown Group plc 7 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 8 Chief Executives review Size matters Changing with our customers 32 30 28 26 24 22 20 18 16 8 N Brown Group plc N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 9 38 36 34 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 10 Chief Executives review Size matters: We know what the future holds, and its several sizes larger than today.
Lets not beat about the bush, the population is getting older and as a result people are getting, well, bigger.
Its a growth demographic we cant ignore.
Consequently some of our sizes go up to 38 rather than the usual 18.
In fact we aim to dominate the growth area of sizes 16 to 22.
We specialise in focusing on this group of customers.
And its not just women our mens clothing ranges are equally ample.
Our specialism is in the size 16 market.
We are well positioned to take advantage of the forecast increase in the size of the female population age 40 over the next five years.
see population chart Forecast female population growth 2001-2006 Proportion of expenditure on larger sized dresses by age group 16 65 0 0 35-44 45-54 55-64 65 0-25 25-34 35-44 45-54 55-64 65 0-34 Age Group Age Group 10 N Brown Group plc % Increase in population growth % Expenditure on 16 size dresses N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 11 Chief Executives review and footwear.
Total sales to this womenswear products, although content, quality and cost are critical in line with competition, season, group of customers increased dresses and coats have had a in this high volume production stock and customer needs.
Our in-house design and sales comprise 8% of total turnover print buying teams have introduced - TV press Further work is being undertaken and increased by 9% to 36m.
new processes and buying National TV and press advertising to refine our brands and, whilst Footwear turnover rose by 6% arrangements, delivering savings in provide the vehicle for most of the core clothing offer will remain to 35m.
both costs and lead-time to market.
In what is becoming a very competitive clearly focused on size, We expect to benefit further from Turnover of household and these initiatives in the coming year.
and crowded environment, we differentiation will also be seen and experienced in service, range electrical products rose to 132m, Sending catalogues to customers continue to look for innovative selection and communication.
up by an impressive 25% on last more frequently than twice a year ways to recruit new customers, We have identified that there are year, a similar rate of growth to the is a growing feature of this channel, whilst focusing on customer lifetime value models and return on still further specific groups previous year.
The share that this using techniques that allow for category represents of home changes in pagination and selling marketing investment.
of customers which we can serve differently and in a better way than shopping turnover has increased prices to reflect seasonal and retail our competitors and we expect new from 24% to 31% over the last phases.
The volume and frequency - The Internet catalogues to be launched in the two years.
The most significant of catalogues can be changed at With a fully integrated transactional relatively short notice to respond website for each of our brands, we coming year.
range within this area is household textiles, with the fastest growing to market conditions, customer are very encouraged at the level Product categories being electrical products.
Whilst preferences and stockholding of Internet sales in what has been Without in any way diluting the gross margins here are generally levels.
a relatively short period since the important position we occupy lower than in clothing, there are launch of the sites.
- Statements in clothing and footwear, it was compensating benefits in lower returns rates, coupled with reduced The monthly statement Accounting for 3% of overall recognised three years ago that expanding our ranges of household process and stockholding costs.
programme provides an ideal sales and up to 13% with some and electrical products presented opportunity to supplement the of our younger customers, the an opportunity to increase the level Channels to market catalogue with regular and more Internet is proving a valuable targeted publications.
Using asset and has delivered turnover of customers spending.
This Contact with our customers is primarily made through the sophisticated modelling techniques of 11.7m last year against strategy has continued to work well during this year and we following key channels: bi-annual linked to customer buying patterns, 2.7m from its first year of are confident that it can be catalogues, monthly statement we are able to present suitable operation.
In general we find developed further.
inserts, TV press advertisements, offers throughout the season, customers who use the web spend as well as tailoring promotions to about 24% more per transaction Internet, call centre and door to door.
than the average customer and The largest product category is womenswear which has increased we estimate that around 25% sales by 7% to 232m, - Catalogues The flexible yet targeted nature of of Internet sales are incremental.
representing 53% of home Bi-annual catalogue sales still this activity will not replace the catalogue but it allows the business To maintain progress with this shopping turnover.
This growth account for just under 50% of total turnover and, as such, timing, to quickly adapt ranges and prices channel, we have recently is broadly spread across all 11 MILLION ITEMS 7 MILLION STOCK ITEMS 40,000 PRODUCT ANNUALISED INTERNET OF MAIL PROCESSED IN THE WAREHOUSE OPTIONS AVAILABLE SALES OF 15 MILLION EACH YEAR N Brown Group plc N Brown Group plc 11 11 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 12 Chief Executives review Wider horizons Making the most of new opportunities 12 N Brown Group plc N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 13 N Brown Group plc 13 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 14 Chief Executives review Wider horizons: The core of our home shopping business lies in clothing and footwear we believe there are plenty of further opportunities in these areas and intend to pursue them vigorously.
At the same time, we recognise that expanding our ranges of non-clothing products will increase the level of customers spending.
After all, we have the details of over ten million customers on our database, of whom over two million buy regularly from us, so why wouldnt we want to present them with extra opportunities?
Increasing share of N Browns household and electrical sales 35 15 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 14 N Brown Group plc % Share of home shopping sales N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 15 Chief Executives review upgraded our websites based time they place their original order.
have contributed to an increase Working closely with First Financial, on customer feedback studies This activity last year delivered in turnover of 41% to 15m, our in-house financial services arm, we plan to further increase the and we expect continued growth turnover of 12m, up by 21% on a reduction in bad debt levels and on the back of improvements the previous year.
At the same time, an encouraging increase in range of credit offers made to in connection speed, ease outbound telemarketing, which operating profit.
customers in the future, including of navigation and product promotes product sales, insurance personal loans.
and warranty sales and handles Customer management Prices debt management calls, has Recruiting and retaining customers - Call centre increased turnover to 15m, up is a key success factor for any There was evidence of High Street Almost 80% of all orders are by 45%.
womenswear prices firming up received by telephone and As recruitment media becomes towards the end of the year and consequently our call centre With all of this technology, data and more crowded and expensive and this was reflected in our business, customers have more choice, it is with an increase of 1% in the operation is critical in terms of both capability, it is important that we sales and service.
We will soon be are mindful of our customers essential we continue to focus second half.
Prices of household moving to a major new call centre reactions and whilst most are our efforts and resources on textiles and electrical products in Manchester which will provide happy with telemarketing, we are promoting products to our existing were up by 13%, although this was capacity for up to 1,000 advisors quick to recognise that there are customer base.
Last year we grew due to more higher priced items our active established accounts being included in the range.
and will enable us to handle more those who are not and we ensure calls in-house in a cost effective their wishes are respected.
Using state of the art corresponding increase of 8% The recent increases in clothing equipment, we are looking forward - Door to door in average spending.
prices are due more to favourable to providing our customers with House of Stirling has a network of currency movements than any relief Credit from the longer term decline in enhanced levels of service which sales staff who sell to customers in should generate better sales their own homes, using catalogues The growing range of products world sourcing prices.
All of featuring an extensive collection of and different customer profiles our customer facing staff are going products drawn from core home demand more choice in our credit through new training and shopping ranges.
Customers terms, to compete with offers normally available for these types development programmes which generally take advantage of the will not only lead to greater convenience of weekly collected of products in the High Street.
technical competence, but will also payments, preferring this method focus on the key areas of tone of to buying from traditional mail New initiatives such as interest voice, customer empathy and first order companies.
free credit to selected customers on more expensive electricals time problem resolution.
The management team has been and fixed credit terms have all New technology will also allow us strengthened across the network helped to increase the average to further develop the success we and the number of sales people debtor balance at the end of the have experienced in order building.
has increased by 29% to 290. year by 15% to 171 on the 1.6m customers operating a This is our ability to sell related Together with an improvement in products to customers at the same productivity levels, these factors credit account.
OVER 2 MILLION OUR CALL CENTRE NEW CALL CENTRE 5 MILLION OUTBOUND ESTABLISHED HANDLES OVER FOR 1000 ADVISORS CALLS MADE BY OUR CUSTOMERS BOUGHT 17 MILLION CALLS OPENS IN 2002 TELEMARKETING TEAMS FROM US LAST YEAR PER ANNUM N Brown Group plc N Brown Group plc 15 15 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 16 Chief Executives review Offering something extra Benefiting from technology 16 N Brown Group plc N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 17 N Brown Group plc 17 N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 18 Chief Executives review Offering something extra: Acquiring and retaining customers is at the heart of what we do.
The ability to increase the amount they spend with us is key to our continued success.
Were investing in the best call handling technology, so that when a customer rings us with an order, our system will suggest other items they may be interested in based on their previous purchases.
This sort of affinity selling can only work if call centre staff have the right information at their fingertips.
And it doesnt stop at call centres the more we know about our customers, the closer we can match our products to their requirements.
Its all about targeting through technology.
Financial services turnover by product category New Graph Unsecured loans 23% 25% Life insurance 46% 52% 5% 12% Home insurance 11% 13% 7% Extended warranty 6% Visa 2001 2002 18 N Brown Group plc N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:49 am Page 19 Chief Executives review been forecast by those clients product categories such as higher arrives to take up the position of Fulfilment to be 45m in their first year of priced electrical items and furniture.
I am confident that This division comprises, Zendor, operation.
As Zendor contracts he will lead the team to even the fulfilment solutions company, normally extend over a three to five Using internal data modelling greater achievements in the future and Eunite, a leading provider of year term, this equates to a total techniques already utilised in home and wish him every success.
multi channel e-commerce retail sales value of approximately shopping, our financial services services.
Both companies have 180m over the life of the division is enjoying strong take-up I have been fortunate to work with experienced a much improved relationship.
rates through both traditional direct some outstanding people in the second half with Zendor making mail campaigns and, more recently, past eighteen years and I would an operating profit of 0.3m, taking Zendor has now worked outbound telemarketing.
Moving like to thank the teams, both past the full year into a small profit of with twelve third-party business to the new call centre will add and present, for their support and 0.1m.
Eunite was affected by the clients from various sectors and capacity to this function and further contribution to the results we have downturn in e-commerce activities is well placed to take advantage systems investment will improve achieved together over that time.
and made an operating loss in the of its internal and external targeting and processing capability.
first half of 0.9m, but this was fulfilment skills.
reduced to 0.6m in the second Operating profit is 2.1m, up half of the year.
Going forward, we see Zendor 27.5% on last year.
This has been becoming more independent, using achieved after absorbing the Jim Martin We plan to merge Zendor and a blend of the groups excess inevitable start-up costs of the Eunite, enabling the combined home shopping capacity and new unsecured lending division.
business to provide totally logistics services provided by The level of bad debts is in line integrated fulfilment solutions external partners.
to clients whilst making savings in overheads for the group.
Financial services Going forward Zendor continues to benefit from the support of its minority Established in 1998, First Financial There is considerable strength in shareholder GE Capital, particularly is near to fully completing its our core home shopping business, in the areas of consumer credit transition from a low cost which operates with an excellent and account management.
brokerage business into a portfolio of catalogues sent direct profitable growth division with to clearly defined groups of Clients, who include Early Learning a broad range of financial products.
customers, many of whom are Centre, Hays Group, New Look, These currently include life part of the growing and more River Island and Toys R Us, are insurance, warranties, affinity credit affluent middle aged population.
pleased with the service that their cards and personal loans.
The fulfilment and financial services customers received from Zendor divisions, which have been created in the notoriously difficult In addition to developing products by leveraging some of our core Christmas period.
In addition, which are sold direct to the home strengths, are also part of our consultancy services have been shopping customer base, First exciting future.
provided to Safeway and Arcadia.
Financial will provide a new range The total retail value of sales which of flexible credit offers for the core Later this year I will become Zendor will fulfil for its clients has home shopping business in new Deputy Chairman when Alan White 14 MILLION PARCELS 29 MILLION ITEMS 1,100 COURIERS IN 9 MILLION RETURNED DESPATCHED LAST PICKED IN THE OPERATION ITEMS REPROCESSED YEAR WAREHOUSE N Brown Group plc 19
