Chief Executives statement experienced and enthusiastic and, through our Joint Boards with This year saw a number of developments within our businesses.
Network Rail, we have endeavoured to ensure that punctuality This statement highlights some of those significant events and becomes a focus for all parties involved in delivering a reliable initiatives which took place alongside further development of the business.
Joint Boards ensure that problematic areas of the network receive specific focus, ensuring engineering works are kept to a minimum.
Throughout our operations safety remains a priority and we continue to develop our business against this background.
We continue to invest in our people and the training of our Travel West Midlands continues to be a high performing staff.
Our new Midland Mainline Customer Service Academy business in terms of the quality of service it provides, value for was opened in April 2002 and all Midland Mainline staff have money it offers its customers and the role it plays within the undertaken training through the facility during the year.
The level of returns we receive from this believe the concept of regional training centres for rail staff is operation are a reflection of the level of service and investment the way forward and will be reviewing a roll-out of this model that we have put into this business over our period of ownership.
to other parts of the Group.
We have an on-going commitment to provide local services Investment continues through orders for new rolling stock.
that meet the needs of the communities we serve.
Our Since privatisation 700m has been spent on new trains for our comprehensive bus network serves the whole West Midlands services and, during the year, as part of Midland Mainlines twopopulation with over 90% of the West Midlands population year franchise extension, we placed an order for a further 23 living within 250 metres of a daytime bus service.
All these trains will be fully in service by 31 January of services operate at intervals of ten minutes or better and 2005.
In addition, earlier this year, 22 new three-car trains, fares remain competitive, being amongst the lowest outside which are expected to come on stream by autumn 2003, were London with a range of travelcards to meet everyones needs.
ordered by ScotRail and the Scottish Executive.
A combination of all these elements ensures continued progress at Travel West Midlands.
Investment in new technology resulted in the further roll-out of the Advantix mobile ticketing technology across all of The launch of Travel Coventry, a sister brand of Travel West the National Express Group train operating companies.
This Midlands, has given the community of Coventry its own branded technology enables customers to buy a range of rail tickets as operation.
This has been supported by the introduction of a well as having access to up-to-date rail information whilst they number of new services illustrating our commitment to provide are travelling.
services that meet the needs of local communities.
During the year we introduced 140 low-floor easy-access buses reducing We have strengthened our trains division management team the average age of the fleet to eight years.
Over half of the fleet to give greater focus to customer operational issues.
We are includes CCTV equipment to improve the safety of our staff delighted that David Franks, who has over 25 years experience and customers.
in the rail industry, joined our rail division from Go-Ahead as Divisional Director North at the beginning of March.
David We were pleased to announce in January this year that we will be responsible for Central Trains, Maintrain, Midland are developing our presence in the London bus market by Mainline, Qjump.
Dominic Booth has been working with Transport for London on the specification and appointed Divisional Director South, responsible for c2c, refurbishment of an existing unused bus facility in south London.
Gatwick, Silverlink, Wagn, Wales & Borders and Wessex.
Both As a consequence of the introduction of the congestion charge, will report to Ian Buchan, Chief Executive of the Trains Division.
new buses to accommodate the growth have been introduced into London.
We will be tendering to run services later this year.
This year has been one of considerable progress for the coach We believe this is a good opportunity for us to broaden our division.
With the launch of the new coach identity in March London bus operations and, if successful in the tenders, this year, the rejuvenated brand is being extended across the we anticipate commencing services in early 2004.
Whilst we have business, on coaches, on marketing literature, the website and at previously had a small presence in the London bus market, our coach stations.
As part of the relaunch, we have simplified the aim is to achieve critical mass.
This new opportunity, combined number of brands within the division particularly on the airport with our current West Midlands and London operations, will services, as we have failed historically to gain the aggregate strengthen our position in the UK bus market.
benefits of running these services.
As the leading train operator in the UK, we are committed Two new coach stations in Manchester and Newcastle have to improving the safety, punctuality and reliability of our opened in the past year.
These facilities mark a step change in services and investing further in our operations through our staff design for coach stations.
We remain focused on improving performance where this lies within our control and endeavour at every opportunity We are very pleased with the progress made in our North to work with Network Rail to address the many infrastructure American operations during the year.
The Stock Transportation issues which exist on the network.
Our management teams are acquisition brought another quality business into the portfolio.
12 National Express Group PLC Stock provides quality services, delivering students to and from school with safety a top priority.
The quality of the workforce and the efficiency of the operations, ensures that this business continues to develop, based on the quality of the proposition rather than the price of the contract.
We were particularly pleased with the progression of the operating margin from this division excluding Stock from 14.1% to 14.6%.
We believe that this approach will ensure the continued retention of existing business and the award of new business.
In our public transit operations, the year was difficult as insurance costs increased.
However, we were re-awarded the largest public transit contract in the USA, in Las Vegas, where ATC is the incumbent operator.
In December, we were disappointed to announce our withdrawal from our Australian train and tram operations.
Moving forward, we continue to operate buses in Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney.
While Australia continues to have high car ownership, new initiatives, such as the provision of specific commuter services from key regional areas into the central business districts, continue to make public transport attractive.
Industrial relations continue to be a strong feature of our industry, regardless of geography.
We have brought innovation to the railway industry through the introduction of long-term agreements which provide stability of services.
These long-term agreements include self-financing elements and productivity improvements.
During the year, two-year and three-year driver agreements have been put in place at Silverlink and ScotRail respectively and, most recently, at Wales & Borders, where a five-year driver agreement has been implemented.
These complement the package put in place at Travel West Midlands Phil White back in 2000.
I am delighted that our staff have risen to the challenges we have faced during the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our customers for their continued support and all our employees for their continuing hard work and commitment.
Phil White Chief Executive National Express Group PLC 13
