04 Novar annual report 2002 Group Chief Executives review Our businesses continue to recover in response to the actions we have been taking.
Costs are coming down, but we continue to invest to enhance our competitiveness.
Our businesses continue to recover in response to the Indalex IAS began to recover in 2002.
Volumes grew 9% actions we have been taking.
New products and in flat markets.
The business continued to invest in safety commercial initiatives are improving our share in markets across the plant network as well as improving the quality, that remain generally soft.
Costs are coming down, but we cost and delivery of our products.
Indalex has started to continue to invest to enhance our competitiveness when benefit from North American sales of product sourced from market demand returns to more normal levels.
Asia Aluminum, our strategic partner and leader in the buoyant Chinese extrusions market.
In 2002 we received Our Intelligent Building Systems IBS businesses have been our first dividend from this investment.
We also supported able to compensate for the contraction we have seen in all Asia Aluminum in the acquisition of two plants in China.
Our Security and Controls business introduced new products and launched new initiatives in Security Printing Services SPS produced another solid our market channels, building further market share on the performance.
Owing to the now discontinued disposal strength of these actions.
Electrical Accessories had a strong process, a number of restructuring actions were delayed.
year with the introduction of a new range of DIY security They are now well under way, but the timing of this action products.
Datacoms markets continue to be depressed and impacted second half profits, which were also affected by are at their lowest levels for many years.
In response, we set up costs for new business wins, along with increased have adjusted our cost base to these market demand levels.
investment in new plant and call centre capacity.
We continue to invest in improving the SPS cost base, opening Our capability in IBS has been strengthened with the two new high capacity plants, closing two smaller plants in acquisition of VisiOprime providing state of the art digital 2002, with a further four plants to close in 2003.
Together with our existing access control continued to generate significant cash flows for the Group.
product suite, this CCTV capability allows us to provide enhanced security solutions to our customers.
All IBS Across the Group, our concentration on cash generation products can now also be offered through Novar Projects, has again produced free cash flows above 50m.
Our launched this year in several markets, to enable us to meet balance sheet remains sound.
the wider needs of larger projects.
This allows us to leverage the strengths of our existing customer and installer relationships across the sector.
05 Novar annual report 2002 Outlook Novar is, of course, affected by what happens to the economies in which we trade.
Current uncertainties make forecasting even more difficult than usual.
We are also facing the prospect of continued weakness in the US dollar impacting reported results and further increases in pension costs.
Our response will be to drive for increased market shares in all three sectors and to continue our cost cutting programme.
This, when taken together with the improvement already achieved should allow us to compensate for any adverse pension and currency effects.
We will also continue to invest in new product and commercial initiatives, and position Novar for strong growth when economic activity returns to more normal levels.
Jurgen Hintz Group Chief Executive 06 Novar annual report 2002 Intelligent Building Systems Hong Kong covered Whether its a complex hazard warning system or building management controller, Novar Intelligent Business Systems connects Hong Kongs commercial hub.
The financial district includes some of the worlds most awe-inspiring buildings, in one of the worlds most memorable skylines.
From the Bank of America Tower the buildings cabling solution to The Center, Novar brands and Ackermann provided office MK Electric, Ackermann, Ega, power and data distribution.
Trend and Brand-Rex work together to supply and maintain For The Landmark building, Hong Kongs finest buildings.
cross-project solutions involved MK Electric, Ackermann and MK Electric supplied and installed Trend Controls Systems whose circuit protection, wiring devices, input included providing controls cable management and datacoms to monitor heating, ventilation to the The Bank of China, while and other building services.
other Novar brands have also been active in this major project.
With these and other projects, Bank of China For example, Brand-Rex installed Novar has Hong Kong covered.
Standard Chartered Bank Headquarters Cheung Kong Center Mandarin Oriental Hotel Citibank Plaza Nine Queens Road HSBC Jardine Hutchison Headquarters House House Bank of America Tower 07 Novar annual report 2002 Intelligent Building Systems Novars Intelligent Building Systems companies supply The product portfolio includes electrical devices, data products and services to the world-wide construction industry.
systems, structured cabling solutions, as well as high Employing some 6,000 people, this sector has outlets for technology solutions for fire detection and alarm, access sales and added value services in over 30 countries from control, energy management and environmental controls, North America through Europe and the Middle East to building management controls and CCTV offerings.
In many of these countries Novar has plants and or development centres driving Customer focus, range, reach and innovation are the for innovation and customer satisfaction.
hallmarks of the Intelligent Building Systems business.
The strength of the business lies both in its global reach The Center and also in its range of solutions for diverse customers including building contractors, private finance initiatives, owner occupiers of commercial, public, retail and industrial premises, commercial landlords and facilities management companies.
International Finance Center Exchange Square The Landmark Hang Seng Bank Headquarters
