Chief Executive Officers review 2002 was a challenging year for our industry and for ARM.
The strength of our Partnership business model and the passion and commitment of our employees, however, enabled us to finish 2002 a significantly stronger company than at the end of the previous year.
Partnerships In 2002, the proportion of licence revenues earned from Our Partnerships continue to be a key ingredient in our existing Partners increased to 89%, from 80% in 2001, commercial success.
During 2002, we signed 33 new and, as our Partner base grows and the number of Partners and 70 new licences: 46 multi-use licences and available products extends, our ability to sign upgrade 24 per-use licences.
Of the 33 new Partners signed and derivative licences will increase.
during the year, 23 took per-use licences through our Foundry Programme.
At the end of 2002, we had 108 The Foundry Programme semiconductor Partners compared with 77 at the end Our Foundry Programme, which we introduced in 2000, of 2001. continued to expand.
Under this Programme, we make our technology available to small fabless companies In the fourth quarter of the year, US-based company companies which do not have the facility to fabricate Flextronics, one of the worlds largest providers of silicon, by licensing it on a per-use basis.
The fabless electronics manufacturing services, became the first companies then have their chips manufactured by licensee in our new Approved Licensing Programme.
one of our Foundry Partners.
During the year, four This enables Flextronics to sub-license ARM products more foundries joined the Programme, making a as part of a wider design services offering.
Significant opportunities exist to license our technology Our first per-use licensee began shipping ARM Powered to new Partners and to license new technology to our devices in the first quarter of 2002: by the end of the existing Partners: for example, in the fourth quarter year the number of per-use licensees shipping product we announced that LSI Logic, Qualcomm and Texas had increased to six.
Four of our 19 cores which are Instruments were among the first five licensees available for multi-use licensing have been introduced of the ARM1136J-S processor, the first core from into the Foundry Programme.
the ARM11 microarchitecture, based on the ARMv6 architecture.
In addition to licensing products on a perWhen we established the Programme, we envisaged use basis, we also license non-Central Processing Units that some per-use licensees would upgrade to multi-use CPUs, which include hardware platforms, application licences and, to date, four have done so.
software, models and peripherals, to new and existing Partners.
The Programmes lower up-front licence fees, but higher per-unit royalties, have attracted a large number The revenue from the licensing of non-CPU technology of Partners and have, therefore, increased the number increased during the year to 12.6 million, compared of licences sold without having an adverse impact on TM with 11.9 million in the previous year.
The PrimeXsys the pricing of our multi-use licences.
Platform, which we launched in 2001, and which enables licensees to improve the time-to-market of their Royalties and unit shipments application solutions, had been licensed to four Partners During 2002, our semiconductor Partners shipped a total by the end of 2002.
During the year, we also announced of 456 million ARM core-based devices, earning total the availability of the PrimeXsys Dual Core Platform, royalty revenues of 26.8 million.
Royalty revenues are which is primarily for use in networking applications.
affected by many factors, including the number of ARM 6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 Partners shipping and the mix of core-based chips being to meet the low-power needs of battery-powered and sold: the newer cores tend to generate higher per-unit high-density embedded applications, and is ideal for payments.
Of all the ARM core-based chips sold, 93% innovative applications in networking, wireless, have been based on ARM7 technology but, as royalties automotive and consumer entertainment.
are earned on more recent ARM9, ARM10 and ARM11 core-based chips, we expect the average royalty per I congratulate the engineers who worked on the chip to increase.
In the longer term, chips sold by perdevelopment of the ARM1136JF-S core, which was use licensees will have a positive impact on the average recently voted IP Processor of 2002, by the analysts royalty rate, reflecting the different business model of Microprocessor Report.
deployed in the Foundry Programme.
During the year, we launched the ARM11 PrimeXsys Royalties are now being earned from products being Platform for wireless applications, and the PrimeXsys shipped in all target end markets automotive, Dual Core Platform for networking applications.
These consumer entertainment, imaging, mass storage, platforms provide system developers with all the microcontrollers, networking, secure and wireless.
hardware, software and verification IP necessary The wireless market, in which we include personal to design a system on chip SoC.
We also announced organisers, continued to be the largest contributor to a technology collaboration, aimed at prolonging the royalty revenues, accounting for approximately 64% battery life of mobile devices, with National 11% of total revenues.
Development Systems Our technology has been licensed to many of the worlds After a very strong start to the year, sales of leading semiconductor companies and many of our Development Systems slowed and ended the year at Partners have demonstrated their confidence in it by 23.1 million, marginally down on the 23.3 million increasing the number of products they license from reported in 2001.
Encouragingly, however, sales of the us.
Around two-thirds of the top 150 semiconductor RealView Development Solution, which is an important companies have not yet, however, licensed our indicator of the level of ARM technology-based technology.
These opportunities that exist, combined development activity, were up year on year.
The with the flexibility of our licensing models and the ARM RealView Development Solution provides a complete total solution offering, combine to give us confidence software development solution for creating applications in the future.
We expect our recently-introduced RealView tools to have a positive effect on sales in 2003.
Revenues from the sales of Development System products illustrate the Warren East Chief Executive Officer global reach of the ARM architecture: 40% are sold in East Asia, 31% in Europe and 29% in the US: 30% of these were sold through our network of distributors.
Product development Research and development continues to be high on our agenda.
ARM was built on innovation and the new and exciting products we develop will be the key to our future success.
Our objective is to deliver competitive advantage to our Partners in all the end markets they target.
In 2002, our investment in research and development increased by 25%, to 48.7 million, and represented 32% of sales.
In the fourth quarter of 2002, we made the first deliveries of the ARM1136J-S core, which is designed ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 7 Review of operations forging relationships The Partnerships we have formed with major Our ARM Technology Access Programme ATAP semiconductor companies, such as Philips, Texas extended and formalised our relationship with design Instruments TI and Toshiba, have served us well and service companies which, by specialising in designing continue to do so.
TI, for example, was one of the first SoC implementations, enable product development licensees of the ARM1136J-S product, while Toshiba and teams to focus on differentiation and adding value.
Philips were two of more than 25 Partners to sign up to We verify that each centre is able to meet the needs provide support and technical contributions towards the of the growing number of our Partners which choose development of the next generation of AMBA 3.0 to outsource all, or part of, their design or manufacturing technology, an established industry methodology for activities.
We introduced a further initiative, our Approved Training Our overriding culture of meeting the markets Centre ATC programme, to extend and formalise existing constantly evolving needs has led us to develop relationships.
This increases the number of organisations a number of different styles of Partnership.
These range which are authorised to provide ARM training.
We give from our original business model, under which we their teaching staff intensive training and monitor license our microprocessor cores, to our Foundry them regularly to ensure that they continue to meet Programme, which was developed to enable smaller, our standards.
fabless, companies to benefit from our expertise.
ARMs many types of Partners include an entire Whereas our larger Partners license our technology community of organisations which align their products on a multi-use basis, the smaller, and typically oneand services around the ARM architecture.
These include product, companies license our IP on a per-use basis.
leading Operating Systems and Real Time Operating They produce silicon through one of our seven Foundry Systems RTOS providers, EDA companies, application Partners wafer fabricators, which hold licences to software providers, and tools developers.
Each manufacture using our cores.
This enables these smaller contributes to our network of Partners by enabling companies to mitigate risk and to bring their ARM a wide range of technology solutions that support the Powered products to market quickly.
development of ARM Powered products.
This makes our architecture one of the most widely supported 32-bit More recently, a newer type of Partner has emerged RISC microprocessor solutions available today.
to participate in the ARM Approved Licensing Programme.
This programme enables Partners As the market evolves, we will continue to create to sub-license ARM core technology and, thereby innovative business models to enable us to take to provide their customers with end-to-end services.
advantage of new opportunities as well as to provide The benefits to these customers, principally original access to our technology for an entirely new generation equipment manufacturers OEMs, of dealing with one of companies.
party for IP, design and manufacturing are lower costs and improved time-to-market.
Our first Partner in this We have a can do culture and have always been new programme is US-based Flextronics Semiconductor.
prepared to find ways to deliver what our Partners need.
Our Subscription Licence model, which we developed for some of our larger Partners, enables them to pay an annual fee and to use our IP during that period.
This saves time and legal costs because Partners are able to access our technology on demand under a single legal agreement.
It also helps us to promote the use of our IP in these companies because it gives development groups which are planning new designs, quick and easy access to our technology.
Above right: Iceberg Alley, off Newfoundland, Canada.
Icebergs are usually found in groups, in which they stay and migrate.
ARMs relationships with its Partners are similarly stable and long lasting.
8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 ARMs Partnership culture has had a major role to play in the Companys success and, in recent years, new and different Partnership models have been introduced to enable more companies to join the ARM community.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 9
