4 CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REPORT Results Kettners restaurant, which we acquired during International In the financial year ended 30 June 2002 the year, has undergone refurbishment work The total of sites outside the UK and and has now re-opened with an enhanced PizzaExpress traded in an increasingly Ireland is 43, consisting of 5 companypizza, hamburger and grill menu.
competitive market and our results, which owned, 2 joint venture and 36 franchised in are summarised in the Finance Directors 17 different countries.
UK and Ireland Pasta restaurants Three company-owned restaurants were Despite the impact of several large rent opened in Spain during the year and 14 UK and Ireland reviews and pre-opening costs for two new franchised locations started trading in PizzaExpress restaurants restaurants, our Caf Pasta restaurants 8 territories.
After an initially slow start, the Turnover increased by 12% in 2002 to produced a similar result to the previous Spanish restaurants are now showing more 195.2m 2001 173.7m, whilst operating year.
More sites are being sought and new encouraging results.
We are currently profits declined by 2% to 40.1m restaurants with the improved Caf Pasta developing the first French company-owned 2001: 41.1m.
menu are being built in York and Clapham.
unit in Toulouse, which will open at the end In addition to the 15 Caf Pasta restaurants, Like-for-like sales fell by 1.5% in the second of 2002 and we have an option over an this division also manages the 5 Gourmet half making the annual like-for-like figure additional location in Spain.
This has been a successful and 1%.
Our pizza restaurants outside London profitable acquisition and due to its success had positive comparable sales 5%, As highlighted at the half year, two we are opening a sixth in Exeter and looking whereas those in London declined compared restaurants were closed and our operations to open more as appropriate locations are to the previous year -3%.
terminated in the USA during the period.
Restaurants over 10 years old produced the The turnover for this division was 3.9m most disappointing performance with Caf Pasta like-for-like sales were 1% for 2001: 2.6m and the net loss for the year like-for-like sales of 3%.
Many of these the year, contributing to a turnover for the was 1.2m 2001: 1.5m.
sites are overdue for complete division of 9.0m 2001: 6.8m and refurbishment and others within the operating profits of 0.2m 2001: 0.2m.
portfolio would benefit from accelerated PizzaExpress To Go improvements.
Therefore an increase in Retail Sales Our first quick service seven day a week unit capital expenditure is planned this year to Our venture with chilled retail products has opened in Paddington station in May and ensure that our restaurants continue to be built on its early success and we are now has got off to an encouraging start.
Our pleasant places to dine, are pleasing on the selling in excess of 140,000 units a week.
second will open in Victoria station in eye and retain their existing customers.
Our Olive oil dressing sales are also very strong Autumn 2002.
We are in negotiations to experience to date with refurbishments of and the introduction of a balsamic-based trial more locations to find out where older restaurants is that like-for-like sales product has extended the range, providing this new form of product distribution performance can be restored to levels the perfect condiment for mixed leaf salads.
consistent with more modern restaurants.
Net profits of 2.2m 2001: 0.7m in this division came from turnover of 4.3m 300 PizzaExpress restaurants were trading at 2001: 1.5m the year-end.
27 new restaurants were Staff opened during the year, nearly two-thirds of The Sunday Times recognised PizzaExpress Initial results from independent research tell which were outside Greater London, and as one of the top 100 companies in the us that our retail sales are having a minimal these restaurants have traded in line with country to work for, the only restaurant effect on restaurant sales and that there are our turnover and profit forecasts.
New concern to make it into the list.
This was a further opportunities for the retail sector restaurant locations included Stamford, result of the many internal initiatives and which will not affect our core market.
We Poole, Petersfield, Uckfield, Alresford and training programmes we run for our 7,000 have taken on an additional retail partner in Alton.
Further restaurants have been added employees.
We intend to recruit more than Waitrose where our pizza products are now to those already present in Edinburgh and 800 staff at all levels this year to fulfil our available in 134 stores.
Dublin, whilst in London we have opened in expansion plans.
All staff receive training Haymarket, Southampton Row and New The combination of an established whether it be in IT, cappuccino making, how Fetter Lane.
We are still seeing good restaurant business and a premium retail to mop a floor, or how best to meet and demand for new restaurants and ten new product, which concentrates on ingredient greet.
Turnover at all levels continues to be restaurants are already under construction.
quality, is proving an exciting development.
5 CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REPORT continued Bonuses are now paid by targeting many These matters are described further in the reassuring position.
In addition, this enables performance criteria, including sales, profit, report of the directors on pages 9 to 11. us to plan to open an increased number of customer satisfaction reports, individual restaurants organically, purchase some restaurant appearance and audits.
existing restaurants if available at Prospects advantageous prices and commence a major Trading in the first two months of the refurbishment of our estate.
The Community financial year ending June 2003 continues to Two of our pizzas now contribute part of be competitive and UK restaurant sales are In the UK competition from other restaurant their sales to worthwhile charities.
During currently running at levels similar to those groups has come and gone since the mid the year we commenced a major seen in the last quarter of the previous 1980s and we have seen demand fluctuate.
programme which enabled both local and financial year.
In and around London like-forIn the past two years, due to supply national charities to make use of some of like sales remain negative, whilst provincial outpacing demand, discounting and fixed our restaurant space: the NSPCC are notable restaurants are seeing sales growth.
price meals have become a feature of high partners in this initiative.
Competition on the high street is likely to street restaurants.
We do not discount, remain tough in the short term.
However, preferring to hold our prices for extended Schools visits to our restaurants spread the we expect the continued strength of our periods as we now have for 15 months.
We message that work can be fun and much of offering combined with the effect of the are looking at other ways to give the the time spent by the 35,000 children can initiatives outlined in the Chairmans Report customers greater value including menu then be linked to national curriculum work.
to stand us well and, in the absence of innovations and restaurant improvements.
These visits provide benefit to both pupils further economic setbacks, we anticipate a and teachers.
modest improvement in restaurant sales Many operators have followed us into the during the course of this year.
Retail sales sector since our flotation in 1993: some through Sainsburys and Waitrose continue have done better than others.
The sector is The Environment to be encouraging.
overcrowded and increasingly price The Company reinforced its commitment to competitive.
Our new restaurants in new its environmental obligations this year, by Over the past three years we have been geographic areas are successful but it does appointing an Environmental Manager and broadening the base of the Group to not take long for three or more other pub, commissioning an Environmental Review of establish growth platforms for many years to pizzeria or noodle operators to open as near all its business activities.
Our home market restaurants, to us as they can.
key priorities upon which to focus - reducing international expansion, PizzaExpress To Go waste, reducing energy use and reducing and retail sales each provide opportunities to This must only serve to sharpen our resolve water use.
extend the reach of the PizzaExpress name to give our customers increased value in and product quality.
terms of food, environment and service.
As a result the Company has introduced several initiatives, one of which being a As a result of our retail distribution, we are glass-recycling programme.
Glass waste now selling many more pizze in the UK than from the restaurant businesses is this time last year and have doubled the David Page now being reused as a building aggregate number of locations where you can Chief Executive in the construction and maintenance of purchase our pizza.
We will continue to roadways.
The first phase of the programme increase the number of distribution channels 10 September 2002 is underway, and it is expected that 70% of over the coming years.
our restaurants will be recycling glass by the end of 2002.
Our headquarters in We believe that future increases in sales and Uxbridge now recycles or reuses all the profit will result from increasing our points waste paper, cardboard and plastic from its of sale and competing more efficiently on offices and warehouse operations.
The product and service standards.
building projects team have for years sought to use fuel sparingly and resource Our balance sheet carries cash in the bank energy-efficient equipment, as it is sensible and amid the turmoil of the last two years both economically and environmentally.
for public companies we feel this is a
