Statement from the Chairman and Chief Executive Another year of good progress In 2002 we made good progress towards our goal of being by 5% to 43.9p 2001 41.9p.
profit before tax was the first choice provider of motoring and vehicle solutions 23.1 million 2001 62.3 million with earnings per share for consumers and businesses.
calculated in accordance with FRS 14 of 8.5p 2001 39.5p.
As a result of strong cashow of 44.2 million, net debt We have increased the proportion of profits derived from reduced to 155.3 million from 199.5 million at the end of more predictable revenue streams, which has improved the 2001.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 13.8p, which quality of our earnings and supported the underlying profit makes the total dividend for the year 23.0 p, an increase of growth of the past two years.
The lifetime revenue of new 5% on 2001.
Our financial results are explained in full in the contract wins in 2003 was 620 million and the total lifetime Financial Review and in the accounts.
value of our long term business grew to 2.83 billion in 2002 2001 2.73 billion.
Operating highlights RAC Consumer Services maintained the growth 2002 saw another milestone in our development as momentum it has established over the past three years, a unique support services company as we renamed the increasing profit to 45.2 million, which now represents company RAC plc to leverage the value of our strongest over half of our underlying PBIT.
We continue to develop the Lex brand in its business to business markets.
In Consumer Services we are growing our customer base, increasing the range and quality of our offerings and We will maintain our growth by building on the strength encouraging more members to buy multiple services from of our brands, our service delivery and our unique motoring us.
We maintained the growth in our customer base in 2002 and vehicle expertise.
Excellent service delivery is all about and now deliver roadside service to 6.5 million consumers people, supported by systems and processes, such as across RAC Consumer Services and RAC Business the CLAS system in Lex Vehicle Leasing and the automatic Solutions.
There is increasing customer loyalty in the despatch system in RAC Operations, both of which were individual membership base, as evidenced by the growing completed in 2002 and are delivering service benets.
number 84% who renewed their membership with RAC Our quality of service has been recognised once again in 2002. with a series of industry awards and commendations for RAC Business Solutions, Lex Vehicle Leasing, RAC In addition we achieved considerable growth in non-roadside Auto Windscreens, RAC Software Solutions and Lex services such as financial, legal and travel services and Auto Logistics.
Revenue from these areas grew by 22%.
Our results for 2002 demonstrate our continued progress, Our investment in customer relationship management with a 4% increase in revenue to 1,508 million, and 8% systems and infrastructure will enable us to understand growth in underlying profit to 70.2 million 2001 more of our customers individual motoring needs and 65.1 million.
Earnings per share on this basis increased provide tailored solutions from our expanding range of 12 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 services.
The systems are already delivering benets been agreed in consultation with Pension Trustees, and, including higher quality information and more effective where appropriate, unions, employee groups and legal direct marketing, and will be fully implemented in the and actuarial advisers: middle of the year.
At present 7% of individual customers buy more than one service: our goal is to increase this to We are maintaining our final salary scheme for existing 15% and the systems will support us in doing this.
and new employees, and extending it to younger employees, who were previously unable to join due We also achieved growth in business services in 2002, to a minimum entry age of 25. increasing revenue and the lifetime value of our long term contracts and maintaining profit.
This is despite the We are increasing Company contributions to the termination of our contract to distribute DAF parts from scheme to reduce the deficit which has arisen as a June 2003 and continuing problems in Lex Mechanical result of falling stock markets.
The deficit under FRS 17 Handling, where we are exploring approaches to create stood at 129 million net of tax at 31 December 2002. value, for example, by reworking our relationship with lift The Company will increase its cash contribution by truck manufacturers.
RAC Business Solutions, Lex Vehicle 2.5 million in the second half of 2003 and by 5 million Leasing, Lex Transeet and Manufacturer Support Services a year thereafter.
The cost of providing pension benets for the future We aim to leverage our strengths by providing additional has increased signicantly.
This is primarily because services to existing customers and by using our unique people are living longer, typically drawing a pension range of skills to supply tailored multi-service solutions for twice as long as they did in the 1960s, which requires for major customers.
For example, we have won new a proportionate increase in funding.
In addition, tax contracts with the Ministry of Defence, including the changes and lower anticipated investment returns renewal of our RAF White Fleet contract, and have are also increasing costs.
To maintain the final salary broadened the range of services we provide to Norwich scheme, we will share the increase in costs with Union.
These developments demonstrate our proven track employees, who will be offered the choice of reduced record of building long term partnerships with customers future benefit levels or increased employee contribution such as these to add substantial value to their organisations.
Pensions These actions will secure the future of our pension scheme, Like many other UK employers, we reviewed our final which provides a valuable benefit to all our people.
The salary pension scheme in 2002 to assess the impact of the changes also provide the exibility for people to choose decline in stock markets over the past three years, and the their preferred level of pension benefit.
They have been increased cost of providing pension benets.
As a result of welcomed by our main union, the Transport and General this review we have taken the following actions, which have Workers Union.
Andrew Harrison Sir Trevor Chinn RAC plc Annual Report 2002 13 Statement from the Chairman and Chief Executive Our people Group Finance Director, Paul Hewitt, will leave the company As a service business, our people are at the heart of our on 31 March 2003 to become Chief Financial officer of the continued success and we are working hard to make RAC Co-operative Group.
We thank Paul for the significant plc one of the UKs best companies to work for.
We believe contribution he has made to the Group over the past four that by inspiring our people they will deliver inspirational years.
We are recruiting for his successor and will make service to our customers, who will consequently stay with an announcement when an appointment is made.
us longer and buy more services, with the end result of growing returns to shareholders.
Providing a competitive Outlook benets package, including our final salary pension The sustained growth and improved quality of earnings scheme: setting out clear values to guide our decisions: we have achieved over the past two years show the and investing in training and communication are important benets of our transformation as a unique support services elements of this.
There is significant opportunity for continued growth in both our consumer and business markets by Employee satisfaction, development and retention are increasing the number of services we provide to our key measures of our success in motivating our people and customers.
Our investments in systems should enhance are monitored as closely as financial measures to keep the our growth potential: the benets are already beginning business on track.
Our businesses are led by a strong and to ow through in terms of service delivery, higher quality experienced team of leaders whose abilities are information and improved sales targeting.
demonstrated by the growth in employee satisfaction we achieved in 2002 in addition to our financial and operating In addition, our strong cash ow has further strengthened progress.
We thank all of our people for their hard work our financial position.
We expect our organic growth to and commitment continue to drive improved performance in 2003.
Our Board Bill Cockburn, Michael Ost and Peter Hickson stood down as non-executive directors in 2002 and we thank them for their contribution over the past nine years.
We welcome Sir Trevor Chinn Andrew Harrison Dianne Thompson and John Poulter, who joined the Board Chairman Chief Executive as non-executive directors.
Alan Bowkett joined the Board on 2 September 2002 but resigned in November.
Peter Smith was appointed Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2003 and will become non-executive Chairman on 1 May 2003, succeeding Sir Trevor Chinn who will retire at the end of April.
