Dividends per share p 13.2p 12.6p 12.0p 2000 2001 2002 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Mike Smith 2002 WAS ANOTHER GOOD YEAR FOR THE RANK GROUP.
OUR ALL ROUND STRENGTH AND SPREAD OF ACTIVITIES ENABLED US TO CONTINUE TO MOVE PROFITS FORWARD AND INCREASE EARNINGS PER SHARE, BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS, BY 21% 65% AFTER EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS This growth was achieved despite the impact of continued difficult trading reduced profits in the major cafe locations, particularly those located conditions for Hard Rock.
We also absorbed considerable pre-opening in tourist destinations.
We also absorbed pre-opening costs associated and launch costs associated with the opening of new facilities across with new cafe openings, mainly in non-tourist locations.
Trading the Group, all of which will contribute to driving future growth.
performance during the final quarter of 2002 was more encouraging, albeit against relatively weak comparative gures for 2001.
Just as importantly, whilst continuing to improve earnings, we have continued our development activities within existing markets We have regularly reviewed our overheads and operating costs as well as extending our operations into new but related markets, in Hard Rock.
Given the continued uncertain trading environment, thereby enhancing prospects for the longer term.
we plan to take further action to reduce costs in the first half of 2003.
Gaming The Gaming division continued its now well-established trend Deluxe of double digit profit improvement with a further gain of 13% Deluxe had an exceptionally good year.
Film processing was outstanding in the year excluding Rank Interactive Gaming.
Grosvenor Casinos with an 8% growth in turnover and 16% growth in profit before enjoyed strong turnover and profit growth despite the absorption exceptional items.
The strong performance in 2002 was assisted by of launch costs for the two Hard Rock casinos and the relocation the full year impact of the new laboratory in Rome and efficiencies of the casino in Brighton.
In Mecca Bingo, we deliberately cut back from the relocated Toronto laboratory.
Media Services also had a good advertising and promotional expenditure in the second half so that, year overall and in particular benefited from the DVD venture with overall, turnover growth was modest but trading margin was strong, Ritek, established in August 2002. supported by the continued success of cashline bingo.
Developments Rank Interactive Gaming, whilst loss-making in its first full year of In Mecca Bingo, the relocation of the Croydon club was completed operation, launched hardrockcasino.
com in July and bore the costs in November 2002 and there are plans for a further two relocations in of considerable new product development.
A new club will also be opened during 2003 in West Bromwich.
rate of stakes placed at year-end was 90m, which represented a high In Spain, we acquired three new clubs during 2002 and continue to rate of growth over the period.
The integration of the recently acquired look for further opportunities in this large and fragmented market.
Blue Square betting business will add further opportunities for growth this year.
Within Grosvenor Casinos, over the last few years we have relocated a total of seven casinos and plans are in place for a further three Hard Rock relocations in 2003.
Grosvenors performance in 2002 is a clear As we had expected, Hard Rock had a difficult year.
Whilst like for demonstration that improving the quality of our facilities, combined like food and beverage sales were a little ahead of 2001, merchandise with gradual deregulation, is a potent mixture for growth.
The two sales continued to suffer from a lack of tourist traffic.
This severely new Hard Rock casinos in the UK offer a greater entertainment 6 The Rank Group Plc
