Chief Executives review Reckitt Benckiser pursues a simple vision: delivering better solutions to consumer needs in household cleaning and health and personal care in order to generate increased shareholder value.
How would you describe the year?
We believe our consistent delivery is due to 2002 was another good year of growth and having a clear vision, a good team, a strong 3% record results.
It was especially good for better culture and a clear strategy.
What is encouraging consumer solutions, as we rolled out a record is that the good 2002 results are part of a longNet revenues for the year grew 3% 7% at constant number of new and better products.
term track record of delivering strong results.
rates to 3,531m Can you give some examples?
Finish 3-in-1 Total or Vanish Action Ball with much It has two components.
First, we aim to deliver better cleaning performance in automatic above industry average net revenue growth.
We dishwashing and fabric treatment.
target to achieve this growth by focusing on the high growth categories in which our top 15 Air Wick Click Spray and CrystalAuto, more 20% Power Brands hold market-leading positions.
convenient and aesthetically pleasing air fresheners for the bathroom and the car.
Many of our core categories, like Air Care, Normalised net income Depilatories, Automatic Dishwashing and grew well ahead of the Veet Mousse, combining the performance industry at 20% to 408m Disinfection, grow faster than the industry of a depilatory cream with the ease of use of average.
Where this growth is combined with a mousse.
good economics and we have an attractive New products launched in the past three years market position, we will drive growth hard now represent 32% of our net revenues, up through innovation and marketing investment.
substantially in the past two years.
Our target is to 38% Yes, but every company talks about hit 40% by the end of 2004 and were well on innovation.
2002 saw net cash flow Maybe, but innovation for us is a systematic part from ordinary operations What do innovations do for the business?
of our growth model for the business, driven by grow by 38% to 576m The success of our innovations creates growth our focus on consumer understanding and insight.
and expands the leadership positions of our top Our success is not down to a few lucky big hits, 15 Power Brands, the core focus of the but to many carefully planned incremental organisation.
2002 saw good market share gains improvements across our portfolio.
As a result, net revenues on the systematic approach and clear visibility of the top 15 Power Brands grew 9%, well ahead of business impact of the innovation pipeline which the Company average and our Power Brands gives us confidence that the model is sustainable.
now represent 46% of the total Company net You mentioned marketing investment?
We invest strongly in good consumer them to be at 50% by 2005. communication through media and other What about the overall figures?
marketing programmes in products where we We exceeded our financial targets for 2002.
Net see strong growth opportunities and good revenues for the year grew by 7% at constant margins.
During 2002 we increased our media exchange to 3,531m.
Reported growth was 3%, investment by 12% and it is now, at around affected by adverse exchange rates.
Normalised 11% of net revenues, one of the highest in the net income grew by 20% to 408m.
This communication not only connects flow generation grew by 38% as we further strongly with our consumers, driving growth, improved profits, cut net working capital and but also builds long-term consumer loyalty, improved our cash management.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 3 Chief Executives review Reckitt Benckiser is already a rewarding company in which to work and to invest.
Our wish is that we make it even more so in the years ahead.
3.5 You said your strategy had two using commonly understood processes and a 3.4 3.2 components?
Within our overall framework Thats right.
Secondly, we aim to leverage our we also trust our people to succeed and give them net revenue growth into even stronger net the freedom to do so.
That trust is why working income growth and strong cash generation for Reckitt Benckiser is uniquely rewarding.
through improving operating margins and cash We also put a heavy emphasis on winning.
explains not just our very performance oriented In 2002 we further improved our operating compensation system, but also our need for high 2000 2001 2002 margins, from 15.3% to 16.3%.
This was due quality people with passionate commitment.
Net revenues bn to a substantial improvement in gross margins What about the future?
and good fixed cost controls.
This is our We are confident our business will sustain growth 16.3 continuing model for the business.
We drive 15.3 based on living our vision, further strengthening gross margins through higher margin 14.1 our team and implementing our strategy better innovations, through reducing costs in raw and each year.
We have an advantage in our focus on packaging materials over time, and through our strong market positions in high growth categories, cost optimisation programmes.
our systematic approach to innovation, our What about cash flow?
ongoing cost optimisation programmes and our Our business is highly cash generative.
relatively low levels of capital investment, while we We were rewarded in 2002 by further positive 2000 2001 2002 continue to increase cash flow from the business total shareholder return in another demanding Operating margins % through optimising net working capital and our year for stock markets in general.
Our goal is to cash management systems.
As a result, we have continue to reward our shareholders, including 576 further increased net cash flow in 2002, driven many of our employees, for their loyalty by down net debt and net interest charges, and delivering consistent financial and business 416 substantially strengthened the financial position of 382 improvement.
Reckitt Benckiser is already a the Company.
rewarding company in which to work and invest.
Our wish is that we make it even more so in the Our vision is to affect the daily lives of people all years ahead.
around the world by giving them better products.
For us, work is not a nine-to-five obligation.
It 2000 2001 2002 colours our lives at home, in the supermarket, Net cash flow from while travelling.
We do truly live our business.
ordinary operations m Throughout this review, youll see many examples of how our lives influence and inspire our work.
Bart Becht Chief Executive Officer 16.3 Reckitt Benckiser people seem passionate 12.1 11.9 about their work.
We recruit carefully, and embed our values deeply inside the Company.
This ensures that we work together in strong teams on aligned objectives 2000 2001 2002 Net cash flow from ordinary operations % Net revenue 4 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 Most directors and managers take running their business seriously.
We dont run the business, we live the business.
Its not that were obsessed with work.
Were Day in, day out, we look for ways to help people deal with their obsessed with consumers.
More than most businesses, ours household duties and health and personal care needs in a way depends on an observation of real consumers.
By understanding that achieves better results or saves time, effort or money.
how people go about the day-to-day business of living, we can To us, achieving these aims is not just our job.
make their lives better and enrich our business.
