CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our corporate philosophy is to deliver long term sustainable Although the trading fundamentals for the U. K. housing market growth and by so doing deliver value to our Shareholders.
The remain sound, the number of new homes constructed by our results for the last twelve months represent our continuing industry is at its lowest level since 1924.
This is principally commitment to that philosophy.
Earnings per share have due to restrictive planning policies which have constrained the increased to 38.5p representing compound growth over the last new homes industry for a number of years.
The recent five years of 30% p. a.
This has been achieved through a announcements by the Government to tackle the growing combination of growth in operating profits which, over that housing shortage are to be welcomed.
However these period, have increased from 35.4m to 94.1m and the announcements must be turned into actions.
For the new successful share buy-back effected in October 2000. homes industry to respond and at the same time address the issues arising from skilled labour trade shortages, it is important Paul L Pedley Chief Executive Our focus on high quality financial returns is equally reflected to embrace new construction practices to facilitate increased within these results.
Return on capital employed, having output whilst improving build quality and speed.
After averaged 28% for the last five years, has increased in the current undertaking extensive research and trials we announced in year to 30% whilst operating margins within the Homes July 2002 the formation with Corus plc of a joint venture Division pre-integration costs are at 17.6%.
The combination company, Framing Solutions plc.
of these financial returns represents one of the strongest performances within our sector.
Redrows financial returns represent one of the strongest within our sector.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 8 Framing Solutions has been funded by an equity investment from both parties of up to 3.0m each and will harness Corus manufacturing skills with Redrows development expertise to provide light steel frames, a viable and sustainable solution primarily targeted at the U. K. residential market.
Initially, light steel frames will be introduced on selected Harwood and Design Scheme developments across the country.
The last twelve months have been a period of significant achievement, with Redrow continuing to recognise its responsibilities to its shareholders, its customers and the broader community.
Above The Beaufort housetype from the Heritage Range Centre Chapel Green, Great Notley, Essex Right Homes at Parc Victoria, Ebbw Vale, constructed with the new steel-frame system Left Holland Park, Walton-le-Dale, Lancashire CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 9 REDROW HOMES Over the last 20 years, Redrow Homes has been firmly trading outlets within the Midlands.
The rebranding of established as a major developer of new homes.
Our growth and developments, together with the replanning of sites where success have been founded on three core strengths, namely:- appropriate, has been smoothly achieved whilst the retained Tay Homes staff have been welcomed into their respective An excellent management team with a style and culture Redrow teams.
unique to Redrow A long term land policy which has delivered a substantial Redrow Homes has again reported record results with turnover low cost land bank increasing by 21.8% to 506.9m and operating profit by 20% to 89.5m.
These results were secured from 3,573 legal An outstanding product portfolio combined with a clear completions, with an average selling price of 141,900, an focus on customer care 18.1% increase on last year, reflecting in part the increased Above contribution from the Southern and Western Regions and from Ellerslie, Rusholme, Manchester These strengths have historically served the Division well and In the City schemes.
will continue to form the basis for continued organic growth.
The legal completion profile of the Heritage, Harwood and To expand our opportunities for growth, the decision was taken In the City brands was broadly in balance between the first and during the year to divide the existing operation in the South second halves with 1,728 and 1,845 legal completions East into two separate trading companies, Redrow Homes Redrow Homes has again reported record respectively.
In addition the Tay Homes developments Eastern and Redrow Homes South East.
The former will results with operating profit increasing by delivered a further 335 legal completions in the second half trade from the existing office at Waltham Cross and focus on with an average selling price of 108,100.
the area north of the Thames, whilst the latter has been established at a new office at Maidstone with a focus south of the Thames.
The acquisition of Tay Homes in January 2002 provided an opportunity to enhance our organic growth.
Through the acquisition, our land bank was increased by approximately 1,400 Right plots thereby facilitating an expansion of the Groups operations The Orchids, Great Notley, Essex in both Yorkshire and Scotland whilst providing additional Far right Meadow Walk, Tattenhall, Cheshire CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 11 During the year Redrow Homes has continued to expand its Operating margins within Redrow Homes were 17.7% as market share.
Sales reservations have increased by 9.1% in compared with 17.9% last year.
This reduction was due to the volume and by 22.0% in value.
As a result, having allowed for reduced contribution from the Heritage brand, which derives the forward sales within Tay Homes at the time of acquisition, the greatest benefit from the enhanced margins emanating from the Division ended the year with a record forward sales position land acquired through the forward land bank.
of 1,526 units, having a sales value of 218.0m, 23.9% ahead of Tay Homes delivered an operating margin of 16.0% largely the record levels of last year.
reflecting the profitability of the developments at the time of Cost pressures within the industry have increased over the last acquisition.
Subsequently, the adoption of the Redrow product twelve months.
Whilst material price increases have been portfolio combined with identified cost savings will bring the controlled in line with inflation, on-going trade shortages have operating margin more in line with Redrow Homes.
Above resulted in more significant cost increases of between 5% and Apartments from the Harwood Range at I referred last year to the Redrow philosophy of in-house expertise Litherland, Liverpool 10% for some labour trades.
In addition, the ever-increasing with the formation of a centralised Health and Safety Function.
Below burden of building regulations and the various tax increases A computer generated image of Jupiter, The development of this corporate responsibility has been, and imposed by central Government have together increased the the mixed use In The City scheme, will continue to be, an integral part of our management culture cost base within our industry.
Birmingham with all health and safety issues considered and controlled on a more cohesive basis.
During the year, this philosophy has been extended to the creation of a centralised Research and Development team.
This team is charged with identifying and evaluating new construction techniques and products.
It has also been instrumental in the co-ordination and reassessment of previously undertaken research and the management of further tests which resulted in the decision to form the joint venture company, Framing Solutions.
12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW REGIONAL PERFORMANCE The Northern Region delivered 1,621 legal completions, as compared with 1,695 in the previous year, representing 45.4% of the Redrow Homes completions.
The average selling price increased by 14.9% to 122,900 to yield an overall increase in turnover of 9.8%.
In addition 267 legal completions were secured from the Tay Homes developments at an average selling price of 94,100.
The Southern Region achieved 1,050 legal completions, an increase on the previous year of 7.4% and representing 29.4% of the total completions of Redrow Homes.
The average selling price increased by 19.7% to 171,300 to give an overall increase in turnover of 28.5%.
A further 68 legal completions were secured from the Tay Homes developments at an average selling price of 163,000.
The Western Region continued to make significant progress with legal completions increasing by 14.2% to 902 units and the average selling price by 17.8% to 141,500.
As a result, turnover increased by 34.5% to 127.6m.
Right The Maltings, Braintree, Essex Far right Brindley Point, Birmingham City Centre CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 13 THE REDROW BRANDS The last twelve months have witnessed the continuing selling price in the year of 81,800, now account for 20% of development of the Redrow portfolio.
The decision to allow legal completions.
Further, as the majority of the Tay Homes each subsidiary company full access to the Heritage, Harwood, developments in Yorkshire and Scotland were more suited to the Renaissance and In the City brands has been a major factor in the Harwood Range, it is anticipated that its contribution will continuing development of the Homes Division and has greatly increase significantly in the new financial year.
extended the product offering within each subsidiary company.
Within Heritage and Harwood, Renaissance represents a further Our ability to offer our customers a variety of choice both in opportunity for customer choice through the careful restoration terms of product and lifestyle has been, and will continue to be, of historic buildings.
In addition many refurbishment schemes a major factor in their decision to acquire a new Redrow home provide major opportunities for new build development.
and is the cornerstone of our recently launched advertising Above A prime example is the former Victorian hospital at Pen-y-Fal, campaign on digital TV.
This historic building has been refurbished to South Wales Our recognition of increasing customer expectations and provide 63 luxury apartments complemented by a Heritage changing lifestyles resulted in the introduction of the new development of 110 apartments and houses within the grounds.
Sapphire and Emerald specifications for the Heritage Range, In the City developments contributed 13% of legal which last year represented 67% of our legal completions and completions, with an average selling price in the year of The last twelve months have witnessed the had an average selling price of 152,400.
The schemes at 5102 in Bristol, Rigarossa in individual customer lifestyles is further recognised through our continuing development of the Redrow portfolio.
Cardiff, Brindley Point in Birmingham and Park Wharf in highly successful Design Schemes which create community Nottingham are now complete.
Odyssey in London and environments whilst embracing current planning criteria.
Whitworthwest in Manchester continue to progress successfully Over the last two years the Harwood brand has been extended and in the new financial year will be complemented by from its origins in the North West and the West Midlands to additional developments, Jupiter in Birmingham and Velocity represent an increasingly significant element of the Divisions in Leeds.
portfolio in Scotland, Yorkshire, South West and South Wales.
These stylish and contemporary homes, which had an average 14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Above Kitchen from the Sapphire specification Centre Dickens Heath, Solihull Right Bathroom from the Emerald specification CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 15 DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE One of the fundamental strengths of Redrow remains its long Current Land Bank term land policy which has delivered a substantial low cost land bank.
10,000 As a result of significant planning successes during the year, 13,400 of these plots have the benefit of a planning consent, an 7,500 increase on the previous year of 2,100 plots.
The balance are 9,200 9,000 10,200 11,300 13,400 Above held under contract awaiting, in the vast majority of cases, the 5,000 Schooners Creek, Colchester grant of a satisfactory planning consent.
2,500 During the year, the Homes Division acquired 6,000 plots for a 0 total consideration of 136.3m, representing an average plot 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Over the last twelve months, the current cost of 22,700.
This included the 1,400 plots secured on the land bank has increased substantially to acquisition of Tay Homes.
At the financial year end, the average plot cost has increased marginally from 20,900 to 15,600 plots.
Land under contract 21,200, but expressed as a percentage of annual historic sales price, continues to reflect its downward trend, reducing from Land with planning consent 18.5% in 1998 to 15.3% for the current year.
The quality of the current land bank provides inherent support to the Homes Division in delivering future sustainable profitability.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 16 FUTURE Despite the uncertainty within the planning process following the publication of the Planning Green Papers in November 2001, and more recently through the Ministerial reshuffle, forward land has contributed 1,150 plots to the current land bank during the year.
At the year end the forward land bank stood at approximately 25,000 plots but of particular significance is the number of plots allocated in either draft or adopted local plans.
Despite the contribution to the current land bank during the year, these allocations have been maintained at over 8,000 plots, representing in excess of 30% of the forward land bank.
These allocations include 750 plots at Bracknell where we have recently secured planning consent subject to the completion of a planning gain agreement.
This major development in a strategically important location will provide a backbone for Redrow Homes Southern for a considerable number of years.
Above Dickens Heath, Solihull Centre Aerial view of the 400 acre mixed use brownfield site at Buckshaw Village, near Chorley Right The Willow Hornbeam housetype combination from the Harwood Range CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 17 REDROW COMMERCIAL The results for Redrow Commercial reflect a turnover of 30.2m infrastructure works together with the first phase of the and an operating profit of 3.1m.
These results were secured commercial development.
In March 2002 development of this from the investment sale of the 138,500 sq.
ft. office 400 acre mixed use scheme commenced on site and has already development at Windsor Office Park, fully let to Centrica plc, generated significant commercial interest.
the investment sale of the 26,000 sq.
ft. Our mixed use philosophy has also proved successful at trade warehouse at Altrincham, Manchester, fully let to ICI plc, Whitworthwest in Manchester.
The ground floor retail space and the freehold sale of the 8,000 sq.
ft. office development at within this highly successful 224 residential apartment scheme Wakefield to ICM Computer Group plc.
These sales secured the has been pre-let to Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd and, subject to appropriate level of profitability within Redrow Commercial market conditions at the time, the resulting investment will be and provided the finance to enable the Group to acquire Above marketed for sale during the new financial year.
Tay Homes without any significant increase in gearing.
Aerial view of Western Approach, Severnside, Bristol In last years review, I detailed the changes within the management team enabling the structure within Redrow Commercial to mirror that of the Homes Division.
These The new structure within Redrow Commercial changes have given the Group the ability to focus successfully provides the Group with the ability to focus on mixed use developments.
In addition, the extensive project successfully on mixed use developments.
management skills within Redrow Commercial have been harnessed to provide the appropriate controls on all In the City schemes undertaken throughout the Group.
Buckshaw Village in Chorley, Lancashire, exemplifies the success of the Groups mixed use philosophy.
During the year the extensive remediation works to the initial phase have been completed, and detailed planning consent secured for the major 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I reported last year the land sale at Western Approach, Severnside to Next plc for a 100,000 sq.
This facility is now construction complete and the activity on site has resulted in an increase in enquiries and in particular a pre-let to MacFarlane Group U. K. Ltd for a 51,000 sq.
In addition, a funding agreement has been completed for the sale of this investment upon practical completion.
To complement this development, a further 51,000 sq.
ft. distribution warehouse will be constructed on a speculative basis.
ft. speculative office development, Optima, is nearing completion and enquiry levels are encouraging.
Above Aerial view of St. Davids Park, Flintshire, showing the new 27,000 sq.
ft. development, Optima Centre Whitworthwest apartments and retail scheme, Manchester City Centre Right 26,000 sq.
ft. office development, Altrincham Left 138,500 sq.
ft. Windsor office development CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 19 THE REDROW TEAM...
THE COMMUNITY... One of the core strengths of the Group remains the Redrow To achieve that objective we must work to enhance the image Team.
The importance of that team can never be overstated.
of our industry within the community in addition to providing Our continuing growth, combined with the increasing the appropriate support and training for our staff.
Last year we complexity of our industry, means that Redrow must be announced the launch of the Curriculum Resource Pack.
This recognised as an employer of choice so as to be able to is now freely available to all primary schools in the U. K. and attract the highest calibre of employee, whether they be craft seeks to promote a better understanding of the development apprentices and graduates commencing their careers within our process, building upon the National Curriculum.
Recently we industry or more experienced staff.
have launched a new initiative with the National Trust to bring together children from contrasting backgrounds at selected National Trust properties to enhance their experiences and to Above promote a better understanding of the role of their communities.
Our team of newly recruited graduates, pictured with Redrow directors and previous graduate Within the Group the focus remains on providing trainees comprehensive training initiatives.
Programmes have been specifically designed for craft apprentices and graduates and to assist our staff at all levels in gaining professional qualifications Redrow remains a committed member of Business and enhancing their management skills.
in the Community, an organisation which seeks Redrow remains a committed member of Business in the to link the corporate sector with the community.
Community, an organisation which seeks to link the corporate sector with the community.
Through this organisation Redrow employees continue to participate in a number of important initiatives so promoting a better understanding of our industry.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 20 AND THE FUTURE Redrow has entered the new financial year in excellent health.
The Homes Division enjoys record forward sales and an inherently profitable land bank together with a product portfolio that recognises the needs and aspirations of our customers.
Redrow Commercial has established a development programme harnessing the combined residential and commercial skills within the Group to maximise the value from mixed use schemes.
Further, the utilisation of the project management expertise on all residential city centre developments provides the Group with an enhanced level of control.
Accordingly, barring the impact of factors totally outside the control of the Group, Redrow can look forward with confidence to maintaining its record of delivering long term sustainable growth and by so doing deliver value to our Shareholders.
Above Redrow apprentices Centre Carol Bosley, sales manager Redrow Midlands with Paul L. Pedley Chief Executive school children at a National Trust property Left Redrow staff present cheque to Claire House Childrens Hospice CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 21
