Adjusted earnings Chairmans letter US$m Note: A chart of net earnings is provided on page 6.
98 99 00 01 02 Dear Shareholder nature, this is a long term optimisation exercise and not focused on the near term We held out few hopes for much share price nor, necessarily, one years improvement in business conditions for 2002 earnings.
We assume that if we make the and, overall, our caution proved to be well right decisions to maximise the long term founded.
value of the business, then this will ultimately Nevertheless, against a poor market be reflected in our share price, even though environment for most of our products, our short term share price movements adjusted earnings at US$1,530 million fell by sometimes seem to contradict this.
only eight per cent from the record 2001 level The evidence supports our confidence in and remained the second highest ever.
We have a consistent record earnings, after exceptional charges, were of outperforming our sector in total US$651 million.
Cash flow from operations was a record We make a very thorough assessment of US$3,743 million in 2002, a ten per cent investment decisions, which occasionally increase over the previous year.
leads people to think of us as conservative.
Dividends equivalent to 60 US cents per This is not accurate.
Our philosophy is a risk share have been declared for 2002 as a aware approach to value creation.
Adhering whole compared with 59 cents in 2001.
This to our strategy and implementing it effectively also means the 2003 interim dividend has benefited shareholders for many years.
payable in September can be predicted to be Our portfolio of world class assets, which has 30 US cents per share.
long been diverse in terms of product range and location, provides a degree of stability The market in 2002 and a resilience to economic and political Market conditions in the US, Europe and change.
Japan were all relatively weak in 2002 but the We focus on mining large high quality same was not true of China.
Chinas growth, orebodies and managing them efficiently.
As with its heavy focus on infrastructure we again demonstrated in 2002, our cost development, has become a major influence competitive operations generate strong cash in the market for many of our products.
China flows even in weak markets.
now accounts for 17 per cent of global If I were to express this differently, I copper consumption, 16 per cent of would say our purpose remains to be the aluminium consumption and nearly 23 per best performer in our industry.
cent of global steel consumption.
In recent years, Chinas consumption of Corporate responsibility metals has been rising by over ten per cent At a time when the reliability of companies annually and, for the time being, rapid growth published accounts is under greater scrutiny, seems likely to continue.
This is leading to a Rio Tintos corporate governance measures major redistribution of global demand over a ensure transparency and fidelity.
Our relatively short period of time.
Since the business, founded on proven mineral majority of Rio Tintos productive assets are reserves, physical assets, and the movement close to the Pacific Basin, we are particularly of quantifiable products, is straightforward well placed to benefit.
Rio Tinto has been a supplier of iron ore Mining is necessarily an intrusive activity into China for a long time.
We have reinforced with the potential to damage the environment our existing strong links with Chinese and disrupt local communities.
To achieve customers in 2002. success in the long term, and consistent with our goal of being the best in the world, we Consistency and simplicity address these issues as part of our business Our strategy to add value over time is strategy.
characterised by consistency and simplicity.
We took a leadership position in the It has been substantially unchanged for well Global Mining Initiative, an industry over a decade.
The underlying principle is programme to develop a sustainable very simple: we are in business to create development model for mining and metals value for our shareholders.
and to put in place the mechanisms to For this purpose, we define value as the implement our contribution.
net present value of Rio Tinto shares.
By its Senior executives took part in the 2 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements 1,103 1,282 1,507 1,662 1,530 Cash flow from operations Net debt: total capital Dividends per share % US UK Australian US$m cents pence cents 43 Dividends from associates and joint ventures Operating cash flow 0 01 02 01 02 01 02 98 99 00 01 02 98 99 00 01 02 business delegation to the World Summit on To strengthen the independent element Sustainable Development, ensuring the mining of the board, we welcomed two new non perspective was heard.
Rio Tinto currently executive directors.
Andrew Gould, chairman chairs the new industry body on sustainable and chief executive officer of Schlumberger development, the London based International Limited, a technology and oilfields services Council on Mining and Metals.
company, joined the board in December We made progress to align our business 2002.
David Clementi, chairman of Prudential with the principles of sustainable plc and former deputy governor of the Bank development.
Greater focus is being of England, joined in January 2003. encouraged by positioning sustainable Two of our directors will be leaving us development as a framework in which to shortly.
Jonathan Leslie, an executive address a range of cross-cutting issues: director since 1994, who has worked in economic, social and environmental.
There many parts of our Group, will depart at the are many who would say we provide the end of March.
We thank him for his industry benchmark in management of these contribution and wish him every success in issues, as we do in financial performance.
Raymond Seitz, who has Measures we have introduced in recent been a non executive director since 1996, will years include requiring operations to prepare retire from the board at the end of the annual five year community plans with general meetings.
Inter alia, he has chaired disengagement strategies on closure of the board Committee on social and operations.
We have for several years environmental accountability and contributed included safety as a component of executive importantly to our efforts in that field.
incentive plans and are now adding environmental performance into our reward Outlook systems.
We are developing strategies and With little sign of any improvement in Europe partnerships with conservation organisations or Japan, the performance of the US and to protect biodiversity and manage Chinese economies in 2003 will be critical.
The way we The Chinese economy is only 12 per cent of work, our statement of business practice, is the size of that of the US and is too small to being revised to reflect changing lead the world out of recession.
However, the circumstances, best practice and societys same is not true for the mining and metals expectations.
Our safety record continues to industries.
China already consumes more improve towards our goal of zero injuries.
steel and more copper than does the US.
Now that all our businesses produce In 2002, Chinas demand for most their own social and environment reports for commodities rose by ten per cent or more local purposes, we are increasing and shows no sign of slowing.
If it continues communities involvement in these reports.
to grow at anything like its current rate, it will For the second year in a row, Rio Tinto begin to place pressure on the mining and was ranked as sector leader in the Dow Jones metals industries to keep up with the level of Sustainability DJSI World and STOXX indices.
It is difficult to forecast the Chinese In the DJSI World Index we were ranked first in economy with confidence and we have to the mining industry group, while in the STOXX recognise that, if there were to be a sudden Sustainability Index we were ranked first in the slowdown there, it could have a marked basic resources market sector.
The United adverse effect on our markets.
Nations Environment Programme and At a global level, we remain of the view SustainAbility ranked us fifth in the world, that economic recovery is going to be a slow across all industry sectors, in their corporate process.
The influence of China on our sustainability reporting survey.
markets suggests, though, that the mining and metals industries might move ahead of Rio Tintos people other sectors.
The Groups consistent high performance is possible only through the constant effort of our people around the world.
I would like to pay tribute to their unstinting commitment and broad skills, which enable us to embrace the challenges our industry faces with such confidence and enthusiasm.
West Angelas earnings performance over recent years is the first stand alone Marra Mamba iron ore despite the relative weakness of commodity mine to be developed.
Our results in 2002 again reflect our time and under budget, is a credit to the commitment to quality orebodies, continuous project team.
productivity improvement, and cost The Iron Ore Company of Canada has reduction.
With Chinas demand for metals been hit by the downturn in the US steel and minerals growing, we are poised to enjoy industry, yet its strengths make it a benefits from our considerable investment fundamentally sound business.
undergoing a process of renewal to improve its performance.
It has a broad range of high quality products and a very large resource.
Operating performance After 20 years of technology Product group earnings were development, Rio Tinto is expanding its US$1,788 million, before exceptional HIsmelt test plant into a commercial scale charges of US$879 million, compared with operation outside Perth in Western Australia, US$1,906 million in 2001, when there was through a strategic joint arrangement.
The also an exceptional charge of US$583 million.
technology has the potential to revolutionise Market conditions remained extremely iron making.
Construction has commenced difficult for most of our commodities.
We and operations are set to start up in 2004. responded by reducing production at some We see this technology as a means, through operations whilst continuing to focus on licensing agreements, of building our iron ore productivity.
Efficiency improvements were and coal mining businesses, rather than a reflected in the results, particularly at our step towards becoming an iron and steel operations in Australia.
There, Hamersley Iron producer ourselves.
and Blair Athol coal are outstanding examples in this regard.
There has been an excellent improvement in labour productivity Diamonds at these businesses over the last decade and The Diavik diamond mine in Canada started this has been achieved with limited capital production in early 2003, ahead of schedule investment.
With its high quality gems While in 2002 most markets were flat, complementing Australian production from demand for iron ore and gold remained Argyle, we will be able to offer customers a strong, especially sales of iron ore into China, varied suite of diamond product.
With our which contributed strongly to our continuing emphasis on diamonds in performance.
exploration, they are fast becoming another major product for Rio Tinto.
Iron ore Our iron ore shipments were at an all time Aluminium high.
Iron ore shipments into China reached In aluminium, our main focus is the record levels in 2002 and this growth looks development of our alumina business.
This is set to continue over the medium to long an attractive business as the barriers to entry term.
Rio Tinto delivered more than 30 million are high due to the requirement for a quality tonnes of iron ore to China, resulting in a bauxite deposit and the high initial capital market share of 27 per cent.
The new Comalco alumina We concentrate on developing long term refinery in Australia, which is well underway, customer relationships, not only in China, will come on stream at a rate of 1.4 million through Hamersley Irons long standing tonnes per year in 2005.
It will have the Channar joint venture and the Baosteel capability of expansion in stages.
Ultimately, agreement completed in 2002, but also with our total alumina production could grow to customers in Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
We six million tonnes per year.
welcome progress made in 2002 towards greater consolidation of the worldwide steel Energy industry.
A key development in our Energy group is the In 2002, we commissioned Robe Rivers expansion of our hard coking coal capacity West Angelas project in Western Australia, from just less than two million tonnes to over 4 Rio Tinto 2002 Annual report and financial statements
