Chief Executives review We will improve performance by focusing on operating efficiences, on costs and by delivering added value to our customers.
We are determined to succeed in these areas.
Stuart Walker Group Chief Executive In my review in last years Annual Report, I spoke of continued difficult trading conditions and world economic turbulence in 2001.
Trading conditions were again challenging in many of the Groups markets in 2002, with political uncertainties casting a shadow over already fragile markets.
Working as we do across the globe, we cannot influence the political or economic conditions prevailing in our many markets.
What we can do, however, is focus our efforts on managing our business to the best of our combined abilities.
I should like to use this review to describe just some of the actions we have taken during the year: positioning the Group to address current market uncertainties and rebalancing and strengthening it to ensure future growth based on a sound financial footing.
I will also describe the performance of the business in 2002 and my thoughts on the outlook for 2003.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 8 Hard and soft landscaping An integral part of the 130 million investment in the Dalmacijacement cement plant in Split, Croatia.
Centre for Art and Culture, Meudon, France The Centre for Art and Culture at Meudon, in the Ile-fide-France region was built using architectural self-compacting concrete SCC.
Using SCC made it possible to pour the mix without the vibration needed for conventional placement, guaranteeing a smooth-quality finish.
RMC is Europes leading aggregates producer Thus far in 2003, we have sold our distribution With regard to improving the performance and the worlds 10th largest manufacturer operation Rugby IPD Corp. in the USA and of the cement business, the Groups cement of cement in addition to its leading global have disposed of our operations in Jordan.
trading division substantially increased internal position in ready mixed concrete.
With its In addition we have sold our ready mixed sales between Group companies.
This enabled wealth of experience gained through concrete and aggregates operations in increased utilisation of the Groups cement geographic diversity, the Group rightly has Belgium, further contributing to reducing the plants in a number of countries, with overall an enviable reputation worldwide.
The prevailing economic plant utilisation rising.
however, recognise that we need to improve climate has made it difficult to dispose of our financial performance and we are businesses, but I am pleased to say that despite In conducting our business review every aspect determined to do so.
these challenges we are set to meet our debt of the Groups businesses was closely reduction target by the end of this year.
considered including all possible options Sir John Parker has referred to the business regarding our operations in Germany.
After review which was announced in March and As part of the strategy of focusing on smaller rigorous and thorough consideration the Board concluded in July last year.
This was one of bolt-on acquisitions that complement the felt it was in the best long-term interests of the most comprehensive reviews ever core businesses, a number of such acquisitions shareholders to retain the Groups leading conducted by the Group and its results and were made during 2002 at a total cost of position in what is one of Europes largest required actions have provided confidence for 36 million.
These included the Premier construction markets.
While the outlook for the future as we implement our strategy.
Resources business, acquired by Adelaide the German construction industry, after Brighton in March New South Wales and suffering year-on-year declines since 1995, A key element of the review was confirmation Victoria, Australia ready mixed concrete, is unlikely to improve significantly in the of the Groups target to reduce net debt to aggregates and cement grinding, F Gibbons immediate future, I am confident the actions below 1 billion by the end of 2003, through & Sons Limited in October Great Britain we are taking in Germany to streamline the a combination of disposals and cash generation aggregates, Rio Grande Materials in operations further, to strengthen our market from the business.
During the year we sold November New Mexico, USA ready mixed shares and to simplify the ownership structure the aerated concrete businesses Durox and concrete and Neil Mansell Concrete Pty Ltd, of our German business will place us in a YTONG, received proceeds from the sale of acquired by Adelaide Brighton in December strong position to benefit from any our concrete products business in France and Queensland, Australia ready mixed concrete.
completed the sale of our operations in the Netherlands.
These made a significant contribution to the fall in our net debt from 1,489.4 million, to 1,179.6 million at the year end, these disposals being earnings enhancing.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 9 Chief Executives review continued The Port Event Centre, Dsseldorf, Germany As in many large port cities around the world, the dock area of Dsseldorf is undergoing a great deal of redevelopment, incorporating much new architecture.
Readymix Baustoffgruppe has supplied more New Opera House, Copenhagen, Denmark than 15,000 cubic metres of concrete for RMCs Danish subsidiary, 4K-Beton, supplied 35,000 the construction of the new 60 million cubic metres of concrete for the construction of the new Port Event Centre, including special strength Copenhagen Opera House, located near the historic and coloured concrete.
mixes was manufactured at the companys plant in Dortmund.
Sustainable energy project for Denmark We commenced operations in Germany in The Groups position is clear.
We will not take In collaboration with Danish subsidiary 4K-Beton, RMC 1955 and have established a position as part in or support any anti-competitive Polska, the Groups Polish subsidiary, secured the contract to supply concrete to Danish construction company Per Aarsleff market leader in ready mixed concrete, the practices in our industry and we have robust to build 74 bases for an offshore aeolian energy generation number two producer of aggregates and the procedures in place to ensure compliance with station.
These units represent the first phase of a project to fourth largest producer of cement.
Inevitably, the Boards instructions in this regard.
supply Denmark with sustainable energy.
The 15-metre high units each comprising 515 cubic metres of concrete were as we reviewed our options in Germany, our built on barges at the port of Swinoujscie over an 18-month employees became concerned as to their Action is being taken across the Group to period.
They were then towed to, and positioned on the seabed off the Danish coast, where the windmill towers futures.
They remained focused and streamline the business and to reduce further and generation plant will be added.
committed to the Group through this difficult our cost base.
We are reinforcing our existing process and I take this opportunity to thank positions by continuing to address changing them all for their loyalty.
We have a new senior markets and the needs of our customers, and management team in Germany that is highly are seizing opportunities that arise through our motivated to deliver strong and sustainable geographic diversity for greater efficiencies and improvement.
With the progress made in the first six months since announcing the During the year, the Federal Cartel Office FCO outcome of the business review, the Group is undertook an investigation into alleged anticonfident that it will be able to achieve the competitive practices in the German cement 12% target return on net operating assets in industry, simultaneously raiding some 30 the medium term, subject to improved offices.
RMC still awaits the findings of the economic conditions.
investigation, but believes that, in reaching its decision, the FCO will take account of actions There is a determination throughout the Group taken by the Group in recent years.
Since to deliver business improvements and returns 1999, RMC has taken significant steps to albeit against an uncertain international trading strengthen its competition compliance environment.
Progress will be achieved through procedures worldwide.
In 2001, it appointed the combined application and commitment of new management to its German operations management and all our employees.
I thank and withdrew from all trade associations in them for their endeavours in 2002 and am the country.
A sum of 16 million has been confident that their resolve and application provided to cover fines for anti-competitive will see the Group make continued progress activities and associated legal costs.
towards its strategic goals in 2003.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 10 Group results Port expansion, Monaco Bton fide France, a subsidiary and Someca, a joint venture, of RMC France are supplying 45,000 cubic metres of ready mixed concrete and over 400,000 tonnes of aggregates for the development to expand the port of Monaco.
The project, which includes a semi-floating sea wall, is a world first in port engineering, using innovative technology adapted from the offshore oil industry.
Overview severe economic slowdown and unseasonably Group results wet weather in the autumn.
Worldwide, the The Groups results for 2002 reflect difficult Property division continued to make a steady trading conditions in a number of key markets.
stream of sales from its large land bank, Performance in some markets was also delivering profits of 16.5 million impacted by bad weather late in the year.
However, results were encouraging in a number of places, particularly in France, Spain, Net exceptional charges totalled 8.2 million and in eastern Europe where the Group is well 2001: 9.2 million.
These comprised net positioned to take advantage of the benefits of profits of 27.3 million arising on the disposal forthcoming EU membership.
In Australia, and closure of non-core businesses, primarily there was a strong performance from the the Groups two aerated concrete businesses, Adelaide Brighton operations acquired as part Durox and YTONG, and charges of of the Rugby Group acquisition in 2000.
35.5 million which include provisions for fines for anti-competitive activities, principally Total turnover from continuing operations fell arising from the German Federal Cartel by 34.7 million to 4,844.3 million.
Falls in Office investigation into the cement industry Germany and the USA were largely offset by in Germany, and redundancy costs arising increased turnover in Great Britain, the Rest from the Groups business review.
of Europe and the Rest of the World.
Net interest fell by 40.5 million to EBITA from continuing operations profit 83.7 million, reflecting reduced borrowing before tax, interest, amortisation of goodwill levels and lower average interest rates in 2002. and exceptional items fell by 61.3 million to 262.6 million.
This decline was mainly Profit before tax, excluding exceptional items, attributable to Great Britain 32.0 million, fell by 26.4 million to 144.3 million.
Profit where problems persisted at the Rugby cement before tax, including exceptional items, was plant, resulting in a number of shutdowns to 25.4 million lower at 136.1 million.
undertake modifications and inconsistent performance, and the USA 31.1 million, where the eastern region was affected by a Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 11 Ready mixed concrete and mortar Aggregates Cement and cementitious products Building and concrete products Lime Waste control
