Chief Executives review During 2002, for the first time in Shires history, the Company faced Therapeutic focus generic competition to one of its key products, ADDERALL, an Shires main areas of therapeutic focus are: central nervous system immediate release ADHD drug.
For many successful pharmaceutical disorders, gastrointestinal, oncology, and anti-infectives.
companies, it is accepted that such an event can have a significant In December 2002, Shire completed the sale of its US over-the-counter negative impact on a companys financial performance.
I am pleased OTC product portfolio to Purdue Pharmaceuticals Inc.
This divestment to say that Shires ADDERALL franchise remained the US ADHD market marks Shires complete exit from OTC operations and will allow the leader and our US sales and marketing team was able to grow our Company to focus resources on its core strategy of providing ADHD franchise by 17% despite this challenge.
prescription pharmaceuticals to specialist doctors.
The conversion of patients from immediate release ADDERALL to our Geographic focus new product ADDERALL XR has been a great success, with ADDERALL Shire currently markets its products using its sales forces in seven major XR being welcomed as a substantially improved oral, slow-release pharmaceutical markets of the world.
Shire covers other significant formulation.
Its recognition as a preferred treatment combined with pharmaceutical markets indirectly through distributors a very successful sales and marketing campaign gave ADDERALL XR a 23.8% share of the US ADHD prescription market in December 2002.
Technology focus Shires combined ADHD franchise prescription share in December 2002 Shires three platform technologies lead optimisation for small molecules, was 28.8%, which includes both ADDERALL and ADDERALL XR.
biologics research and advanced drug delivery are an important part of its risk-balanced approach.
Importantly these three platform technologies The year 2002 also highlighted the growing value of our international also widen our ability to in-license research programmes, development operations, with 44% revenue growth.
Two new specialty pharmaceutical projects and products.
These technologies can also be used to manage products, SOLARAZE and ADEPT, were launched in several European the life cycle of existing products.
countries, leveraging the existing European infrastructure.
Moving forward Shire has a risk-balanced R&D portfolio with a clear focus on future Shire is moving forward with confidence as a strong, independent product needs.
To enhance the potential for future growth, Shire follows company well positioned for continued growth.
We have a strong track two main approaches: to start projects in-house through research and record of successful mergers and acquisitions and this will continue to advanced drug delivery, and to in-license projects and products on be a major focus for our future expansion.
Shire has recently launched a reasonable commercial terms, and then to develop and launch them.
number of new products, both in the US and in its International markets, This broad approach strengthens Shires strategy.
and it continues to invest in focused R&D capabilities to sustain growth Shire remains an acquisitive company and in the past eight years has in future years.
completed six major mergers and acquisitions, each one providing I would like to thank all employees for their diligence and dedication, or building on our internal platforms for growth.
Shire will continue which were the key drivers of our success in 2002, probably one of the to evaluate companies, products and project opportunities that offer most challenging and equally most successful in Shires 16-year history.
a good strategic fit and enhance shareholder value.
Their hard work and innovative ideas will help Shire to achieve even Functional focus greater results in the years ahead.
Shire focuses on specific functional areas of the business that are identified as key drivers for success, such as R&D and sales and marketing.
Shires current R&D pipeline includes 13 projects that are either in or post Phase II development.
In order to reduce financial and business Matthew Emmens risk, Shire maintains a careful and objective discipline in its approach Chief Executive to R&D risk management by weighting our portfolio of projects towards those projects viewed as low to medium risk.
Part of this strategy is the acquisition of projects at a given stage of development.
In-licensing opportunities typically reduce exposure to the high risks associated with the early stages of R&D.
Shire believes, as a consequence, the average risk profile of projects in our R&D portfolio is lower than the industry average.
Going forward we will focus our R&D resources to ensure we foster depth in a few areas rather than spreading thinly in the pursuit of breadth in many.
Shires sales and marketing function is another essential factor contributing to its success.
Shire takes pride in its well-trained and highly motivated sales forces which have, through the success of Shires key marketed products, demonstrated outstanding professionalism and performance.
Customer focus Shire has a particular interest in innovative therapies that are prescribed by specialist doctors as opposed to those prescribed by primary care or general practitioners.
Shire targets specialists because they usually lead innovations in prescribing as well as being smaller in number and easier for a company of Shires size to target effectively.
