In a similar way we are looking to the recent acquisition of the business.
Much has been said about the disappointing levels of Ovaltine brands from Novartis to work alongside our already performance from this business in recent times.
The problems successful Twinings business to give the scale, expertise and have centred on our meat and biscuit operations and should international market presence necessary to have a much stronger not detract from the qualities of the rest of the company which impact on the speciality beverages market.
This will again provide include a first rate milling and baking operation, some very good a base for further growth.
brands and some very good people.
The change in ownership structure will allow us to simplify the business and should lead Many of our businesses can however achieve the necessary strength to an early improvement in results.
and scale in their markets without major acquisition but by organic growth supported by capital investment.
During the past year Any overview of our performance would not be complete 186 million was invested in capital projects including 51 million without a reference to sugar.
British Sugars results were on new stores and rets in support of the remarkable growth of our impacted by a low crop, poor performance at the Wissington Primark retailing operation.
The skill of Primarks staff, their clarity of factory and, to a lesser extent, by low world sugar prices.
focus and their understanding of the customer have all contributed Despite this we delivered a strong result which, although still to a further strengthening of Primarks position in its chosen market.
a major part of our earnings, is becoming a smaller proportion of the whole as other parts of the business continue to grow.
This last year has seen good performances from a range This reduces the groups exposure to the EU sugar regime of businesses across the group.
Many of these will be referred which is a trend we expect to continue.
Examples of marketing successes include brand extensions at Ryvita and Twinings and innovative product I mentioned above the fluctuations in world sugar prices.
launches at our SPI Pharma business.
Amongst the many Although they do not have a major direct effect on British Sugar, examples of effective cost reduction was a very strong performance they have a major indirect effect on the profitability of our in improving supply chain and distribution efficiencies at our UK businesses in Poland and China.
Lower sugar prices have bakery business.
However, this business continues to trade in a impacted profits from these two businesses during the last tough market and much work is still needed before we achieve year and I do not expect to see any improvement in the a satisfactory level of return from this investment.
References to tough market conditions become repetitive and Across the board our businesses can face the future with should now be seen as the norm for most industries.
Many of confidence, aware that there is still much to do, but knowing our businesses have shown that success can be achieved in from their achievements this year that they have both the ability the toughest of markets.
and resources to continue on a very rm growth path.
Since the end of the financial year we have acquired the minority Peter Jackson shareholdings in George Weston Foods, our Australian Chief Executive Sales m 4,545 Adjusted operating profit m Adjusted earnings per share p 395 38.7 before exceptional items before exceptional items, profit on the sale and amortisation of goodwill of xed assets and amortisation of goodwill 4,418 4,406 351 4,299 340 33.8 33.1 326 4,195 316 32.0 31.3 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 9 Our teas include Jacksons of Piccadilly, Nambarrie and the worlds leading speciality brand Twinings.
10 Associated British Foods plc everyones cup of tea
