Developments announced during 2002 are consistent with the groups strategy.
01 Group Chief Executives review 12 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Ports & transport UK per cent in 2002.
The public inquiry into the groups considered, provided they meet the prescribed consideration of US$50.0 million.
AMPORTS Developments announced during 2002 are application to develop Dibden Terminal commenced hurdle rate of return of 15 per cent for new capital USAs Aviation division comprised 11 airport consistent with the groups strategy of growing in November 2001 and was completed on schedule investment.
operations and the sale of each was conditional existing business and developing new business in December 2002.
The governments decision is ABP is continuing to work with the UK upon obtaining consents from the relevant airport through rigorously-targeted investment.
now expected either late this year or next year.
government with regard to anti-terrorism measures and regulatory authorities.
The sale was fully The group continues to focus on its core ports To accommodate increasing volumes of rollin the wake of 11 September 2001.
For security completed in December 2002. and transport activities.
The groups main business on roll-off traffic, imports of coal and shortsea legislation to be successful in the ports industry, Developing AMPORTS USAs Seaport division of operating its UK ports grew by 3 per cent in container traffic, the group is looking to construct it needs to be well focused on the immediate ship is part of the groups growth strategy.
New vehicle 2002, maintaining the positive momentum generated further riverside terminals on the Humber Estuary, and port interface and pay particular attention toprocessing accounts won in 2002, combined with over the previous two years.
where ABP owns and operates four ports Grimsby, cargoes and facilities of strategic importance to new accounts won in the previous year, contributed The group intends to continue to concentrate Immingham, Hull and Goole.
to vehicle-volume growth of 48 per cent year-on-year.
its capital investment programme on  will remove the need for vessels to lock in As part of the groups ongoing programme of attractive projects generating internal rates of and out of ports, enabling quicker turnaround and managing its cost base, a further cost review was Disposal of non-core assets return of at least 15 per cent, supported by longthe accommodation of larger ships.
undertaken towards the end of the year with the The group will continue to sell non-operational term contracts with quality customers.
This strategy The major growth projects at Dibden Terminal intention of reducing future operating expenditure.
property and exploit the potential of its property has ensured that over 50 per cent of the UK ports and on the Humber will only be developed once This resulted in a pre-tax exceptional restructuring portfolio.
However, those assets essential to business over the next year is underpinned by the group has secured customer contracts that charge to the profit and loss account of 5.5 million support the growth strategy in the main ports and customer contracts.
This stable revenue profile has meet its investment criteria.
It is estimated that the review will realise transport business will be retained.
helped the group withstand the effects of the current ABP Connect, which focuses on developing savings of at least 3.0 million per year once the As a result of property sales both income and economic slowdown on trade volumes.
Nonthe value-added services that the group can offer programme of cost savings is fully implemented.
profit from investment property rentals fell.
revenue-earning or maintenance capital expenditure customers, has now been operating for However, the growth generated by the strategic continues to be monitored closely and contained approximately 18 months.
This division is an Ports & transport USA reinvestment of proceeds from non-core property below the groups annual rate of depreciation.
extension of the ports and transport-related activities In September 2001, the group announced the and land sales into the core ports and transport The locations of the groups UK ports constitute in which the group already has considerable result of a review which it undertook in order to business should compensate for this.
a good geographical spread of risk.
ABP Connect has firmly established determine whether the groups USA operations were During 2002, the group sold a further 31.0 no single type of cargo accounts for more than 10 itself in the market by operating and managing in line with its core business objectives.
million of non-core property and land assets.
This per cent of the groups UK ports turnover.
Hams Hall Railfreight Terminal, Birmingham, and As a result of this review, the group decided brings the total amount of non-core property and This carefully-focused strategy has delivered by securing a major contract with HM Customs & to retain AMPORTS USAs Seaport division, which land sold since 1 January 2000 to 169.0 million.
strong growth in underlying earnings per share Excise for the storage of seized goods.
The is more closely aligned with the groups UK port The group remains on track to achieve its target and an increase in the groups return on capital groups strategy is to consolidate the value-added operations, and to sell AMPORTS USAs Aviation of 200.0 million for total non-core property and employed over the last three years.
services that are provided in order to give them division, subject to receipt of a satisfactory offer.
land sales set at the beginning of 2000.
The Dibden Terminal, the groups proposed deepgreater focus and to realise their full potential.
Following the terrorist attacks in the USA on group also received 71.0 million from the sale of sea container port development at Southampton, ABP Connect has performed well, in line with 11 September 2001, the group deferred this Red Funnel Group in 2000.
Together with the supported by the substantial growth projected in expectations.
In July 2002, the group 32.0 million from the sale of AMPORTS USAs deep-sea container traffic, offers further The group continues to take a cautious view in announced that it had reached agreement for the Aviation division, this brings the total amount of opportunities for growth.
Container volumes through respect of strategic acquisitions.
Activities closely sale of this operation to subsidiaries of Macquarie non-core asset sales since 1 January 2000 to the Southampton container terminal grew by 10 aligned with the groups core business will be Global Infrastructure Funds for a cash 272.0 million.
01 The groups main business its UK ports 02 03 and transport operations grew by 3 per cent in 2002.
02 Investment at the Port of Grimsby included the provision of additional car-storage facilities for the Volkswagen Group.
03 The group is looking to develop further riverside terminals on the Humber.
13 Operational management the payment of bonuses.
In some areas, wide variety of trades, it is not dependent upon In April 2002, ABPs  notably those where individual performance any one type of cargo.
Third, over 50 per cent team was strengthened by the appointment of can affect the groups results significantly, of the groups UK ports business for the next 12 Stephen Walsh as General Counsel.
Stephen performance-linked bonus incentives are used months is already under contract.
These factors was formerly Legal Director of British Airways plc.
to reward achievement of specified targets.
lead to the belief that the group is well placed Following the sale of the Aviation division, The groups success is clearly dependent to make further progress during the course of Doug Tipton, Chief Executive Officer of upon the continuing effort and ingenuity of this year.
AMPORTS USA, agreed to step down from our staff, who work hard to achieve the In the medium term, the opportunities to his post having spent three successful years groups aims.
invest in additional riverside terminals on the improving the performance of the groups US The health and safety at work of the Humber and at Dibden Terminal the proposed operations.
He was succeeded at the beginning groups employees and others affected by deep-sea container port development at of 2003 by Jim Davis, who has been at its activities is of paramount importance to Southampton together with regular expansion AMPORTS for three years in senior sales the group.
The groups corporate policy on at the UK ports, will provide a solid platform and marketing and operating roles.
Jim has health and safety is backed by strong for future growth.
considerable experience in transport-related commitment from the board of directors and businesses through his previous work for is based on the firmly-held view that injuries Sealand, Mitsui OSK American Inc. and and cases of ill health, suffered at work, Contship.
Mike Fell, OBE, ABPs Port Director for Hull & Goole, will be retiring at the end of March Corporate social responsibility 2003 after 32 years service in a distinguished The group takes its corporate social career that has seen the fortunes of the Port responsibility CSR seriously.
We intend to of Hull improve to become one of the UKs publish, for the first time, a separate CSR Bo Lerenius major ports.
Douglas Morrison, currently Hull report later this year.
Group Chief Executive & Gooles Deputy Port Manager, will succeed Mike Fell, effective 1 April 2003.
Future growth 19 February 2003 Three major strengths of the groups UK Employees ports business support its growth strategy.
The interests of the groups employees First, the geographic spread of its 21 ports continue to be aligned to those of the group throughout the UK reduces the businesss through opportunities to acquire company reliance on any one trade route.
Second, shares by way of share schemes and through as the groups UK ports business handles a Group Chief Executives review continued 14 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002
