Product markets % Geographic markets % sales from ongoing operations sales from ongoing operations UK 8% Advanced wound Africa, Asia & management 30% Australasia 14% Orthopaedics 43% Continental Europe 22% Endoscopy 27% America 56% Our new products are driving our growth and setting new standards of care.
Market growth remains buoyant and Chief Executives demographics and lifestyle trends remain positive.
Healthcare expenditure continues to grow in all statement our major markets.
Technology is expanding the marketplace through the growth of less invasive and longer lasting surgical techniques and Delivering sustainable growth implants.
With the introduction of new orthopaedic In 2002 our markets grew strongly and once bearing materials, led by Oxinium from Smith & again Smith & Nephew outpaced the industry.
Nephew, surgeons are increasingly treating I am pleased to report excellent growth in our younger patient groups.
New techniques Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound continue to simplify and make procedures faster, Management businesses.
and less invasive techniques in orthopaedics and endoscopy are taking hold as patients increasingly We now have formidable teams in place and drive demand.
Technology advancements in we are focused on three high-growth markets.
treating hard-to-heal wounds are driving strong We bring truly innovative and differentiating growth in the active healing sector of the technologies that meet the needs of physicians, advanced wound management market.
We are marketing our products ever more effectively We aim to raise operating margins before through expanded and specialised global goodwill amortisation from 18% in 2002 to 21% sales forces.
in 2005, moving half a percentage point closer to that goal in 2003 through improvements in Our underlying group sales increase was 14% in operational performance and product mix.
Sales in North America grew 15% and the same time we will continue to invest in product region now represents some 56% of the groups innovation, and in growing our sales teams by business.
Sales growth in Europe was 12%, at least 10% a year for the foreseeable future.
reflecting increased healthcare spending and ageing populations.
Sales in the rest of the world Orthopaedics grew 16%.
Orthopaedics sales rose by an underlying 20% and its performance continued to outpace the market.
Reconstructive implant sales grew by an impressive 20%, boosted by continued 04 Smith & Nephew 2002 Oxinium knee implants ElectroBlade Resector His dream of early From twenty years retirement and new life experience as an of golf and sailing went aerobics instructor, on hold as osteoarthritis she understands the crippled his plans.
importance of fitness in Frustrated by increasing a well-balanced lifestyle.
pain and lack of mobility, Thats why, when she he consulted his surgeon suffered a torn ligament for a solution.
Thanks in her right knee a year to bilateral Oxinium ago, she wasted no time knee implants, this agreeing to her doctors retired banker is back recommendation for on course.
Due to reduced pain and recovery time, she was back at the gym soon after the procedure and enjoying the benefits of a healthy lifestyle.
Our operational performance and product mix is constantly being refined to improve margins.
surgeon response to the additional Oxinium will have responsibility for developing global knee products launched in 2002.
We once again strategy and its own product development, recorded industry-leading growth in this sector, marketing and sales functions.
They will share led by knee growth of 33%, 10% of which was common manufacturing and support contributed by the introduction of our joint fluid organisations.
The sales forces in major therapy product, Supartz.
Hip sales grew by US cities will be specialised into separate 17% led by continued growth in revision reconstructive and trauma units on a phased procedures, increased penetration of our highly basis beginning in the first quarter of 2003. cross linked polyethylene liners and continued strength in our platform hip systems including Endoscopy Synergy and Echelon.
Endoscopy sales grew at an underlying 10% Sales pricing in Orthopaedics remained positive with strong growth coming from outside the US.
The company acquired the ORATEC minimally invasive joint and spine business in the year, The Oxinium knee has been an outstanding which added 9% to sales growth and has given success since its launch in 2001.
We have us a leading position in radio frequency continued to invest in the Oxinium programme technology in arthroscopy.
and Computer Assisted Surgery throughout the year where we have received US regulatory Knee and shoulder ligament repair products approval for hip, knee and trauma applications.
grew particularly strongly at 21% making the We have developed an Oxinium femoral head group the market leader in arthroscopic repair.
for hips and have already launched the product New repair products were launched during the in 2003. year to strengthen our position in the arthroscopy market, including TwinFix, a specialised shoulder We are creating two divisions within our repair device.
New bioresorbable screws for orthopaedic business, Reconstruction and ligament fixation performed well.
This initiative is aimed at sustaining has brought us a unique product that combines our industry leading performance by improving simultaneous resection with coagulation of soft the focus on these separate market sectors.
We also introduced a bipolar cutting This structure will enable us to bring technology and ablation system for the Vulcan generator to market faster and increase our customer responsiveness and satisfaction.
