A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 6 chief executives review The Spirax-Sarco Engineering Group is focused on the businesses which supply and service the industrial and commercial steam systems market Spirax Sarco and the peristaltic pumping market Watson-Marlow Bredel.
Both are the world leader in their respective markets and, in both cases, we provide knowledge, service and products in order to help customers to maintain and improve the efficiency of their processes and the quality of their products.
The high level of technical support given to customers in both businesses is fundamental to fostering close customer relations with, and reliance on, Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel.
For a great many years, the Spirax Sarco business has accumulated a wealth of experience on how steam should be used most effectively to transfer heat energy and is an acknowledged expert in the control and efficient use of steam and other industrial fluids.
Steam is a sterile gas containing large amounts of energy which is released as heat, at constant temperature for any M. J. D. STEEL Chief Executive given pressure, on condensation back into water.
Steam can be generated using many energy sources such as In 2002, we worked hard to increase sales and gas, oil, coal or waste products.
These important protect our profits, given the destabilised characteristics make steam the ideal heat transfer economic environment that followed medium for industrial and commercial applications.
September 11th and the bursting of the economic bubble.
We succeeded in growing Spirax Sarco has an extremely wide customer base sales in the Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow which includes manufacturers of petrochemicals, food Bredel markets, and in improving our profits and drink, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, plastics, and profit margins.
This demonstrates the rubbers, fertilisers, pulp and paper, sugar, metals and fundamental strength of our business and the electronics, and is widely used in laundries, hospitals, opportunities for growth open to us.
horticulture and in the biotechnology sector, for heating, humidification and sterilisation applications.
We have over 100,000 customers regularly buying from our 42 companies in 32 countries and from our distributors around the globe.
Practically everything we use in our day to day lives is produced using steam at some point in its manufacture as some of the photographs in this report illustrate.
Our specialised steam application knowledge is freely available to customers to improve the efficiency of their plant, reduce energy bills and enhance the quality of their products.
Spirax Sarco does this through the use of extensive training programmes and through its own highly trained force of over 800 direct sales engineers 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 7 worldwide building long term partnerships with our concentrating on particular market areas and seizing our customers.
By understanding and identifying our opportunities, we protected our position well.
customers' needs, our sales engineers can feed back market requirements to the marketing and design Turnover grew by 2% in the year which included engineers within our Supply organisation.
organic growth of 4% but with an adverse exchange effect of 2%.
The exchange effect arose from Our range of specially engineered products has been weakness of the US dollar, South American currencies developed over the years to encompass the valves and and most Asian currencies, partially offset by a controls used in the steam loop - from the generation stronger euro.
The underlying sales growth of 4% was of steam in the boilerhouse, its measurement and achieved against the tough trading environment distribution, its control by process users and the return mentioned above, and arose from the implementation of condensed steam, water, back to the boilerhouse.
of a number of sales development plans and The vast majority of products are manufactured in our continuing development of the product range, own world class factories around the world.
including the progressive release of a new generation of the core range of Watson-Marlow Bredel pumps Watson-Marlow Bredel is the world market leader and that started in 2001. largest manufacturer of peristaltic pumps.
The peristaltic pumping principle is increasing its share of the positive displacement pump market because of its special features.
In particular, it avoids contamination of the fluid or the pump, the action is gentle necessary for some sensitive products like blood plasma, foods, etc.
it is self-priming, can run dry, involves no seals, is reversible and prevents back flow.
The full Watson-Marlow Bredel range handles flows from 0.0002 millilitres per minute to 80,000 litres per hour and pressures up to 16 bar.
The applications for peristaltic pumps are very wide and include chemical processing, water and waste treatment, food processing, pulp and paper, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, printing and many others.
trading As anticipated, trading levels and profits in the second half of 2002 were ahead of the second half of 2001, which had been depressed particularly by reduced demand on our factories.
The result is that the 2002 full year produced higher sales and profits, which is good given the trading conditions.
The economies of the New in 2002 Americas and Europe, including the UK, were generally Digital In-line Variable Area Flowmeter weak and there was low industrial investment arising from a lack of business confidence, which still persists.
In Operating profit grew by 5% from 40.8 million to Asia, Australasia and Africa, the position was more 42.7 million and this includes a small negative 1 encouraging although could not be described as strong: exchange effect of about 2 million.
The increase in in particular Japan remained very depressed, but, against profit arose chiefly from the organic growth in sales, that, the Chinese economy continued to grow well.
The efficiency improvements, resourcing of raw materials in Argentinian economy collapsed at the end of 2001 and Asia and cost controls, including reduced numbers remained in a fragile state throughout 2002, but, by employed as was outlined in the 2001 Annual Report.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 5 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 8 chief executives review continued In Continental Europe, profits were marginally up, united kingdom although the results were rather mixed.
The UK profits were down because of some cost increases - notably pensions and insurances.
In the Americas and in Asia, Australasia and Africa, profits increased as a result of a mixture of the sales growth and cost and efficiency improvements.
Sales in the UK domestic market were flat.
The economy was anaemic, particularly the industrial sector which makes up a significant part of the customer base for the steam and peristaltic pumping businesses.
Industrial production was down and investment was weak, but we protected our sales through taking the opportunities provided by new products and winning a number of the few projects being undertaken.
Demand on the UK factories, which supply our worldwide markets, was firm and stock reductions were achieved.
Total UK operating profits fell from 8.6 million to 8.0 million due to substantially higher pension an extra 1.7 million per annum, insurance and some central costs, the effects of which New in 2002 were mitigated by the cost saving programmes and Stainless Steel Float Trap for the food and beverage industry raw material resourcing.
The factors above enabled the operating profit margin to increase from 14.0% in 2001 to 14.4% in 2002 in spite of the difficult trading environment and the adverse exchange rate movements.
The improvement of the margin in future years will also be based on both sales growth and control of costs: the fundamental benefits of offering technical support for, and selling direct to, end user customers remain and will continue to underwrite the profitability of the Group.
In December 2002 we completed the acquisition of Ampe, in Italy, for 1 million including assumed liabilities: this brings into the Group our supplier of pneumatic and electronic instrumentation and actuators.
In February 2003 we announced our intention to close our small factory in Spain as part of our cost controls and efficiency improvements.
The 1 closure costs of about 1 2 million will be included within operating profits for the first half of 2003 but will be mitigated by cost savings in the second half.
6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 9 success at AstraZeneca in the UK Total elimination of any risk of cross contamination, accurate flow rates and optimum hygiene standards, as well as cost savings, were all factors in the selection of a Watson-Marlow Bredel peristaltic pump for a dispensing duty at AstraZeneca UK Manufacturing, Macclesfield.
The dispensing duty involves filling glass bottles with a high value anaesthetic.
The original intention had been to install a total dispensing machine.
However, when AstraZeneca saw the Watson-Marlow Bredel pump, they recognised its possibilities as a key component of a simple, efficient and highly cost effective alternative.
The anaesthetic, a low viscosity liquid, is pumped at ambient temperature.
Empty bottles are fed by conveyor to the filling machine where the pump delivers from pressurised bulk containers to the dispensing head.
Integration of the pump controls and filling machine provides the required start stop operational sequence.
Recorded accuracy of 0.2% guarantees against loss of product due to overfilling.
The pumps glandless, seal free construction, with the liquid contained within the tube, eliminates leakage or product contamination from external sources.
Product quality controls require the cleaning of the filling system after each batch.
The Watson-Marlow Bredel pump design provides a cost effective solution to this problem through the use of disposable silicone tubing that is quick and easy to fit, all of which are major factors in the overall efficiency of the system.
Compared with the original total dispensing concept, there are substantial cost savings from using the Watson-Marlow Bredel peristaltic pump solution.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 10 chief executives review continued continental europe international markets outside Americas and Europe There was a mixture of performances in Continental Europe: third party sales increased by 5% to 106.5 Third party sales grew during 2002 by 6% at constant million, of which 2% results from favourable exchange exchange rates but suffered an adverse exchange movements.
The performance of our French sales translation effect of 3%, resulting in an increase in company was again poor, sales were lower and profits sterling of 3% to 65.6 million.
Trading conditions in were well down: remedial actions have been taken and Japan were very depressed and sales were down, with some reorganisation costs were incurred.
In Poland the resultant effect on profitability.
By contrast, our and Switzerland conditions were difficult and sales and business in China produced a good result and again profits were down.
However good sales increases grew sales and profits: we have a relatively small share were achieved in Czech, Denmark, Italy, Norway, of this market, offering good opportunities for the Portugal, Spain and Sweden and profits were up.
There was a reduction in project work in Korea Germany, sales were flat and profits were marginally which held back business at below 2001 levels but ahead in spite of tough market conditions and active cost controls allowed us to increase our margin Hygromatik did well.
The factories in France and so profits were only marginally down.
In Malaysia and Holland experienced steady demand in 2002 and Singapore, the industrial sector was weak with inward stocks were reduced as part of the working capital investment being diverted to China and sales and control programme.
Australia, India, New Zealand, South Africa, Taiwan and Thailand all grew sales and The operating profit in Continental Europe was 13.6 profits.
The overall result was an operating profit million and was adversely affected by the results in increase of 5% to 9.8 million despite an adverse 1 1 France but benefited by about 2 million from the exchange movement of 2 million and the operating stronger euro.
This compares with an operating profit profit margin increased.
In January 2002, we of 13.4 million in 2001. announced the acquisition of Marford Engineering in Australia for 1 million.
Marford is a water treatment chemicals specialist and has already contributed to the development of our boiler water treatment business in Australia.
8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 11 success at Dreher in Hungary Following a steam system management presentation at Dreher Brewery, Spirax Sarco entered into a venture to provide knowledge, services and products in the reconstruction of their steam and condensate piping systems.
The customers requirements were to reduce natural gas and steam consumption and improve production efficiency, all of which would result in reduced operating costs.
This could only be achieved by improvement in the quality of the steam: the elimination of serious shock loading water hammer in steam and condensate pipe lines: reducing live and flash steam losses: correctly selected and installed steam traps with an electronic monitoring system and elimination of cavitation problems in the electric condensate return pumps, all of which would result in reduced costs for operating and maintaining the steam and condensate systems.
Following completion of plant surveys and technical discussions, Spirax Sarco advised on the full scope of works needed to fulfil the brewerys requirements.
This resulted in orders to Spirax Sarco for a wide range of steam traps and control equipment.
The Dreher brewery has a capacity of 2.1 million hectolitres of beer and following the first phase of recommended improvements, the brewery annual natural 3 gas consumption fell by 1,987,900 m, and 3 by a further 1,739,600 m in the second year after all system improvements had been completed.
The total project resulted in a 32% reduction in gas consumption that provided an impressive 3.5 month payback on the total investment.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 9 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 12 chief executives review continued americas balance sheet and cash flow Capital employed net assets excluding goodwill and net debt decreased to 161.6 million at 31st December 2002 from 176.6 million at the start of the year, in spite of the increase in business during the year.
There was a reduction in working capital: in particular stock reductions were achieved, most notably in our manufacturing units.
Exchange rate movements reduced capital employed by 7.4 million versus 2001.
Additions to fixed assets were 11.5 Our Americas operations produced good results in million and were marginally below the depreciation 2002 despite significant adverse exchange rate charge for the year.
The return on capital employed movements.
Sales were down 3% but, excluding the improved from 24% to 26%.
adverse effect of exchange, organic sales were up 5%.
Operating profits increased 23% at constant exchange Cash flow for the year was unusually strong with an rates: the profit growth was spread broadly across the inflow from operating activities of 58.6 million 2001: region.
In the USA, the Watson-Marlow Bredel 50.0 million, benefiting from the improved profit and business produced an excellent year for sales and success in reducing working capital.
Acquisitions profits, winning some good projects.
The Spirax Sarco absorbed 1.4 million.
For the year, there was a 17.8 company in the USA saw sales fall as the industrial million reduction in net debt resulting from cash flows, sector of the economy cut back: we implemented including an adverse exchange impact of 1.2 million.
sales initiatives to mitigate the effects of the depressed At 31st December 2002, net debt was therefore 22.7 market.
Despite the lower sales, the operating profit million compared with 40.5 million a year earlier.
Net grew in 2002 through improved efficiency and reduced gearing reduced to 15% 2001: 29%.
costs: here too stocks were reduced through improved controls.
Our Canadian company produced another On an actuarial basis, the main UK pension funds were good performance.
In Argentina, the collapse of the broadly in balance at the last triennial valuation at 31st currency and economy was counteracted by our December 2001, resulting in the annualised rate of careful sales and cash conservation strategy, which, cash contribution increasing by approximately 1.0 with our exports in US dollars, meant that profits million, as recommended by the actuary.
The FRS 17 increased in 2002 - a good achievement under the disclosures see note 29 to the accounts in respect of prevailing conditions.
In Brazil, the company increased all the Group's defined benefit pension schemes show local currency sales and profit, but devaluation of the that, on this basis, there is a net deficit of 35 million at Real reduced the sterling result.
The Mexican market is the balance sheet date.
still in recession: we increased sales and profits in local currency but not in sterling.
The overall result for the region was a 19% increase in operating profit to 11.3 million and a profit margin increase to 12.6% from 10.3% in 2001.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 13 success at Green Spot in Thailand Spirax Sarco Thailand successfully satisfies Green Spots requirements for constant temperature hot water and prevention of waterhammer pipe work shock loading with the EasiHeat packaged plate heat exchanger.
Green Spot Thailand Ltd. produces and distributes drinks and beverages in the domestic market.
Its wellknown products are Green Spot, a non-carbonated orange drink and Vitamilk, a soymilk with several varieties including UHT, sterilised, no powder milk added formula, and V-Soy.
Beverage companies need large quantities of hot water for regular cleaning of their complete manufacturing process including storage tanks for both raw material and the finished products.
High standards of quality are set for the process washing water that determines the method for both production and storage of the water.
Selected equipment needs to provide accurate control of the process water temperature without causing problems in the steam and process pipe work.
Green Spot is one of many beverage companies that need stable hot water in their process and who experience the added problem of having limited installation space for equipment.
Spirax Sarco supplied the ideal solution to both their quality and space problem with the EasiHeat steam to hot water generator.
The package provided Green Spot with a fully engineered system that produces hot water at a constant temperature and being compact in size, limited take up of expensive factory floor space.
The EasiHeat unit uses a highly efficient plate type heat exchanger controlled by the latest range of Spirax Sarco controls, which eliminated problems in both the steam and process piping systems.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 11 A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 14 chief executives review continued Our growth plans continue to include a proactive looking forward acquisitions policy.
However, our insistence on As already discussed, the Spirax-Sarco Engineering remaining focused on our area of expertise means that Group is focused on its markets where it has a world we are only prepared to consider specific companies leading position - specifically in the industrial steam which are in the markets that interest us.
This limits the using market and the peristaltic pumping market.
opportunities but helps to ensure that those which are These are niche markets where we offer specialist considered are more likely to be integrated knowledge, service and products to the end-user, successfully.
OEMs, contractors and through distributors.
Even as market leader, we have a small share of the steam It is clear, therefore, that there is ample scope market, which is fragmented, and the peristaltic for us to continue to grow in the long term.
pumping market is growing steadily.
So, we have the opportunity to continue to grow the business in the future.
This will be done by developing and improving the products that we offer, for instance through the new initiatives in steam system management and prefabricated engineered systems which are based on our technical strengths and development of our own in-house tubing in Watson-Marlow Bredel.
We will M. J. D. STEEL Chief Executive increase our sales coverage in order to push up our market share.
There are opportunities for geographical growth, with the world's biggest economies offering good potential as well as the less developed countries.
We will also continue to improve our efficiency through systems improvements and capital investments to improve our competitiveness.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2002 7 3 03 6:26 pm Page 15 success at Fibra Dupont in Brazil Spirax Sarco Brazil helped textile manufacture, Fibra DuPont, save energy and related costs by detecting problems with their steam system, found during a Spirax Sarco steam system survey.
Fibra DuPont is the largest single man-made fibre manufacturer in Brazil and is a joint venture between Vicunha and DuPont founded in 1994.
Hydroelectric power is a main source of energy in Brazil and during 2001 low river water levels induced an energy crisis compounded by rapidly increasing domestic oil prices.
Many organisations suddenly found themselves having to dramatically cut their energy usage in order to maintain production and to remain competitive.
Spirax Sarco approached Fibra DuPont with a payback presentation, offering a combination of products, packaged systems and ancillaries, installation, surveys, and after-sales service.
Keen to solve their energy problems, Fibra DuPont opted for a Spirax Sarco steam system survey.
This resulted in an energy saving proposal that included automatic boiler controls, flow metering, EasiHeat hot water generator packages and flash steam recovery equipment.
Following the approval of the proposal and installation of the new equipment, Fibra Dupont immediately began saving $25,000 per month in energy costs resulting in an impressive two-month payback on their investment.
As a result of the actual savings, Spirax Sarco have now been awarded a full system survey contract.
