Chief Executives statement The groups advance over the past few years has been driven by a strategy that remains appropriate for todays markets.
Our concentration on this strategy and our continued investment into new developments should fuel our longer-term growth.
The markets in which we operate transfer of technology and products from other parts of the In order to put our 2002 results into context, it is important group.
We are also introducing the TNS Sport monitoring to understand the operating environment.
To do this, it is service into China, ahead of the Beijing Olympics.
Our helpful to split the market into its constituent parts.
concentration on one of the worlds fastest-growing economies is a further example of how we are investing in Syndicated business, such as consumer panels and television the future of the group.
audience measurement services, together with continuous tracking contracts, maintained their growth.
Media Focus on key account management Intelligence, however, was affected by the poor advertising An important development in the industry is the increased and public relations environment and, although our business emphasis on key account management.
This has enabled us was flat, we believe that the market for these services to develop significant business with clients such as probably declined.
On the customised ad hoc side, there Motorola, McDonalds, AstraZeneca and Novartis.
In each were regional variations but the market became weaker as case, the depth of our global coverage, sector expertise and the year progressed and will not recover substantially until range of services have been important factors.
we see some economic recovery.
The success of this approach is exemplified by our Growing fast in Asia Pacific appointment as IBMs primary corporate research provider.
The Asia Pacific region still accounts for a relatively small Under this agreement, IBM will outsource its corporate percentage of our turnover but the performance in 2002 headquarters market information needs to TNS.
This illustrates our ability to push ahead in areas with the includes customer commitment and global brand research greatest growth potential.
Over the past few years, we have covering over 85 countries and will use TNS branded been investing steadily in consumer panels in Asia and now solutions.
There is further potential to build up Responding to demand for increased analysis this business through the introduction of new products and and understanding services, many of which will be modelled on those already A further change in the market information industry, used by our European panels.
which benefits TNS, is the growing demand from clients We operate in 13 countries in the region but our largest for increasingly sophisticated analysis and solutions-based business is now in China, where the group has established a services.
The television audience A recent contract win illustrates how we are able to meet measurement service, operated by our joint venture, this demand.
In early 2003, in France, we developed an monitors the viewing habits of more people than any other innovative system for advising clients on the optimum service in the world.
During 2002, we increased to 16 the media selection for all their consumer communications.
number of cities in which we run metered panels and we This approach combines expertise from various parts of our have 85 diary panels.
business and was instrumental in securing a major contract At the same time, our Media Intelligence and Consumer from Renault Nissan.
Panel activities grew significantly, benefiting from the 16 TNS annual report 2002 This demand for analytical solutions also applies to network, sector spread and mix of continuous syndicated television audience measurement TAM, leading to the and customised activities, which we believe to be unique success of InfoSysTV, the groups integrated analysis within our industry.
system, which is now in use in 12 countries.
Following its We will continue to invest in developments that position recent introduction into the UK, virtually all broadcasters, the group at the forefront of the industry and that should including the BBC, are now using the system as their drive organic growth.
We continue to invest in InfoSysTV We are targeting an operating margin in excess of 10 per cent and new modules will be introduced during 2003. in 2003, as we benefit from the actions taken in 2002, One planned adaptation is to enable the system to analyse together with an ongoing focus on cost control and progress data from the Portable People Meter PPM, the new in business mix.
approach to audience measurement that we are marketing in With the current political and economic uncertainty, it is conjunction with its developer, Arbitron.
TNS recently won difficult to predict the group's outlook for the year as a a contract with two Belgian broadcasting companies to whole.
January saw a steady start to the year, with total research both the listening and viewing habits of the Flemish committed orders ahead of 2002. community.
This is the first commercial implementation of a PPM panel in the world, although we have been successfully using the technology within our TAM service in Singapore for the past two years.
The ability to monitor both television and radio exposure with the same device opens up tremendous opportunities for insight into audience behaviour.
We are about to start an extensive test of this system in Russia, where TNS already Mike Kirkham Chief Executive operates a TAM service.
Looking ahead In 2003, we expect our markets to progress along broadly similar lines to the previous year.
Syndicated panel and continuous services should maintain steady growth, while Media Intelligence and customised ad hoc are dependent on the recovery in advertising public relations and the economic environment respectively.
Given these factors, we do not expect the overall market to achieve growth above the low single digit level.
TNS will maintain its focus on initiatives that allow the group to derive the maximum benefit from its global www.
