This is Taylor Woodrow FACTS & FIGURES BALTIC QUAY This development showcases our combined strengths TW Construction by application of skill is building it and TW Developments is both selling the homes and developing the commercial part of the scheme.
Indeed, it was our skill in property development that first highlighted the opportunity for the site in the mid 1990s.
Set at the southern tip of the stunning Gateshead Millennium Bridge, Baltic Quay will comprise a collection of 241 Glasgow Harbour apartments, a cinema, four-star hotel, Quartermile, restaurants, bars and a 1200-space car Edinburgh park.
The first phase of 108 apartments, released in August 2002, were all sold Macintosh Village, in the first weekend.
Work started in 2001 and the development is due for completion in 2006 7.
We offer integrated development solutions using our core in-house skills of housing, commercial development, construction and specialist engineering.
Being able to offer this unique mix of expertise gives us the capability to tackle the most complex schemes and we are currently involved in some of the largest projects currently under development in the UK.
Baltic Quay is a 100 million regeneration scheme on the banks of the River Tyne in Gateshead.
Our Macintosh Village development in Manchesters southern gateway offers 50,000 sq m of residential units and 3,000 sq m of commercial space.
With our partners, Royal Bank of Scotland and Kilmartin Property, we will be developing 20 acres on the site of the former Edinburgh Royal Infirmary to include residential, retail, hotel, leisure facilities and office space.
Glasgow Harbour will transform a derelict site on the Clyde into 2500 homes together with retail, leisure and hotel facilities.
10 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 FACTS & FIGURES GREENWICH MILLENNIUM VILLAGE Greenwich Millennium Village is one of our most prestigious urban regeneration This is Taylor Woodrow schemes.
It provides a solution to the problems of creating new towns and villages: a real alternative to the sprawling new housing estates that lack the amenities that make for civilised living.
By building to the highest standards, using best practice and the most advanced technology, we have established sustainable methods of construction and innovative construction techniques for the future.
Through recycling plasterboard, for example, we significantly reduced construction waste and found a more cost effective way to dispose of materials.
The Village includes almost 1,400 new homes, 20 per cent of which will be available for part purchase through shared ownership or for affordable by innovative housing units.
Our homes in this development all carry the BREEAM eco homes excellence rating.
thinking Research and development is important to our business and we will only remain competitive by enhancing our products and services and improving our efficiency.
The home of the future will utilise many new techniques, increasing efficiency and flexibility of design.
Many of our homes are already wired for interactive living using Category 5 wiring and coaxial cables for transmitting data, audio and video.
The Botanica home in California is one example.
Techniques such as 3D modelling help us manage many design interfaces as we build, making us more efficient.
Factory manufactured products such as pod bathrooms and kitchens provide off the shelf, high quality finishes and easy installation which supports our aim of zero defects on handover to our customers.
At Newcastle Great Park we have built six homes with solar panels in the roof.
Over the next two years, working with their owners, we will test how much energy they produce to assess whether this type of technology could be applied more widely.
Newcastle Great Park will offer 2500 energy efficient homes and commercial development set in 442 hectares of parkland.
This pod bathroom is at Montevetro, our prestigious development in London, where some apartments sold for over 1 million.
The Botanica home in California.
12 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 13
