Chief Executives review The Groups emphasis on mass consumer related sectors and our open-book business model which accounts for 70% of activities provides resilience against a general economic slowdown.
Mike Arrowsmith Chief Executive This, together with our clear Macro-economic and rates, turnover was up by strategic focus and key market geo-political changes drive the 11% to 605.3m and operating leadership positions, continues development of trans-national profit before goodwill to represent a sound basis for manufacturing and retailing.
amortisation increased by 8% sustained growth.
Global sourcing and the to 15.9m.
During the year complexities of the extended organic growth of 56.0m During 2002 we further supply chain add further to more than replaced the strengthened our management the potential for outsourcing turnover from the Kmart teams and streamlined our and change management in contract, discontinued in organisational structures.
both our established core May 2001, and the Oshawa The appointment of Saad markets and our strategic contract, which was taken inHammad to lead the European development markets like house following its acquisition team will facilitate the China and Latin America.
The Dimalsa integration of our activities business in Mexico, acquired across Europe.
We continue The Americas in March 2002, is meeting to invest in information Operations in the Americas expectations and before technology and in the continue to show strong goodwill amortisation development of our people.
At constant exchange contributed 1.9m to operating profit.
Hams Hall Extending the customer In North America we continue franchise.
Sainsburys to reinforce our market giant Hams Hall fullment leadership position in grocery factory just outside retail, whilst extending our Birmingham, UK, is shown in the final stage of presence in the non-food construction.
This retail and fast moving automated 855,000 sq ft consumer product ambient and chilled manufacturing sectors.
distribution centre is now the largest operated by the In the United States we Group in the UK and Ireland.
expanded our activities in 12 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 the grocery sector with a full the first two sites are being declined by 15% to 18.1m, year of operations for two extended.
We delivered the due mainly to the costs 7-Eleven regional distribution paid consultancy project for associated with closing the centres.
We have also the Canadian Department shared-user UK Fashion enhanced our position in of National Defence DND network and increased the consumer product on the benets of outsourcing insurance premiums across manufacturing sector with their military supply chains, Europe.
These events the start-up of four new sites and this work confirmed the masked the good progress for Procter & Gamble and the savings indicated by the being made in developing operation of three facilities for earlier pilot study.
ConAgra one of the largest the Canadian Government has food manufacturers in the chosen not to proceed with In the UK and Ireland we United States.
During the year the project.
continued to reinforce our we commenced operations market position, extending our partnerships with major SCM clients and broadening In Canada, member company Macro-economic and geo-political changes our overall customer base SCM completed the third new through the application of one million sq ft distribution drive the development of trans-national innovative solutions to their centre for Wal-Mart, the worlds manufacturing and retailing.
SCM has supply chain needs.
During provided exclusive warehousing the year we strengthened and the complexities of the extended supply and distribution services to the management team and chain add further to the potential for Wal-Mart in Canada since 1994 established a single support and in Germany since 1999. infrastructure to serve all outsourcing and change management... our UK activities.
at two sites for JC Penney, The acquisition of the Dimalsa The 9% turnover growth in reinforcing our presence business in Mexico and Puerto UK and Ireland is supported in the clothing sector.
Rico was completed at the by the full-year contribution end of March.
We have of the new Tesco distribution Within the Americas we successfully translated centre at Thurrock and the continue to invest in our customer franchise B&Q import warehouse information technologies into Mexico and since the at Scunthorpe.
In addition, to increase efficiency across acquisition have opened three a number of new operations the supply chain.
The Procter & Gamble regional commenced during the year deployment of sophisticated distribution sites.
The including the Sainsburys demand-planning tools relationship with Kelloggs distribution centre at Corby, have successfully reduced has been extended with the B&Q distribution centre customer inventories and the opening of a new site at Radlett and new operations increased service levels, in Mexicali and additional for Ben Sherman, Gap and the implementation of new business has been won and LVMH.
our web-based electronic with Rubbermaid and Hamilton procurement programme has Beach, to commence in 2003.
In August, after providing led to significant purchasing During the year we improved support services to savings for a number of operational efficiencies Remington since May 2001, clients.
Our transport through deployment of the Group was awarded an management solution, management and systems exclusive long term logistics freightSmart, is using the expertise from our North contract.
In early 2003 our latest technology to reduce American business.
relationship with the Big Food costs and increase service Group was enhanced by the levels.
The web-enabled After restructuring early award of a long term contract liquorconnect.
com initiative in the year, the business to manage the warehousing has resulted in more than in Argentina is now trading and delivery for both Booker 75% of our Western Canadian profitably.
Cash & Carry and Iceland Mexico licensed liquor business being supermarkets throughout Since the acquisition of Dimalsa booked in real time over the Europe Scotland, Northern England Mexicos largest logistics internet with resultant savings Our European business and Northern Ireland.
service provider in March, throughout the supply chain.
outperformed a generally the Group has introduced both slower market with turnover, After the closure of the management and systems In Canada a third, new one at constant exchange rates, shared-user network from the North American business.
As a result, we are million sq ft distribution centre increasing by 9% to 837.8m.
operations, the UK-based already successfully translating for Wal-Mart was completed However operating profit Fashion business has been our customer franchise.
early in the year and already before goodwill amortisation reshaped and is actively Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 13 Chief Executives review continued developing into mainland Under FRS 17 accounting Womens Secret in Spain and Europe, where there is an rules the scheme showed a further Corteel business identied pipeline of new a net deficit of 72.1m at which will commence in 2003. business opportunities.
We are also working to In the grocery sector we extend our supply chain offer In mainland Europe, turnover, strengthened our relationships with major trans-national operators such as Auchan, During the year we extended our fashion opening new operations in both France and Hungary.
sector expertise and customer franchise We continued development in Remington across Europe.
Major new business included After a successful 15-month the fresh produce sector with project to streamline its UK the extension of the Valencia an operation to co-ordinate, plan and manage supply chain, the Group was site in Spain.
In Germany a all primary transport across Europe and the awarded a new long term second distribution centre for logistics contract by Remington.
Wal-Mart became operational Middle East for Levi Strauss & Co... in March 2003.
In Benelux we successfully reduced our cost at constant exchange rates, base and further improved increased by 12% to 225.3m customer service levels.
as we continued to develop our operations in France, In Central and Eastern Europe Benelux, Spain and Eastern our Hungarian business Europe.
Following a strong performed exceptionally start, operating profit declined well and successfully opened in the second half due to new operations for Delhaize, higher insurance costs and Auchan and added Bestfoods.
the exceptionally poor summer In the Czech Republic we that affected our closed-book commenced operations for drinks and ice-cream Interspar, but in Poland, the operations in France and Spain.
difficult economic situation depressed customer volumes, During the year we extended resulting in our closed book Unilever and consolidate our position our fashion sector expertise operation at Raciborz RFID smart tagging trials were undertaken in 2002, involving in key offshore manufacturing and customer franchise across operating below capacity.
the distribution of six-packs of centres in Romania, Morocco, Europe.
Major new business Lynx deodorant for Lever Turkey and China.
included an operation to International Faberg Unilevers home and co-ordinate, plan and manage Our International operations personal care products company.
In April 2002 a full actuarial all primary transport across in Asia, the Middle East and valuation confirmed that the Europe and the Middle East Africa continue to develop UK dened benefit pension for Levi Strauss & Co and rapidly.
At constant exchange scheme was fully funded the start-up of a major textile rates, turnover was up by 42% under the Minimum Funding distribution centre supporting to 73.8m and operating profit Requirement regulations over 2,300 retail outlets increased by 113% to 1.3m.
We have now closed nationwide for Intermarch.
the dened benefit scheme Other additions in the fashion In China, a key emerging to new entrants and increased sector included Hugo Boss market for the Group, our employee contributions.
and Gap in France, Forum and 50:50 joint venture with 14 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Hutchison Whampoa In the Middle East our continues to grow rapidly.
partnership with the Olayan Operations include the Group in Saudi Arabia is well management of an asset established and is providing light, national distribution supply chain management services to a wide range of consumer product companies, including ColgatePalmolive, Henkel, KimberlyClark and Kraft Foods.
In Dubai we have taken over the management of the Al Futtaim logistics operations, which provide supply chain management support to a range of franchisee operations in the region.
The South Africa business continues to develop satisfactorily, helped by Olayan the full-year contribution from The Olayan Tibbett & Britten network already delivering to the Kinesis business that joint venture at Al Khobar, over 350 cities across China specialises in supply chain Saudi Arabia, extended its mainly on behalf of major management services for customer base.
Elsewhere, international manufacturers, Tibbett & Britten Middle including Procter & Gamble, East was formed as a wholly Operations include the management of Warner Lambert and Siemens.
Group-owned entity, Over the past three years an asset light, national distribution network responding to increasing we have also established opportunities for further already delivering to over 350 cities across growth in the region.
a significant presence in the management of domestic China mainly on behalf of major supply chains within the retail international manufacturers... sector for customers including B&Q, Park N Shop, and Wu Mei.
During the year ethical pharmaceutical we commenced warehouse and personal healthcare operations for P&G at Chengdu manufacturers.
Earlier this year Technologies transport we opened a major purposemanagement software is now built warehouse for retailer fully deployed and is not only HuaPu and in April 2003 reducing costs but is also a we will take over the major source of new business.
management of a third P&G Other new business during warehouse in Shanghai.
There the year included taking over is a strong pipeline of new the management of the Kraft business from both retailers national distribution centre and manufacturers.
We have extended our activities into other parts of Asia through the establishment of a joint venture in Thailand with Corteel Davids Asia and in Malaysia Mike Arrowsmith Our fashion sector operations with Kontena Nasional.
Chief Executive continue to grow across These joint ventures Europe and elsewhere.
complement our existing During the year we were activities in Taiwan, Hong appointed by Corteel Group Kong and Singapore.
Womens Secret to manage a central warehouse serving the prominent Spanish fashion companys domestic and international stores.
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 15
