Chief Executives Review total commitment to our customers and our shareholders Julian Blogh, Chief Executive airport IT activity, represented less than Air & Land Systems worlds largest supplier of sonobuoys, the ULTRA ELECTRONICS AGAIN PRODUCED EXCELLENT 12% of the Groups 2002 sales.
Air & Land Systems, with the addition of TCS, Group continued to increase its market share RESULTS IN 2002, ACHIEVING RECORD LEVELS OF SALES, Successful comprises eleven businesses in the UK and of new orders with major contracts being won The operating margin, before the amortisation North America that supply advanced in the US, the UK, Canada, France and PROFIT AND ORDER INTAKE.
CONFIRMING THE QUALITY of goodwill, was 12.9%, slightly below that technology products for military aircraft and Australia.
Ultras traditional dominance of the strategy recorded in 2001.
This margin reduction OF EARNINGS, THE CONVERSION OF OPERATING PROFIT land vehicles, the anti-submarine warfare export market for passive sonobuoys is now resulted mainly from the lower level of civil Increased shareholder value through market and the civil aerospace market.
being complemented by its ability to win TO OPERATING CASH FLOW WAS 116%.
aerospace spares and repairs activity during organic growth in niche markets and major active sonobuoy awards with a the period.
Operating profit, before the Sales growth in the division was 7.5% to strategic acquisitions Successes in the year included the award of Montreal, Canada, designs and manufactures competitive new design which recently amortisation of goodwill, increased by 5.6%, 177.5m 2001: 165.1m.
Organic growth the largest contract received by the Group military high bandwidth line-of-sight radios, a entered production.
while profit before tax and amortisation rose was 3.4%.
Operating profit before goodwill to date and the signing of a partnership critical part of command and control systems.
In recognition of Ultras record in meeting its intent memorandum on sonobuoys with the Major customers include the US Department effective tax rate for the Group was 1% Reduced civil aerospace spares and repair commitments as a supplier of sonobuoys to Defence Procurement Agency of the UK of Defense DoD, the UK MoD and the higher at 27.1%.
As a result, earnings per activity, combined with the completion of the MoD, a memorandum of intent to partner Ministry of Defence MoD.
TCS strengthens Ultras share before goodwill amortisation were deliveries to the US Navy of sonobuoys on has been signed between Ultra and the MoD.
position in Battlespace IT, an area of Group strategy 9.1% higher at 33.2p 2001: 30.5p, as older low margin contracts, contributed to the The final agreement, when signed, will bind increasing military expenditure, and The Group continues to focus its strategy on restated following the adoption of FRS 19. reduction in operating margin to 12.7% Ultra and the MoD together, with Ultra being complements its existing data link activities.
being a niche supplier of electronic systems 2001: 14.6%.
The effect was somewhat the developer and supplier of all sonobuoys Operating cash ow was very strong at and products in defence and aerospace Group results mitigated, however, by the excellent growth of and derivative products to the MoD for a 38.7m 2001: 35.2m after capital markets.
In order to strengthen its niche Sales increased to 260.4m, 2001: 239.5m, HiPPAG deliveries for both the US Navy and period of at least ten years.
expenditure, with an operating profit to positions, the Group continued its high level a rise of 8.7%, of which 5.8% was organic.
operating cash ow conversion of 116%.
During the year, Ultras commitments were of investment in the application of advanced This encouraging sales increase was This brings the average conversion ratio The year produced a number of notable met on the Nimrod, Euroghter and Engineer technology to create new products in its achieved despite the translation impact of over the past five years to 85%.
In March, Ultra was awarded a Tank System programmes, with development chosen markets, coupled with the acquisition the weaker US dollar without which growth the acquisition of TCS for 21.5m before 20m contract to develop and deliver the bow milestones being achieved and deliveries being of complementary businesses.
Ultras 2002 would have been 2% higher.
Sales growth expenses, net debt during the year decreased sonar for the Royal Navy's Type 45 destroyer.
results show the success of this strategy was driven primarily by a rising demand for by 1.3m to 39.3m 2001: 40.6m.
This was Ultras first major ship sonar contract through both the operating results reported Battlespace IT systems, an increase in the and was achieved in collaboration with our US The Groups order book at the year-end and the Groups record order book at the delivery of anti-submarine warfare partner, EDO Corporation.
Further success in 9% 11% stood at a record level of 348m, an year-end.
equipment and higher production of the an associated eld came with the award of increase of 10% compared to the same HiPPAG missile cooling product.
Sales of civil Sales Acquisition the main part of the Surface Ship Torpedo Profits point last year 2001: 315m.
This aerospace products declined in line with Reecting increased demand for In accordance with its strategy, in September Defence contract in July, bringing the total Profit before tax and amortisation represents the equivalent of approximately both the reduction of Airbus aircraft Battlespace IT systems, growth in sales 2002 Ultra completed the acquisition of contract value to 54m, Ultras largest single increased by 11% to 29.9m 15 months of future sales.
deliveries and reduced demand for spares of Anti-Submarine Warfare equipment MilComm, now renamed Tactical contract to date.
2001: 27.1m and repairs from airlines as they attempted and higher production of HiPPAG Communication Systems TCS, for C$53m In anti-submarine warfare, where Ultra is the to move back into profit.
TCS, based in civil aerospace business, including the see definition on page 6 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Chief Executives Review 348m 116% 54m 9% Order book Cash performance Largest ever contract received Earnings per share The order book of 348m, an increase Cash ow was very strong at 38.7m Successes in the year included the Earnings per share were 9% higher of 10%, represents the equivalent 2001: 35.2m with an operating award of the largest contract received at 33.2p 2001: 30.5p of about 15 months of future sales profit to operating cash conversion by Ultra to date, valued at 54m of 116% THE OUTLOOK FOR THE GROUP REMAINS STRONG, Orders Completed WITH RECENT IMPORTANT CONTRACT WINS IN Ultra increased its share of the Strategic acquisition sonobuoy market with orders from THE UK AND IN EXPORT MARKETS LAYING THE The acquisition of TCS strengthens the US, the UK, Canada, France Ultras position in Battlespace IT FOUNDATIONS FOR FURTHER BUSINESS GROWTH.
and Australia Information & Sea Systems equipment as part of the rail infrastructure Reporting in 2003 The civil aerospace market is not expected to Information & Sea Systems consists of seven upgrade for the south of England.
This is Ultra has expanded in capability, in products recover for at least the next twelve months Partnership businesses in the UK and North America that expected to lead to an increasing involvement and in the number of operating businesses with Ultras sales in this market likely to supply information management and power by Ultra in this high investment sector.
Ultras tworemain static over this period.
However, with with MoD products for defence, commercial and airport divisional reporting structure therefore no this sector representing less than 12% of While civil aerospace continues to operate An intent to act in partnership has applications worldwide.
longer adequately presents the Group in a Ultras total sales, this will not have a major in a difficult environment, the need for been signed between Ultra and the format related to its activities, neither does it impact on performance.
Overall, non-military Divisional turnover was 82.9m 2001: 74.4m, long-term investment in airport MoD for future sonobuoy supplies provide sufficient detail.
From the beginning activity is expected to rise in absolute terms as an increase of 11.3%, all of which was infrastructure remains, supplemented by of 2003, the Group will report on the basis rail transit, airport IT and security product organic.
Operating profit, before the security concerns.
Ultras work defining the of three divisions, with the objective of sales increase.
amortisation of goodwill, rose by 43.9% to IT infrastructure for London Heathrows new making Ultra easier to understand.
The operating margin fifth terminal continued throughout the The outlook for the Group remains strong, reporting structure is explained in more detail before amortisation was 13.3%, up from year.
In addition, there was an upturn in recent important contract wins in the UK and on page 22.
This resulted from increased demand for Ultras baggage reconciliation in export markets laying the foundations for Battlespace IT activity, improved profitability system, and equipment was installed for Prospects further business growth.
With interest cover Outlook at the airport information systems business British Airways and Virgin Atlantic in their Increasing concerns about the activities of before goodwill amortisation of 9.5 times in and the completion of a number of Astute North American terminals.
rogue states and terrorist organisations is 2002, Ultra enters 2003 with the capacity to With an order book at the year-end equipment development programmes driving an increase in defence expenditure in continue its strategy of organic growth and of 348m and the headroom for Finally, Ultra again met its commitments by allowing higher margins to be taken.
In the US, the defence acquisition of complementary businesses in further acquisitions, the Board is delivering on time initial equipment for the procurement budget for 2003 has risen by order to strengthen its market niches.
These confident of the outlook for the The division benefited from a rise in Astute class submarine, and equipment for 11%, while in the UK defence procurement is factors, coupled with the record closing order current year and beyond government expenditure on Battlespace IT.
the US Virginia class submarine and Air also growing in real terms.
Expenditure is book, give the Board confidence in the There was significant growth in Ultras US Defense Systems Integrators for the DoD.
being concentrated on Battlespace IT, performance of the Group in 2003. activity in this area as efforts are made to unmanned vehicles for air, land and sea and improve the situational awareness of highly mobile systems.
Through its continuing operating forces.
Progress was also made in investments, Ultra is well positioned to benefit the UK with the first order from the MoD from this activity.
for the Groups Air Defense Systems Integrator.
In a related area, BAE Systems Major UK opportunities include: control ordered command systems equipment for electronics for the UKs submarine eet: a the third contract of the Korean KDX new active search sonobuoy system: Julian Blogh, Chief Executive destroyer programme.
electronics for new armoured vehicles and Network Rail trackside power equipment.
In Ultra provides power systems for naval and the US, new opportunities for Ultra are rail transit applications and, in October, initial Operating cash conversion is defined as being operating presented through: the F-35 Joint Strike cash flow less capital expenditure and financial contracts were placed with the Group by investment, as a percentage of operating profit before Fighter programme: the Small Diameter Bomb Network Rail to provide trackside power goodwill amortisation.
programme and Battlespace IT activity.
06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Chief Executives Review meeting our commitment for TACTICAL  systems ULTRA IS COMMITTED TO BEING A WORLD-LEADING SUPPLIER OF MILITARY TACTICAL COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT THAT PROVIDES ENHANCED CAPACITY FOR VOICE, DATA AND VIDEO IMAGES.
15,000 Ultra has over 15,000 line-of-sight tactical radio systems in use worldwide more than any other supplier The success of military operations is world-leading supplier of high-capacity, dependent on the nature of the information dependent upon having secure and robust line-of-sight radio systems.
A key element of military In a trend that mirrors the digitisation of the Ultras radio systems are state of the art tactical communication systems is the wide commercial business environment, the and have been designed to meet user area network for voice and data transmission capabilities of the tactical communication requirements well into the 21st century.
between the various command levels in land system must now accommodate an increasing In order to provide and maintain the most forces.
An essential component of this need for data-based communications, up-to-date battlefield picture, real-time network is the microwave trunk radio which including e-mail and near-real-time video video images of the battlespace and data provides the highway for the trafc between transmissions, in addition to the usual voice from other specialised sensors are captured the system nodes.
This supports the increasing by surveillance equipment mounted in products serve as the backbone of modern data content of modern command and manned and unmanned aerial vehicles.
They provide control systems which depend on the high These various data sources must be linked secure battleeld trunk telephone and high bandwidth wide area communications system.
together and the information passed to the capacity data telecommunication services to To be tactically useful, communication needs battlespace network.
Ultra specialises in the link battleeld theatre commanders and their to be secure.
Attempts will constantly be supply of data links to allow ground-based combat forces.
made to intercept radio traffic or to jam operators to control multiple remotely To satisfy the high mobility needs of the transmissions.
The need for security can be piloted aircraft simultaneously.
In addition, tactical environment, users are demanding met through techniques such as frequency Ultras data links are used to transmit digital ever-greater transmission distances, increased hopping and encryption.
By transmitting battlespace information from aircraft to reliability and low error performance of the data at different frequencies, the system can ground based centres in real-time using link.
Systems must also make efficient use of reduce its susceptibility to enemy secure and robust communications.
In satisfying all interference or jamming.
In addition, several of these requirements, Ultra has become a levels of data encryption can be provided Ultras advanced data link equipment for unmanned aircraft Specialist cryptography equipment for secure communications Ultra supplies secure battleeld radio communication systems 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Chief Executives Review meeting our commitment for SONAR enhanced sonar capability ULTRA IS COMMITTED TO DEVELOPING WORLD-CLASS UNDERWATER BATTLESPACE EQUIPMENT TO MEET THE CHALLENGE OF TORPEDO ATTACK FROM MODERN, STEALTHY SUBMARINES.
170,000 Ultra supplied over 170,000 sonobuoys in 2002 to a total of 15 countries around the world Submarines pose an enormous threat to Ultra upgraded the mission equipment on As a further layer of defence against torpedo ships in wartime.
Small, highly capable diesel the UKs existing fleet of Nimrod MR2 attack, ships can be equipped with a torpedo electric submarines are difficult to detect aircraft and continued to supply systems for defence system such as the Surface Ship especially when the underwater battlespace the new MRA4 Nimrod.
In 2002, is noisy, cluttered, shallow coastal waters.
Ultra received the main contract to supply In this underwater battlespace, Ultras Increasingly, though, this is where navies are SSTD to the Royal Navy.
The system detects commitment to providing ever more capable, having to operate.
The threat of torpedo and locates incoming torpedoes and provides cost-effective solutions has been rewarded in attack is ever present and, in times of war, the means to decoy or jam their homing 2002.
Ultra won all UK sonobuoy mines may litter the coastal waters.
It also gives the captain of the requirements, half of the contracts in the ship tactical advice on ship manoeuvres.
Ultra is the world leader at designing and USA and Canada and important export Ultra has already successfully demonstrated supplying advanced sonobuoys, the highly contracts from France, Australia and the in-water performance of key elements of sensitive acoustic sensors that are dropped Sweden.
In late 2002, Ultra signed an intent the SSTD system.
from maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters.
to act in partnership with the UK MoD Ultra supplies more than half of the western covering the development and procurement An even higher level of protection from worlds sonobuoys.
Dropping an array of of future sonobuoy and derivative systems.
attack can be provided around harbour active and passive sonobuoys into the sea entrances or in critical shipping lanes.
Here, Modern warships are equipped with sensitive allows even the quietest target submarine to Ultras expertise in expendable sonobuoys, bow-mounted sonar equipment, a key be tracked and, if necessary, attacked.
The data fusion and in-buoy processing is being element of the ships own defences, which signal from the sonobuoy, carrying acoustic used to develop long-life multi-sensor can detect submarines in the area or mines information about the target, is relayed back tactical surveillance systems.
that are capable of disabling the ship if to an aircraft overhead where Ultras highly triggered.
Ultra was awarded a major sensitive acoustic receivers and processors contract in the year to supply the UKs new are used to evaluate the data.
In the year, Type 45 destroyer with its bow sonar system.
Ultra is developing the bow sonar for the Type 45 destroyer Ultra is the world-leading supplier of sonobuoy systems The Nimrod MR2s mission system has been upgraded by Ultra 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Chief Executives Review meeting our commitment through AIRCRAFT & VEHICLES fullling thecustomer requirement ULTRA PROVIDES A BROAD RANGE OF ADVANCED ELECTRONIC, ELECTROMECHANICAL AND MECHANICAL SOLUTIONS FOR THE MOST CHALLENGING OF CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS.
Advanced Ultras advanced grips and hand controls are used on at least six different unmanned vehicle programmes Ultras products can be found on the worlds HCI equipment is used not only in advanced cancellation equipment on a C130 aircraft.
latest aircraft, manned and unmanned, fixed cockpits such as that on Euroghter but also in This trial improved the aircrews working and rotary wing.
Ultra supports all stages of the control suite for unmanned aerial vehicles.
environment by reducing significantly the the customer programmes, from concept In the USA, Ultra has accelerated the noise levels in the cockpit.
Ultra also studies to in-service support.
development and production of HCI equipment demonstrated its innovative active propeller to support several such programmes.
Ultra balancing system on the powerplant for the The American F A-18 E F Super Hornet enhanced the scope of its supply of cockpit existing fleets of C130 transport and P3 aircraft is flying extended missions over equipment on the EH101 helicopter to reduce maritime surveillance aircraft.
Afghanistan, fitted with Ultras HiPPAG Agusta Westlands total procurement cost.
HiPPAG provides a Ultra frequently responds to urgent customer constant, controlled flow of high pressure Ultra is committed to supporting Pilatus in requirements.
In the USA, Ultra met the need pure air to cool the seekers of the aircrafts Switzerland with rapid development of the for rapidly prototyped drivers grips and defensive missiles, keeping them ready for displays on the PC21 trainer aircraft so as to handles for technology demonstrations to suit action.
HiPPAG performs beyond the emulate the cockpit of the aircraft onto the Future Combat System armoured vehicle capability of the traditional solution, thereby which the trainee pilot will graduate.
In the UK, Ultra was selected to meeting a vital operational requirement.
be a key selling feature of the PC21 which meet tight development timescales for the Alvis had its first flight in mid-2002.
Ultra also Vickers Engineer Tank System.
The challenge Ultras HiPPAG controllable compressor is also continued through the year managing the has been met and consequently additions to part of Boeings proposed new, high vital software upgrades of the weapons the scope of the contract have been agreed.
performance weapons ejection system for system of the Tornado aircraft.
This is typical The Bowman programme in the UK upgrades future smart munitions delivery systems.
of the long-term support that Ultra offers to the Armys communication system which will HiPPAG is also being developed for use on such programmes.
be incorporated on armoured vehicles.
Ultra the new Lockheed Martin F-35 Joint Strike will be supplying equipment to help integrate Fighter for smooth munitions ejection.
Ultra completed a highly successful Bowman with other advanced vehicle systems.
demonstration of its unique active noise Ultras advanced Human Computer Interface Ultras landing gear controls will be on easyJet's Airbus aircraft Advanced indirect vision systems for armoured vehicles Ultra demonstrated cockpit noise reduction on C130 Hercules 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 010 Chief Executives Review 1011010 0110 011101 meeting our commitment for 101 INFORMATION improvedinformation management ULTRA SPECIALISES IN SYSTEMS THAT ENHANCE SAFETY, SECURITY AND THE EFFECTIVENESS OF CONTROL THROUGH THE PROVISION OF ACCURATE AND TIMELY DATA.
25 million Ultra has sold printers and, in 2002, enough dye-film to create ID cards for over 25 million people In the USA, the terrorist attacks of keeping forces to communicate effectively Airports and airlines are able to improve the September 2001 highlighted the urgent with the civilian population.
safety and security of commercial flights need for an integrated real-time air picture, when a positive match is maintained between In the year, the Group made on-time bringing together onto one display multiple passengers and their baggage.
The UltraTrak deliveries of computers and display consoles radar plots and intelligence feeds.
Ultras Air baggage reconciliation system is being for the UK Astute submarine programme.
The Defense System Integrator ADSI product supplied to both BA and Virgin in North equipment delivered to the integration facility was ideally placed to act as the computing America and to BAA plc for general use at included key elements of the weapons heart of this system and emergency funding Londons Heathrow airport.
In addition, interfacing and combat management systems.
was made available for the required through its airport IT business, the entire IT Ultra is also supplying critical information development.
Ultras staff responded with infrastructure at the new fifth terminal at processing and networking equipment as part enormous personal commitment to ensure Heathrow will be provided by Ultra.
The of the command and control system for the that the need for enhanced security was relationship with BAA is built on trust with Korean KDX range of destroyers.
The quality culture prevailing in the open collaborative working to meet a Ultra won a contract to supply equipment for team was demonstrated when a right first common goal including joint R&D activities.
the second batch of three KDX-II ships.
time pass was achieved after critical At facilities such as airports, schools and Ultras Olympus collaborative planning integration testing of an enhanced version of similarly sensitive areas, access control is vital system allows real-time, highly mobile ADSI at a government test facility.
to minimise any risk to security.
Ultra has electronic sharing of geographic and tactical In the UK, Ultra responded to an urgent expanded its range of ID card printers with information.
An upgrade to this innovative operational requirement by bidding, winning holographic anti-counterfeiting technology.
battlespace digitisation system was a contract, developing and delivering a This has given Ultra a significant presence in demonstrated that would enhance the mobile high technology multi-media this sector of the access control market.
command and control response to a major communication system in less than twenty incident such as a chemical or biological weeks.
This equipment allows UK peaceterrorist attack.
Ultras range of ID printers increases security of access control Enhanced command and control for major incidents Ultras baggage tracking system used by both BA and Virgin 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Chief Executives Review meeting our commitment through POWER providing powerful solutions ULTRA PROVIDES HIGHLY RELIABLE SOLID-STATE ELECTRICAL POWER SUPPLIES FOR USE WORLDWIDE IN MISSION-CRITICAL APPLICATIONS ON SHIPS, SUBMARINES AND MASS TRANSIT SYSTEMS.
Upgrade Ultra will supply electrical sub-stations as part of Network Rail's upgrade programme for the Southern Region Electrical power provides clean solutions.
needed to build a strong team around them.
Ultra delivered power systems equipment for For naval vessels, solid-state electrical power They needed companies with the right the first Astute submarine which included a supplies are more flexible and tolerant of technologies, skills and capacity and, above range of specialist power supplies, all battle damage than hydraulic systems, as all, the right culture, attitude and will to characterised by a need for the highest quality well as being more reliable, smaller and succeed.
In Ultras PMES business, Network and integrity of supply.
One example is the lighter than rotary converters.
For transport, Rail found these attributes and, as a result, equipment that powers part of the electric rail systems are cleaner and more selected the division to play a key role in the submarines nuclear reactor control system.
efficient than diesel trains or buses.
solution to the Southern Region power Ultra is also a world-leading supplier of supply challenge.
Rising populations and the concentration of equipment to sense and control the those populations in relatively small areas Ultras record of meeting its commitments magnetic signature of naval vessels.
These have led to ever worsening trafc congestion was reinforced during 2002 with the on-time should be degaussed continuously to prevent and have emphasised the need for investment design and delivery of modular sub-stations them from triggering magnetic influence in advanced transportation systems.
A key for installation at Fawkham Junction, to the mines that may litter coastal waters in times element of the solution is the provision or south east of London.
Ultra is providing this specialist upgrade of mass transit systems.
These usually equipment for modern day ships and Ultras capability in transit power systems require direct current electrical supplies and submarines and, in 2002, was selected to mirrors an equivalent capability for defence Ultra has powerful solutions to meet these supply the US Navy T-AKE class of cargo and power systems.
In the UK, the Astute class of customer requirements.
submarine and the Type 45 destroyer are In the UK, Network Rail has embarked on a being developed and Ultra is providing programme to upgrade the power supply for critical power systems for both programmes.
Southern Region trains serving London and For the Type 45 destroyer, Ultra is supplying a the South East.
Network Rail, aware that range of solid-state power supplies and they are working to challenging timescales, associated control equipment.
During the year Specialist power equipment for the USN Virginia submarines Advanced signature management for the Type 45 destroyer Magnetic signature management for USN T-AKE cargo ships 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Financial Review Sales by market sector Civil aerospace 12% Other civil 7% sales rose by 9% to 260.4m Defence 81% arecord level for Sales by destination UK 42% North America 39% the Group Europe 13% ROW 6% David Jeffcoat, Finance Director and Company Secretary Trading results Group-funded R&D expenditure was 10.7m differences and tax deductible goodwill in Acquisition operational needs.
Both the Sterling and US exposure to other currencies is hedged as it Sales rose by 9% to 260.4m, a new record 2001: 10.0m.
Including customer funding the USA.
The net deferred tax asset was Ultra acquired TCS, based in Montreal, Canada, Dollar elements of the facility will fund arises on specific contracts.
Underlying organic the total investment in new product 0.2m at the end of the year.
in September 2002 for a cash consideration of working capital requirements.
The US and Pensions growth was 6% with an additional development was 58.6m 2001: 50.1m, C$53m 21.5m.
The net assets acquired have Canadian Dollar borrowings will provide Earnings per share and dividends The retirement benets of Ultras UK workforce contribution from Tactical Communication equivalent to 22% of turnover.
The biggest been valued provisionally at 1.6m.
The balance hedges for assets denominated in those Earnings per share before amortisation are funded by a combination of dened Systems TCS, acquired in September.
development programmes were Ultras Air of the acquisition cost will be capitalised as currencies.
A further 10m overdraft is also increased by 9% to 33.2p despite the benefit and dened contribution pension Operating profit before goodwill amortisation Defense Systems Integrator in the USA, goodwill and amortised over twenty years, available for working capital funding.
The proposed final dividend schemes, with most staff participating in the was 6% higher at 33.5m, giving an equipment for Astute and the important increasing the Groups annual amortisation is 7.5p, bringing the total dividend to 11.2p The new facility replaces a five-year term loan Ultra Electronics Ltd. dened benefit scheme.
new Surface Ship Torpedo Defence system charge by approximately 1.0m.
The full used to finance the acquisition of the DF Group This scheme was actuarially assessed in April This encouraging result was achieved in spite in the UK.
year dividend is covered 3.0 times by earnings After initial reorganisation costs, TCS made a in 2000.
An interest rate swap that xed the 2001 when its solvency was 105%, or 115% of lower sales and further reorganisation Interest and profit before taxation per share before amortisation, maintaining a 0.5m operating profit before goodwill effective interest rate at 7.7% for the full term on an MFR basis.
As a result of stockmarket costs in Ultras civil aerospace businesses, Interest costs were significantly lower at policy of strong dividend cover.
amortisation in its first three months under of the original loan will remain in place until falls since then, the Company has committed negative currency translation effects and 3.5m, compared to 4.6m in 2001.
The business should make a April 2005, despite the renancing.
At to raise its contributions to the scheme from Cash ow and borrowings higher insurance premiums resulting from the was due partly to lower borrowings, as the positive contribution to profit after financing 31 December 2002, 48% of total debt was at 10% to 13.5% of pensionable pay by 2003, a With its focus upon long-term contracts, 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks.
Group benefited from its recent strong cash costs during the coming year.
oating rates after taking account of the swap, total increase of approximately 0.9m per Ultra regards cash performance as a key Ultra increased its sales in North America, performance.
In addition the interest rates which applied to the first 16.5m of debt.
The scheme is relatively immature, indicator of its financial strength.
It is Financial risk management where the share of total Group sales rose to that applied to Ultras floating rate debt with just 13% of retired members, and remains therefore encouraging that operating cash Ultras financial instruments, other than Foreign currency exposure 39% 2001: 35%.
The rapid increase in were lower than in 2001.
This saving in strongly cash positive.
Ultras US subsidiaries flow, after capital expenditure, was 38.7m derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and Ultras main translation exposure is to the Battlespace IT spending by the US DoD is a interest costs increased profit before tax and Maritime Systems Inc. in Canada operate in the year 2001: 35.2m.
The ratio of trade funding consisting of debtors, creditors US Dollar with lesser exposure to the key driver of this trend and sonobuoy sales and goodwill amortisation to 29.9m, dened contribution schemes.
Employees at operating cash to operating profit was and customer advances.
Group policy prohibits Canadian Dollar.
The average Sterling were also strong in 2002.
Ultra reduced its 11% more than in 2001 27.1m.
The TCS participate in a limited dened benefit 116%, bringing the average conversion ratio speculative transactions and no trading activity exchange rate against these currencies dependence on the UK with sales dropping interest charge was covered 9.5 times by scheme.
Note 24 to these accounts contains to 85% over the past five years.
Investments in financial instruments is undertaken.
Treasury strengthened by 6% during the year, leading to 42% of turnover in the year 2001: 47%.
operating profit before goodwill additional disclosures on Ultras dened benefit in fixed assets were 3.3m, approximately policies are determined by the Group Finance to a reduced contribution from Ultras North Sales in Continental Europe remained at amortisation.
Amortisation of goodwill and pension funding position in accordance with 0.5m less than the depreciation charge and Director, based on forecast business American subsidiaries when their results were 13% of sales, with HiPPAG equipment for intangibles increased to 3.9m 2001: 3.7m UK Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 indicative of Ultras low dependence on requirements, and are reviewed regularly.
The impact upon Eurofighter and Airbus landing gear with 0.26m being charged for the new Retirement Benets.
The FRS 17 valuation at fixed capital investment.
Operating working Group sales and profits was a reduction of Financing computers the main elements.
the end of 2002 showed a deficit of 20.4m capital was reduced by 4.9m in spite of the approximately 2% in both cases.
The Group nances its existing operations and 2001: 7.1m, after deducting the associated 2002 saw Ultras defence sales rise above Taxation 6% organic increase in turnover.
As a result new acquisitions through a mix of retained The principal currency transaction exposure is deferred tax asset.
This was caused by a The effective tax rate on profit before of this strong cash performance, free cash cash and bank borrowings.
During 2002 Ultra to the US Dollar as virtually all civil aerospace combination of lower civil aerospace sales, amortisation was 27%.
This is 1% higher flow before dividends and acquisitions was established a new 80m three-year revolving sales are denominated in US Dollars.
Group higher defence sales in the USA and the than the 2001 rate, which was restated to 28.0m.
Despite making the investment in credit facility with a small syndicate of banks, policy is to hedge the net exposure on orders acquisition of TCS, which is solely a defence reflect the adoption of the new accounting TCS, net debt fell by 1.3m to close the led by The Royal Bank of Scotland.
There will in hand using forward foreign exchange manufacturer.
Civil aerospace activity, at standard FRS 19 in 2002.
The new standard year at 39.3m.
be no interim repayments during the term of contracts, typically extending to 18-24 months.
12% of Group turnover, formed the major has also led to the recognition of deferred the facility.
It is denominated in a range of Exposure to the Canadian Dollar and the part of Ultras sales to the civil sector.
tax assets, brought about mainly by timing currencies to meet balance sheet hedging and Euro is hedged in the same way.
Any David Jeffcoat, Finance Director and Company Secretary 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Board of Directors Peter Macfarlane FCA FCT, Julian Blogh CBE BA MSc PhD CEng MIEE, Andrew Hamment BA, Frank Hope BSc PhD CPhys MInstP, Andrew Walker MA CEng, Non-Executive Chairman, age 64, qualied as Chief Executive, age 59, has spent most of his Marketing Director, age 48, started his career Managing Director, Aircraft & Vehicle Systems, Senior Non-Executive Director, age 51, was a Chartered Accountant with Touche Ross working life in the electronics industry with Hawker Siddeley before moving to age 48, started his career with Tecalemit as a appointed to the board in June 1996.
Joining and, after three years with Coopers & Lybrand working with Ferranti Radar, Plessey Radar Schlumberger in 1980, working in procurement design engineer working on robotics.
He the Dowty Group plc in 1978, he became an joined Kimberley Clark, managing their and Dowty Electronic Systems.
He was and then marketing at Weston Aerospace spent 13 years with Avimo Limited latterly as operating board member during 1991 92. financial affairs in Europe, Africa and the Managing Director of Sonar & Communication before transferring to Solartron as Aerospace Managing Director, having previously held the Following TI Groups acquisition of Dowty, he Middle East.
He joined Rolls Royce in 1979 as Systems from 1987 to 1992, when he was Business Manager.
He joined Dowty in 1988 as positions of Technical Director and Operations became Managing Director of John Crane Group Treasurer and, after a period as appointed Managing Director of Dowty Managing Director of the Controls business.
He joined Ultra in 1994 as Managing Polymer Engineering.
He was Chief Executive Director of Corporate Development, was Avionics.
He became Chief Executive of He was appointed to his current position in Director of the Electrics Division and was of South Wales Electricity plc SWALEC from appointed Finance Director in 1989.
Ultra Electronics when it began trading in July 2000 and joined the board at that time.
appointed to the board of Ultra in January 1993 to 1996, and was Chief Executive of Mr Macfarlane retired from the board of October 1993.
In April 2000 he was appointed to his McKechnie plc from 1997 to 2001.
In 2000, he Allied Domecq plc in 1998 where he had present position.
successfully led the MBO of McKechnie plc.
Mr Sir Frank Holroyd KBE CB MSc FREng CEng been initially Finance Director and Walker is also a non-executive director of Douglas Caster BSc MIEE, FRAeS FIEE CIMgt, subsequently Chairman of two divisions.
He Galileo Innovations plc and Bioganix Limited.
Managing Director, Information & Power Non-Executive Director, age 67, retired from the David Jeffcoat BA FCMA, was appointed to the board of Ultra in Systems, age 49, started as a Design Engineer RAF in 1991 as Air Marshal after 35 years Finance Director and Company Secretary, age January 1995. with Racal in 1975, before moving to service, latterly as Chief of Logistics and Chief 52, started his career in the motor industry as Schlumberger and then to Dowty as Engineer: formerly Chief Engineer of Strike a Production Engineer.
Since qualifying as an Engineering Director of Sonar & Command and Director General of Procurement accountant he has held senior financial Communication Systems in 1988.
In 1992, he MoD for Strategic Electronic Systems.
He is positions in several large corporations became Managing Director of that division Chairman of Composite Technology Ltd, Deputy including GlaxoWellcome plc, where he was and joined the board of Ultra in October 1993.
Chairman of Military Aircraft Spares Ltd and Finance Director of two subsidiaries.
Before In 1999 he became Managing Director of Deputy Chairman of Council at Craneld joining Ultra he was Group Financial Controller Command & Control Systems with University.
Sir Frank was appointed to the board of Smiths Industries plc for three years.
He was responsibility for Ocean Systems, PMES, and of Ultra in March 1995. appointed to the board in July 2000.
In April 2000, he was appointed to his current position.
Audit and Remuneration Committee members 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 The evolution of Ultra Business addresses evolution Tactical & Sonar Systems Aircraft & Vehicle Systems Information & Power Systems ULTRA ELECTRONICS HAS EXPANDED SUBSTANTIALLY SINCE ITS FORMATION.
Flightline Systems Controls Division Advanced Programming Concepts FROM JANUARY 2003, THE GROUP WILL BE ORGANISED INTO THREE DIVISIONS AS 7625 Omnitech Place 417 Bridport Road 3300 Duval Road, Suite 200 Victor Greenford Austin SHOWN BELOW.
THE NEW DIVISIONAL NAMES MORE ACCURATELY REFLECT THE New York 14564-9795 Middlesex UB6 8UA Texas 78759 ACTIVITIES OF THE BUSINESSES IN EACH DIVISION.
USA England USA Tel: 1 585 924 4000 Tel: 44 0 20 8813 4444 Tel: 1 512 327 6795 Fax: 1 585 924 5732 Fax: 44 0 20 8813 4351 Fax: 1 512 327 8043 Maritime Systems Datel Defence Command & Control Systems 40 Atlantic Street 1 Chain Caul Way Knaves Beech Business Centre CONTROLS DIVISION Dartmouth Ashton-on-Ribble Loudwater DATEL DEFENCE Nova Scotia B2Y4N2 Preston PR2 2YL High Wycombe ADVANCED PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS ELECTRICS DIVISION Canada England Buckinghamshire HP10 9UT COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS FLIGHTLINE SYSTEMS Tel: 1 902 466 7491 Tel: 44 0 1772 325200 England EMS MARITIME SYSTEMS Information Air & Land Fax: 1 902 463 6098 Fax: 44 0 1772 325201 Tel: 44 0 1628 530000 FASL MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC & Sea Systems Systems Fax: 44 0 1628 524557 MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS Sonar & Communication Systems Electrics Division PMES NOISE & VIBRATION SYSTEMS 419 Bridport Road Kingsditch Lane EMS SIGNATURE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS Greenford Cheltenham 95 Horseblock Road TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS Middlesex UB6 8UA Gloucestershire GL51 9PG PO Box 640 UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC England England Yaphank Tel: 44 0 20 8813 4567 Tel: 44 0 1242 221166 New York 11980 Fax: 44 0 20 8813 4568 Fax: 44 0 1242 221167 USA sales 82.9m sales 177.5m Tel: 1 631 345 6200 Tactical Communication Systems Measurement Systems Inc. profit 11.0m profit 22.5m Fax: 1 631 345 6216 600 Dr Frederik Philips Boulevard 777 Commerce Drive Ville Saint-Laurent Fairfield FASL Quebec H4M2S9 Connecticut 06432 The Oaks FLIGHTLINE SYSTEMS CONTROLS DIVISION Canada USA Crewe Road MARITIME SYSTEMS DATEL DEFENCE Tel: 1 514 855 6363 Tel: 1 203 336 4590 Wythenshawe SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS ELECTRICS DIVISION Fax: 1 514 855 6353 Fax: 1 203 336 5945 Manchester M23 9SS TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC England UnderSea Sensor Systems Inc.
Precision Air Systems UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS Tactical & Aircraft & Tel: 44 0 161 946 3600 4578 East Park 30 Drive Anson Business Park Sonar Systems Vehicle Systems Fax: 44 0 161 946 3601 Columbia City Cheltenham Road East sales 101.1m sales 76.4m Indiana 46725-8869 Gloucester GL2 9QN Manufacturing & Card Systems profit 10.1m profit 12.4m USA England Waverley House Information & Tel: 1 260 248 3500 Tel: 44 0 1452 714382 Hampshire Road Power Systems Fax: 1 260 248 3510 Fax: 44 0 1452 715252 Granby Estate Weymouth Dorset DT4 9XD England Tel: 44 0 1305 784738 Fax: 44 0 1305 777904 ADVANCED PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS PMES COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS Armitage Road EMS Rugeley FASL Staffordshire WS15 1DR MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS England PMES Tel: 44 0 1889 503300 Fax: 44 0 1889 572929 sales 82.9m profit 11.0m 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Registered Office: Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 417 Bridport Road Greenford Middlesex UB6 8UA England Tel: 44 0 20 8813 4321 Fax: 44 0 20 8813 4322 www.
com Design and production: HaT Associates 44 0 1242 253112 Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2002 The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Principal activity Ultra Electronics is a group of businesses engaged in the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems for the international defence and aerospace markets.
Results and dividends The review of operations is contained on pages 4 to 17.
Group results and dividends are as follows: 2002 000 Balance on profit and loss account, beginning of year as restated see note 20 14,588 Profit for the financial year 17,946 Dividends: Interim paid of 3.7p per share 2,439 Final proposed of 7.5p per share 4,946 Amounts gifted to the Employee Share Ownership Trust see note 19 135 Foreign exchange differences 474 Balance on profit and loss account, end of year 25,488 The final 2002 dividend is proposed to be paid on 6 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at 11 April 2003.
The interim dividend was paid on 27 September 2002, making a total of 11.2p 2001: 10.4p per share for the year.
Future developments A review of the activities and future developments of the Group is contained in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 17.
Research and development The Directors are committed to maintaining a significant level of research and development expenditure in order to expand the Groups range of proprietary products.
During the year a total of 58.6 million 2001: 50.1 million was spent on engineering development of which 47.9 million 2001: 40.1 million was funded by customers and 10.7 million 2001: 10.0 million by the Group.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served in the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are listed on page 33.
Substantial shareholdings At 21 February 2003, the Company had been notified in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985 that the following were registered as having an interest in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Percentage of ordinary share Number of 5p capital % ordinary shares Zurich Financial Services Group 4.80 3,157,414 The Aegon UK plc Group of Companies 3.98 2,617,826 Fidelity International Limited 3.87 2,536,171 Legal and General 3.63 2,397,439 Sun Life Assurance 3.13 2,064,069 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 3.03 1,987,582 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23 Directors report continued Charitable and political contributions The Group contributed 14,000 2001: 14,000 to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in either year.
Health, safety and the environment Ultras Board recognises that it is important, both for its employees and the communities in which it operates, that Ultra maintains high standards of health and safety and takes effective measures to ensure that its activities do not damage the environment.
The Board continues to operate a policy of bi-annual external audits of each UK site in respect of health, safety and environmental matters.
These audits are next scheduled to take place during 2003.
A similar process has recently been established for the Groups North American sites and the first of such audits commenced in early 2003.
In particular Ultra recognises the responsibility it has towards the environment.
The Group Environmental Policy addresses compliance with environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, waste disposal and noise, the economical use of materials and the establishment of environmental performance standards.
All Ultra businesses commenced implementation of this policy during 2002, a process that will continue into 2003. Business ethics and employment practices Ultras Board of Directors requires that its employees comply with the laws and standards of conduct of the countries in which it does business.
The Directors and employees are all required to avoid personal conflicts of interest regarding company business.
In complying with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 in the United Kingdom, the Group has established a procedure enabling employees to bring matters to the attention of an appropriate manager outside of their own business in the event that they do not feel able to approach their local line management.
It is the policy of the Board to be an equal opportunities employer and to oppose all forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, religion or political belief.
Applicants and employees are treated equally and fairly in respect of recruitment, remuneration, training, promotion and career development.
Employee consultation The Board places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and keeps them informed on matters affecting them as employees, and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group, through formal and informal meetings and a Group magazine.
An employee survey, YOURviews, provides local management teams with feedback and an opportunity to benchmark across the Group.
Supplier payment policy Operating divisions are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2002 were 47 days 2001: 53 days, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year-end.
24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Directors report continued Annual general meeting Explanation of special business resolutions is given below: Resolution 7 Arthur Andersen resigned as auditors of the Group during 2002 and the Board appointed Deloitte & Touche to replace them following a formal tender process.
Resolution 7 confirms Deloitte & Touche as Ultras auditors for the year to come.
Resolution 8 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,100,666 33% of the allotted and fully paid up share capital of the Company.
Resolution 9 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares for cash, without first having offered to allot such shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, in respect of 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
Resolutions 8 and 9 comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines and renew similar authorities given previously.
The authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 15 months after the date of passing these resolutions.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authorities sought by these resolutions except for employee share option schemes.
Resolution 10 This resolution authorises the Directors to purchase up to a total of 3,301,997 of the Companys shares representing 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This authority expires on the earlier of 12 months from the date of passing this resolution or the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company.
The Directors will use the share purchase authority with discretion.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares of the Company the Directors would take account of the Companys business and any impact on earnings per share and net tangible assets per share.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authority sought by this resolution.
By order of the Board, D. Jeffcoat Company Secretary 24 February 2003 Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA Registered Number: 2830397 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25
