Chief Executives Review The UK gambling industry is going through a period of significant change.
Fiscal and regulatory reforms are combining with technological advancements to create a wealth of opportunities for a strong and trusted brand such as William Hill to develop further its business.
and self service fixed odds betting terminals Trading performance Interactive FOBTs was up 7%.
Whilst improved The major change to the fiscal environment in Interactive businesses include our online horseracing results will have impacted the 2002 was the full year effect of the new gross sportsbook and casino and fledgling mobile performance, these figures suggest that the profit tax GPT regime introduced in October WAP and interactive TV businesses.
full benefit of the new tax regime is still 2001, which directly taxes bookmakers gross working through as customers adjust their These businesses showed significant growth profit rather than customers stakes, and which betting behaviour.
with profit up 123% to 20.5m over the significantly reduces the amount of tax paid by corresponding period.
The channels principal bookmakers on business conducted in the UK.
Our strategy of giving the customer increased market has always been the UK although it has betting opportunities through opening more The results for the period also benefited managed to attract an international customer shops on Sundays, and offering new sports, from the inclusion of the football World Cup base.
Developing the overseas business is betting events and innovative bet types that stimulated betting activity and account proving more difficult due to legislation in facilitates recycling.
Whilst there has been a recruitment.
The event generated 13m certain jurisdictions prohibiting local citizens staff cost associated with taking an increased of gross win across all three channels from betting with an offshore bookmaker or volume of bets and extending opening although we estimate roughly two-thirds discouraging local banks from processing hours, there is clear evidence that product of this amount represented substitution card transactions.
We are, therefore, continuing diversification is helping to drive growth.
of betting on other sports.
to focus principally on the UK market in which we believe further growth is possible as well as Virtual racing shown as part of the SIS targeting selected European markets.
programme and FOBTs have been particularly Licensed betting offices LBOs successful innovations with the roll out of The new gross profit tax regime has been In January 2003, we successfully launched an terminals starting in mid 2002 and progressing particularly beneficial for our retail channel, on-line poker product, and later this year we rapidly so that by the year end we operated which had been disadvantaged against remote will introduce new functionality to allow 1,745 terminals in the estate.
In the fourth channels due to the relative size of the customers to move funds easily between the quarter of 2002, numbers betting comprising deduction from customers spend.
traditional numbers products, virtual racing and From the day of the introduction of the new FOBTs accounted for a significantly higher Cost of content tax there has been clear evidence of customers proportion of the Groups gross win compared recycling the money saved on deductions into to the corresponding period in 2001.
The new commercial agreement with the more and bigger bets.
Turnover on fixed odds British Horseracing Board became effective on These changes have contributed towards betting excluding AWPs in the retail channel 1 May 2002 and represents an important step a 20% increase in profitability for the was up 44% and gross win was up 1%.
in providing both the bookmaking and horse retail channel.
racing industries with certainty regarding the Tracking the benefit of tax free betting through use and price of data.
We have also secured the year has been difficult because of the Telephone the necessary rights to screen pictures from distorting effect of the World Cup in the second individual race tracks for periods up until the Telephone gross win grew by 6% to 50.9m quarter, and a run of unfavourable results in end of 2004. and profit increased by 12% to 17.3m showing the third quarter.
In the fourth quarter, we were the resilience of the medium in the face of stiff able to compare like for like trading with the In August 2002, the bookmaking industry competition from other remote channels and corresponding period in 2001, when the new reached agreement with the Football League on after recognising that the telephone channel tax was also in operation, and total gross win the acceptance of football bets.
The agreement no longer enjoys a pricing advantage over the in the shops from traditional products, AWPs in respect of LBOs runs until the end of the retail channel following its repatriation.
require layers bookmakers on betting is in the process of seeking a declaration from exchanges to pay levy on the same basis as the High Court to establish whether or not At the time of writing, the bookmaking industry, traditional bookmakers.
We are also hopeful FOBTs are gaming machines and are therefore via Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound Services that Customs and Excise, as part of their review unlawful in betting shops under current BAGS, is seeking to extend the terms of its of the gross profit tax regime, will follow the legislation.
The bookmaking industry has agreement to purchase pictures from certain levy decision and impose the tax on layers on received legal advice that supports its view that greyhound tracks.
The current contract runs the exchanges.
these terminals offer fixed odds bets but until the end of 2003 and BAGS is seeking a recognises that the issue can only be further two year extension.
To date, 7 of the determined definitively in a court of law and Business development 16 BAGS tracks have signed.
Separately, the therefore is co-operating with the Gaming greyhound industry is seeking a significant During the period, the Group acquired Board.
The matter is not expected to be heard increase in the total amount derived from H&K Commissions Bookmakers PLC, an by the High Court until the early summer.
The independent chain of 35 shops, which improves basis for this claim is disputed by bookmakers our representation in North East London and Current trading and as a result the industry is taking steps to Essex.
In addition, the Group acquired mitigate the effect of this action.
Sunderland greyhound stadium during the The good performance in the fourth quarter of period, and Brough Park greyhound stadium 2002 has continued into the current financial after the period end, to help secure at year with gross win up 20% in the 9 weeks Competition issues reasonable cost the supply of betting ended 4 March, 2003 compared to the The Group continues to compete effectively opportunities on greyhound racing.
Factors such as against other operators of high street outlets, All three acquired businesses are profitable, favourable sporting results, the introduction of comprising national chains as well as smaller established operations.
FOBTs into the retail estate, and the growing independents, other providers of telephone popularity of football and numbers betting betting services, and also domestic and have all played their part in consolidating the Regulatory development overseas operators of online sportsbook and growth in total customer spend.
DCMS is currently engaged in developing legislation that reflects the recommendations The coming financial year will be no less In addition, the bookmaking industry is contained in the Budd report published in July demanding than the year just ended but responding to the competitive threat 2001 that will result in a deregulation of the Group is well positioned to develop its represented by betting exchanges by lobbying gambling markets in the UK.
The major business and take advantage of the very real the Department of Culture, Media and Sport opportunity for our industry will be the opportunities that exist in its core market and DCMS to examine the legality of persons increased number of gaming machines in shops the broader gambling sector.
laying bets on this platform, by trying to ensure and introduction of jackpot machines offering a level playing field with the off course industry 500 maximum prizes.
We are lobbying as regards the payment of levy and gross profit DCMS regarding the content of the proposed tax, and by encouraging the National Joint Pitch legislation and do not expect it to be enacted Council NJPC to enforce its rules so as to stop by Parliament until the second half of 2004 at on course bookmakers betting into the the earliest.
