4 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives review Driving the business The group has performed strongly in its markets, despite challenging business conditions.
This years results confirm that we have been pursuing the right strategy to deliver improving returns for our shareholders.
I see no reason to change that strategy and will continue to build upon the solid foundation which Wolseley has rmly established.
5 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 forward It is always gratifying as Chief Executive to The strategic direction of the Wolseley group is key to its be able to report excellent results for the group, future success.
When I took up my post as Group Chief especially in the economic environment Executive in May 2001, I said that we would: which followed the tragic events of September 11, 2001.
Grow through acquisition However, before I outline the key points of our strategy, I want to take this opportunity and organic expansion to pay tribute to Richard Ireland, our Chairman, who retires at the AGM this year, Wolseley remains committed and focussed on distribution and continues to set itself the after a long career with the group.
Richard target of annual double digit growth in sales and earnings.
Growth will come through joined the company in 1955 and over his a combination of both acquisitions and organic expansion.
47 years with Wolseley, he has risen through the ranks, joining the board in 1975 as Group Finance Director, serving for 20 years Develop a European strategy before retiring in 1994, when he became Europe is becoming one market.
By managing the European Distribution division as a non-executive director.
In 1996, he became a more cohesive European unit, Wolseley should achieve significant benefits and synergies non-executive Chairman.
Following John and be better able to exploit market opportunities.
Youngs early retirement in June 2000, the board were grateful when Richard stepped into an executive Chairman role for almost Leverage our international position a year, until I took up my post in May 2001.
The business world is becoming increasingly global.
Wolseley has a unique international It is impossible to quantify the enormous position and a great opportunity to take advantage of this globalisation.
The group intends contribution that he has made to the to leverage its international market presence to ensure it can continue to enhance group, guiding the business towards the business.
international expansion and presiding over the implementation and enforcement of Wolseleys conservative accounting legacy.
Enhance business diversity More recently he helped bring focus to Wolseley with the decision to divest of its Wolseley has dened itself as a distributor of construction materials with a current market focus manufacturing businesses.
He hands over on North America and Europe.
The diversity comes from a broad range of product, type of the group in excellent shape with rm plans customer, geography, value added opportunities for growth and increased investor returns.
in place to continue to deliver the results that shareholders expect.
I would personally like to thank him for his help and support over and develop our people the last year, and on behalf of the board, Wolseley recognises that the continued success of the group depends on its people, their I wish him well in his retirement.
development and commitment to the company.
This will require a strategic emphasis on a continual programme of recruitment, training and development of top quality people at all levels.
Charles Banks Group Chief Executive 6 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives review continued Growth through acquisition and organic expansion Wolseleys target remains double digit growth of acquisition spend compared to the a high investment in the waterworks and in sales and earnings.
This is a substantial average annual target of 200 million a year underground drainage sector.
Wolseleys and challenging target, but one that creates reflected the uncertainties in the market Canadian business completed three opportunities for our employees and our in the immediate aftermath of the events acquisitions for 4 million, primarily investors.
It is not unrealistic when you look of September 11.
The group continues to expand its presence in the HVAC and at the structure of our group and our to seek acquisitions to expand all areas engineered pipe markets.
We are in a very fragmented of its activities.
industry and we look at our acquisitions as The US Building Materials Division a way of expanding our product offering In Europe, the 60.3 million of acquisitions completed two acquisitions in Washington and our geographic presence to provide the include the groups first entry into plumbing State and Northern Virginia for 13.7 platform for future organic expansion.
The and heating distribution in The Netherlands, million as part of its continued strategy to group broadly aims to spend 200 million through the 36 million acquisition of Wasco expand its geographic coverage into markets on acquisitions each year, principally boltGroup in July 2002, the leading heating which offer good growth prospects.
ons to existing businesses, but never ruling equipment and spares distributor in that out the opportunity for larger transactions country.
This acquisition will be used as Branch numbers increased by 193 7.0% which could take us into new markets or a platform for expansion of the sanitaryware to a total of 2,939 at 31 July 2002.
A net 104 signicantly expand our market share in business and the opening of new collect new branches were opened during the year.
The level of acquisition centres to service smaller, professional In the UK, 86 were added bringing the total spend each year will vary in amount and contractors.
Wascos spares business will to 1,219.
In mainland Europe, 52 new by division as opportunities arise.
The also be developed, utilising its recently branches were added bringing the total there Operating and financial review on page 24 established 110,000 square feet spare parts to 580.
There were a net 29 closures in the gives more details of acquisitions.
In the UK, Wolseley USA, primarily due to a disposal of certain expanded its plastic pipes distribution loss making HVAC locations and closure The group sets rigorous acquisition criteria, business by acquiring 26 outlets from of duplicated Westburne US locations.
which, when met for a proposed acquisition, Glynwed Pipe Systems for a consideration The number of locations in North America, are followed by a period of intensive due of 23 million.
including Canada, now totals 1,140. diligence.
There is no ideal balance to the groups geographic presence and neither the Most of the 86.3 million acquisition activity US nor the European market is favoured.
in North American Plumbing and Heating Acquisitions arise as a combination of careful Distribution related to the expansion of targeting and opportunism.
More investment Fergusons presence in the fast growing will be allocated in those geographic and waterworks market.
Clayton, the fourth product areas, where the group needs to largest distributor of waterworks, wastewater strengthen its presence in order to be and storm drainage material in the USA, was a major player in a market.
acquired in April for 75 million.
Clayton operates from 31 branches in six states During the year, 14 acquisitions were Florida, Louisiana, Texas, Arkansas, Georgia completed for an aggregate consideration, and Mississippi and one in each of Barbados including debt, of 160.3 million 2001: and Trinidad.
The business has a particularly 399.6 million.
The slightly lower level strong market position in Florida which has 7 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 8 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives review continued 9 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Developing a European strategy The European market is changing to Last year we indicated that developing a Opportunities exist to leverage our become a single market with fewer obstacles new European strategy and an appropriate investment in the operational and to commerce and increased opportunities for structure was an important part of Wolseleys administrative side of the business.
Wolseley recognises that its European strategy going forward.
This is work in progress has been made in the development division has an opportunity to adapt its progress which we will continue to report on of logistics and supply chain management structure to reflect these changes.
Our European businesses have programmes in some of our markets and we managing the European Distribution division outstanding management and personnel.
believe this can be helpful towards profitable as a more cohesive European unit, Wolseley They are doing an excellent job for Wolseley expansion in both existing and new markets.
should achieve significant benefits and and our customers.
However, there are a We are also very excited about the potential synergies and be better able to explore market number of cultural issues that need to be operational benefits that can be derived opportunities.
We are already located in ten understood and respected in the process of from a more cohesive and integrated European countries and supply a wide variety developing a more comprehensive integrated approach to the application of technology, of products and services to our customers.
We want to enhance the human resource development and the This provides us with a foundation to create performance of these companies and their financial systems of our European operations.
a European business with a more integrated people, while at the same time nding ways approach to the market.
to broaden our presence and take advantage The group takes pride in its strong position of the changing European market.
in the European markets in which it operates.
These companies form the basis of an We are currently working on plans to exploit expanded organisation that can focus on the the successful customer approaches and changing European market and provide programmes that we have in our markets continued growth for Wolseley.
in all the countries in which we operate.
This offers us exciting opportunities for growth in existing markets, as well as improving the prospects for identifying acquisitions in new markets and countries.
10 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives review continued Leveraging our international position Wolseley has pursued an international dealing with the same supplier in a number From a financial perspective, we are already expansion strategy since 1982 when it of different countries.
We believe our international in our approach to investors.
acquired Ferguson Enterprises in the USA.
purchasing power and relationship with We have been listed on the London Stock Since that time we have expanded from our these suppliers offers exciting market Exchange for decades and we are in our small origins in the UK into 11 additional opportunities.
As more and more products second year with an ADR listing on the New countries.
This expansion strategy has are manufactured in lower cost areas, there York Stock Exchange.
Our investor base is propelled the groups growth in sales and are increasing opportunities to leverage now more diverse and we recognise access to profitability and we see it as a key buying power to acquire them.
capital markets on both sides of the Atlantic opportunity for the future.
as an opportunity and a strength.
We have In the area of technology, vendors are also also expanded our banking relationships on Today, even more so than in 1982, the consolidating and the technology to manage both sides of the Atlantic, in order to ensure business world is becoming increasingly processes is becoming global.
This is a good our expansion plans are supported by globalised.
We think this trend will opportunity to eliminate duplication, to appropriate financial plans.
continue and we intend to take advantage minimise cost and improve performance of these changes.
It provides a platform to We believe our international position share information and creativity among provides an opportunity to create growth Currently we operate in 12 countries with Wolseleys companies.
in returns for our investors, exciting outstanding companies in their local markets, opportunities for our employees and acting independently at the operating level Customers are also becoming more enhanced ways of servicing our customers.
subject to financial and strategic direction international.
While our average installer is from the corporate centre.
We deal with not crossing international boundaries, many our customers and our local markets in of our large industrial accounts, as well as accordance with their local customs.
This many of the large home builders and approach is a very important part of the contractors, are crossing borders and dealing success of Wolseley and one which will internationally.
No one is in a better continue to be applied and enhanced.
position to serve these customers than Wolseley, and this offers another growth At the same time, the globalisation of opportunity to leverage the groups position.
markets and products gives us some unique opportunities to leverage our position, structure and size.
The supplier base is consolidating and increasingly we are 11 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 12 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 13 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives review continued Enhance business diversity Wolseley is a very diverse business and we This allows Wolseley to take advantage exceptional on time delivery.
Our buying want to build and expand that as part of of strong markets, and to minimise the power can be enhanced by the volumes of our strategy.
Wolseleys strategy is to have a impact on the group when a local market similar product across our business, such as diversified approach to the marketplace that softens.
It also helps towards providing a PVC, copper and steel pipe.
provides for growth, as well as ensuring it is better service to our customers who do insulated from the cyclicality of the sector.
Lastly, the opportunity to provide value This diversity is reflected in several ways: added services to our customers not only diversity of geography, lines of business Wolseley is well positioned to expand market improves margins, but increases our and products and services.
By having a share as well as to take advantage of changing relationships with our customers.
Whether broad offering, Wolseleys performance business cycles.
Our ability to capitalise on it involves fabricating steel pipe, assembling has been resilient in a volatile and cyclical the residential, commercial, repair, valve actuators, assembling roof trusses or market sector.
maintenance, improvement and industrial creating custom millwork, these capabilities sectors enables the businesses to are critical in differentiating us in the market.
Wolseley will continue to look for geographic accommodate changes in demand.
In areas that offer growth opportunities and addition, Wolseley is able to leverage Diversity is just one part of the foundation foundations for further solid investments.
capabilities and investments across a broad that provides substantial growth Being located in multiple countries on two business offering.
opportunities and stability of earnings for continents provides balance from fluctuations Wolseley and is shown on an annual basis in local market economies.
Our competitive advantage is the ability to by our historical results.
We intend to offer a broad bundle of products.
It allows enhance this diversity by taking advantage the customer to have all product of geographic expansion opportunities and requirements met in one location and at one new products and services, as well as new time, thereby lowering the cost of doing lines of business.
By having this wide product offering, Wolseley is able to increase service levels, improve ll rates and provide 14 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives review continued Developing our people Distribution is a people business.
The quality A part of our strategy will be to ensure that As Wolseley grows, top quality people of our people is a major differentiator from appropriate training is conducted within are needed to deal with customers, to our competitors in the marketplace.
the individual companies and branches, manage processes and to differentiate us so that people are prepared to perform at in the marketplace.
Wolseley has 38,000 employees worldwide the highest level and also prepared to take on and as we continue to grow and expand career growth and additional responsibility Our ability to perform as a leading this number will increase.
These people are over time.
We will continue to use the newly organisation is dependent upon our human our major asset and the quality of our implemented management development resources capability and the implementation recruitment, the effectiveness of our staff programme at the Darden School of Business of our strategy.
With this in mind, the retention and their development will play and we will complement this and expand it development of our people is of paramount a major role in the success of Wolseley with an additional management development importance and a critical part of the in the future.
programme in Europe, working with a groups strategy.
Wolseley A key part of an effective retention and is an international organisation and we will recruitment programme is providing visible develop exchange programmes designed to opportunity within the organisation.
With ensure that many of our best people the growth we have planned, we feel there experience the international aspects of is tremendous opportunity for the people that business.
This is an opportunity to expose make up Wolseley.
Our ability to capitalise our people to challenges, opportunities, on those opportunities depends on best practice and innovative ways of doing developing effective skills to meet the business, so that they can learn and benefit challenges ahead.
from them and apply them in their future roles and responsibilities.
15 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Ferguson Two year-old Emma North, together with her father Leigh North and eleven other Ferguson Enterprises volunteers, helped clean up the beach in south eastern Virginia, in the USA.
The project called Clean the Bay Day successfully removed 175,455 pounds of rubbish within a 205- mile area in Virginia.
16 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Our people in the community Distribution is a people business.
One of the things that differentiates Wolseley from its competitors is the quality of its people.
Not only are they an integral part of the success of the group, but they are also committed to helping others achieve their goals.
Many give time to community events and a range of charities.
They continually demonstrate that they are prepared to go beyond the call of duty to support the business and the people in the community.
Brossette The Brossette BTI branch in The second priority was to reconstruct Toulouse, France, was completely the branch as quickly as possible in order destroyed last year in the chemical plant to keep the customers supplied.
Our explosion that killed 30 people and people showed an amazing spirit of injured 2,442 others.
The first priority solidarity and determination.
Just two for our staff was to ensure the welfare weeks after the blast, temporary offices of all those wounded in the blast, which were set up, orders made to suppliers and included a number of Brossette staff.
the branch started business again.
Wolseley Centers Plumb Center staff and customers raised 17,000 to help buy a 15 seater Sunshine Coach minibus for disabled children in the north of England.
It is the fifth Sunshine Coach Plumb Center has given in co-operation with the Variety Club golf society of stars from the entertainment world.
17 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Stock Building Supply The staff at Anderson Lumber, part of Stock Building Supply, welcomed the world as Salt Lake City, in the US state of Utah, hosted the 2002 Olympic and Paralympic Winter games.
For 17 days in February and ten days in March, more than ten Anderson Lumber staff joined over 26,000 volunteers needed to host the games.
The volunteers helped with many tasks during the event including driving athletes, officials and Olympic families to and from sporting events, answering spectators questions, removing snow from the course and solving any problems on the day.
Many volunteers had to be up at 4.00am, work all day and then turn around and do it all over again the next day.
Wolseley Centers Builder and Hire Centers staff celebrated the opening of a new branch in Plymouth by donating money to Plymouth Argyles Football in the Community scheme, to help fund a six-week coaching programme.
This is just one of the many examples of Wolseley Centers staff giving money to the local community.
Wolseley Centers 16 Plumb Center staff and customers raised 40,000 for the NCH National Childrens Home.
They successfully completed a trek along sections of the Great Wall of China and the surrounding mountains.
The team walked over a 100 miles in high altitudes and soaring temperatures.
The trip was very demanding physically but with lots of prefitness training and preparation, the team completed the challenge.
Ferguson Connie Luhrs, showroom consultant in Fergusons Syracuse branch, in the USA, received a request for some sunglasses from her son Christopher Miller, who is in the military in Afghanistan.
She relayed the message to her manager and he suggested sending some safety sunglasses out to the soldiers in Afghanistan.
The glasses worked exceptionally well at keeping the sand out of their eyes, so the Syracuse branch sent additional glasses out to help other soldiers on duty in the region.
