CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Vosper Thornycroft has changed considerably in the last thirteen years since I became chief executive.
The order book then was 172m and today it stands at over eight times that size, at over 1.5 billion.
Turnover has grown from 96m to 479m and the mix of the business in 2002 is very different from what it was then.
In 1989 nearly all of our sales were in shipbuilding.
Today nearly two thirds of our sales come from support services.
The developing business of a decade ago is very much the core business of today.
04 Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 6 acquisitions, strengthening our support services business, both in the civil and military sectors 51% increase in turnover in support services business Agreement signed on the Type 45 project and clearing the way for investment in new shipbuilding facilities in Portsmouth Contract awards since year-end of 500m.
This change has also meant the flow of orders has altered for the better.
We will look actively to transfer the skills we have developed in UK military Shipbuilding work is a bit like the proverbial bus.
You can wait a long time markets to other markets, both in the civil sector and overseas.
The two for work to come along, but when it comes there is a lot of it.
The peaks largest acquisitions we have made this year, Merlin and Griffin, are and troughs of the shipbuilding cycle can often be high and deep.
Our statements of this intent.
Merlin currently operates predominantly in the strategy over the last ten years has been to tackle the stop-go, feast and civil sector in ten countries world-wide.
Griffin gives us access to the famine cycle.
Ten years ago our order book was made up of just three potentially large US military outsourcing market.
I am happy to report that main contracts with an average duration of three years.
Today the groups these businesses are being successfully integrated into the group.
Merlin order book is made up of forty different contracts lasting on average five has won its first contract under VTs ownership and Griffin has just been years.
This means that overall we have greater visibility of our forward selected as preferred bidder for a project that would increase its annual revenues.
The changes at VT have of course been stimulated by the changes in the I am delighted to be handing over the chief executives baton into the very marketplace.
Ten years ago we would have described Vosper Thornycroft capable hands of Paul Lester.
He will bring to the job a good existing as a shipbuilder.
Today we describe our core business as defence and knowledge of the group and also the fresh ideas gleaned from his government contracting.
experiences gained in the course of a highly successful business career.
I am very pleased that John Wakeham has agreed to remain on the board Over the last few years there has been major restructuring in the defence for a further year as deputy chairman.
He has given great service to VT industry, in response to a general drive to make more efficient use of limited and I will find it invaluable to continue to have his advice as I assume my defence budgets.
This has inevitably had an impact on the competitive new role of chairman.
Competition remains the procurement method of choice but competitive procurement is being applied more pragmatically Vosper Thornycroft is in good shape and good hands.
It is well-placed to than before.
Increasingly the MoD is looking to forge longer-term partnerships continue on the strong growth trends of the last decade.
with a smaller number of well-resourced prime contractors with good track records of delivery.
There is also greater emphasis on the costs not just of acquiring a piece of equipment but also on the costs of maintaining and supporting it throughout its life.
The MoD is looking for its contractors to provide not just a product, but also a service.
Hand-in-hand with this go new and innovative ways for the private sector under PFI and PPPs to finance the provision of products and services.
In defence the areas of activity being outsourced to the private sector are increasing.
Fleet Support Limiteds contract to manage the Portsmouth Martin Jay Chief Executive Fleet Maintenance and Repair Organisation has not just been extended in time, it has also been extended in scope.
The same is true in other areas of government business such as education and training.
Contract lengths are increasing and smaller individual projects are being consolidated into larger bids.
VT is well-placed to exploit the commercial opportunities presented by these changes.
The MoD has embarked on one of the largest UK warshipbuilding programmes for many years.
VT is set to play a significant part in helping to deliver that programme.
The revised procurement strategy for the Type 45, in which work is being shared between VT and BAE Systems Marine, demonstrates we are a capable alternative supplier to the yards of BAE Systems for frontline warships.
This provides the company with a strong base from which to maintain its record as the UKs most successful exporter of warships.
In support services we have established a track-record of successfully managing sensitive defence establishments for all three of the armed services.
This has been recognised by the renewal of many of our existing contracts.
Going forward we will exploit new business opportunities on a case by case basis.
In developing markets such as training and logistics support we may bid as a prime contractor on our own or may partner with those companies where we can offer the strongest set of complementary skills.
This may mean that we will be partnering with companies on some projects, but competing against them on others.
