independent consultants, has assessed risk exposures across the business, leading to enhanced risk management and internal audit procedures.
Appropriate capacity has been added at the corporate centre, which still employs only 26 people including support staff, in order to manage the expanded activities of finance, treasury, risk management and internal audit, coordination of Group HSE, information technology, and legal and corporate affairs.
Health, Safety, Environment HSE and Corporate Social Involvement CSI The successful management of the Groups HSE and social involvement provides an ever present challenge for our operations.
We remain committed to continuous improvement in this critical area of our business.
Our achievable goal must be to operate our plants and mines, without losing the life of a single employee or contractor.
That was not the case in 2002, and I regret deeply that four employees and two contractors were fatally injured last year.
The creation of a new Group, the establishment of new HSE and CSI policies, the implementation of common targets and performance indicators, the new opportunities to share best practice all add impetus to the key objective of improving our HSE performance still further in 2003.
A new Global HSE Coordinator has been appointed to manage the Groups standards, practice and performance, and its engagement with stakeholders, in the areas of HSE and sustainable development.
A review providing information on the Groups 2002 HSE management and performance, and its labour relations and CSI, is available on Xstratas website and a further stand-alone document will be prepared in 2003.
Statement of Business Principles A significant development within the Group has been the adoption of the Xstrata Statement of Business Principles.
The principles provide an ethical framework for all Xstratas businesses around the world and set out for Xstrata personnel their commitment to each other, and to Xstratas stakeholders, about how they work.
They provide a clear reference point for the corporate culture we wish to develop and sustain within Xstrata: where an unremitting focus on value means an uncompromising commitment to ethical and responsible behaviour.
The challenge now is to ensure that these aspirations are reected in daily actions, attitudes and decisions across the Group, and I am confident that this process is underway.
Xstrata plc 3 chairmans statement Committees of the Board The Board has constituted three committees, each of which has formal terms of reference: The Xstrata Plc Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
In addition, each Commodity Business has a separate audit committee, each of which has an independent chairman.
The Board has developed and put in place new Group policies and procedures covering HSE, Treasury, Social Involvement and general authority limits.
Dividend The Listing Particulars set out the Boards intention to declare a dividend at the end of 2002, based on 2 3 of a notional full dividend for the year.
Accordingly, the directors have declared Xstratas first dividend of US$0.20 per share.
This will be presented to shareholders for their approval at the AGM on 8 May 2003, and paid on 23 May 2003.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review.
The Board and Management Dr Reto Domeniconi resigned as non executive director in June 2002.
I wish to thank him again for the contribution he made over many years to the former Xstrata AG and, more recently, to the establishment of Xstrata plc.
His position on the Board was offered to Mr Ian Strachan.
Mr Strachans wealth of expertise and experience, a great deal of which is specic to natural resources, has already made a significant contribution to the Group and we look forward working with him.
The pace of developments within Xstrata, the experience and energy of its management, and the quality and depth of its strategic thinking demand a great deal of directors and senior executives alike.
I wish to thank my fellow directors for the time and effort that they put in to their role on the Board.
The achievements of the past year and the strong position of the Company are a tribute to the dedication and hard work of the men and women at Xstrata, and I express the gratitude of the Board to Mick Davis and to all the staff of the Group, for the exceptional progress that has been made.
Conclusion Xstrata plc has emerged from its first year of life as a substantial company, with a diversied portfolio of high-quality, cash generative businesses, a new shareholder base, enhanced access to the debt markets and with the scale, management capacity and financial exibility that are critical for success in the metals and mining industry.
A robust platform for growing the Company, both from internally generated projects and acquisitions, is therefore in place.
However, the overriding objective of the Board is the creation of further value for Xstratas shareholders.
Complex and difficult market conditions currently prevail and we shall pursue our aim by leveraging the platform and impetus that exist within Xstrata with vigour and circumspection.
Willy Strothotte Chairman 4 Xstrata plc chief executives review It is a little more than a year, 21 February 2002, since we announced the transactions that launched the dramatic transformation of Xstrata, and we have made significant progress in the short period since then.
The strategic rationale for the creation of Xstrata plc was set out in detail in my interim report.
In this report I wish to focus on four main areas: a review of Xstratas progress since the IPO: an overview of this years results: opportunities for growth: and the issue of mineral and mining rights in South Africa.
Progress Against Our Strategic Objectives The progress we have made in the nine months from the IPO to the end of the financial year has affirmed the investment thesis we set out for prospective shareholders, and the fundamental quality and strength of our assets: We have successfully and speedily integrated the Duiker and Enex coal businesses: implementing a new business model, augmenting new management capacity where necessary and establishing new structures, systems and procedures, without any disruption to the smooth operation of our businesses.
We have established Xstrata plc as a nimble new player in the London mining arena, with a new culture and energy, and a focused management team.
We have developed a clear mission for the new Group, and taken the time to define, for ourselves and our stakeholders, the principles that will guide how we work.
We have vigorously protected our margins, in the face of harsh and complex market conditions, and secured significant efficiencies and productivity gains in each of our major businesses.
We have maintained a focused programme of internal capital investment, expending over US$103 million in 2002 to ensure the on-going strength of our operations.
At the same time, we have accelerated the pursuit and development of new projects within our existing portfolio, that we expect will deliver growth and or enhanced returns in the future, spending over US$58 million on expansionary capex in 2002.
Xstrata plc 5 chief executives review As set out in more detail below, we have made real progress in respect of the acquisition-led portion of our growth strategy, in terms of both incremental and company-transforming opportunities.
We have completed three bolt-on transactions to our current businesses, whose positive impact will ow into 2003s numbers: the US$72 million acquisitions of the Narama and Ravensworth coal assets in 2002, the Nordenham zinc smelter for US$100 million at the end of 2002 and an increased stake in the Oakbridge coal group for US$58 million at the start of 2003.
We have developed and put in place an equity capital management programme, which enables up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital to be purchased, with all the benets of a share repurchase, while maintaining the Groups financial repower for possible acquisitions.
We successfully rationalised the Groups financial structure to provide optimum access to cash ows and to maximise the benefit of our Swiss tax residency.
The latter was a strong contributor to the resilience of our attributable profit in 2002.
We have also taken the opportunity presented by the success of the IPO to restructure the Groups debt facilities and have continued to pay down our debt from robust cash ows.
We have successfully engaged with the South African government, and with a wide range of potential Black Empowerment Groups, to develop meaningful industry participation by those who were historically disadvantaged and to secure the value and integrity of our assets in that country.
We have moved quickly to assess the on-going viability of those operations that have under-performed and, in the case of Windimurra and the magnesium recycling plant, we are taking the hard decisions required to optimise the quality of the portfolio and to end leakage of cash in the future.
We have improved our performance in the areas of health, safety and the environment and have affirmed our strong commitment to this critical area, by setting higher targets for the year ahead.
On the community front, we have committed ourselves to expending 1% of our profit before tax to provide support for local communities in areas associated with our operations.
2002 Results The progress above has been made in a year which was characterised by pervasive weakness in commodity prices, sluggish economic activity in the countries of our major customers with the important exception of China, volatility in exchange rates, a severe and negative re-assessment of investor confidence in South Africa and turmoil and distrust in the global equity markets.
Including ferrochrome, where prices increased in the third and fourth quarters of 2002, the average 2002 prices of our commodities were lower than the previous year, reducing operating profit by some US$200 million.
Spot prices for thermal coal a key driver for Group profitability fell sharply from the second quarter with the European price dropping over 30% to US$20.50 tonne, and the Japanese reference price for Australian coal supply to Chubu Electric Power Company in Japan declined 7.7% to US$31.85 per tonne.
The significant industry-wide cut-backs of coal production in the second quarter, particularly the 7.5 million tonnes withdrawn from the Atlantic market, achieved their aim of aligning output more closely with demand.
This helped to ensure partial recovery in spot thermal coal prices, to reect the return of demand, at the year end.
6 Xstrata plc average average Indicative price: Indicative prices for commodities 2002 2001end-December 2002 Coal spot thermal FOB Richards Bay SA Coal Report US$ t 26.08 32.55 27.86 Coal spot thermal FOB Newcastle BJI US$ t 25.70 31.50 25.00 Coal Chubu Electric reference contract US$ t 31.85 34.50 31.85 Ferrochrome published: Metal Bulletin USc lb 30.00 32.35 33.50 Vanadium V2O5 published: Metal Bulletin US$ lb 1.34 1.38 1.60 Zinc LME US$ t 779.0 886.0 749.5 Spot Richards Bay to Europe based on 6,000 kcal kg NAR Spot Newcastle sales to Japan based on 6,700 kcal kg GAD Chubu Electric reference price is not an average and applies from 1 April each year In response to these difficult market conditions, the businesses have performed well, and continue to do so.
Our attraction to the strong cash-ow prole of the coal assets, which complements the resilient earnings of our alloys and zinc businesses, is well founded.
After deductions for net interest, tax and the capital required to maintain the operations, the Group had access to free cash of US$362 million in 2002.
Group turnover rose some 6% to US$1,991.3 million, on the back of acquisitions Ravensworth and Narama in coal, expansions San Juan in zinc, and Ulan, Mt Owen and the new longwall at United in coal, and the 25% improvement in sales volumes in ferrochrome, which necessitated the restart of idled production capacity.
At the operating level, earnings before exceptional items decreased US$109.9 million, or 26%, to US$314.9 million, primarily due to the negative impacts of lower prices US$197 million and ination, mostly in South Africa US$58.1 million.
These were offset by the positive impact of higher volumes US$68 million and exchange rates US$30.5 million, and cost efficiencies as set out below.
Pro forma % Operating Cost reductions in real terms: 2002 US$m Costs Ferrochrome 12.5 0.8 Vanadium 2.3 0.1 Alloys 14.8 0.9 Coal 37.3 2.2 Zinc 25.3 1.5 Other businesses 1.7 0.1 Total 79.1 4.7 Pro forma year ended 31.12.02 includes coal results in the P&L from 01.01.02 Xstrata plc 7 chief executives review Management in our operations succeeded in reducing costs in real terms by over US$79 million or 4.7% of the operating cost base, through a combination of cost efficiency programmes, productivity improvements and expansion projects.
These included: the seamless 35% expansion of the San Juan fide Nieva smelter, which was accompanied by a highly effective and sustainable cost-cutting programme across our entire zinc business, which improved the utilisation rate of the plant, reduced the costs of inputs and supplies, and optimised metallurgical processes: efficiency programmes at our alloys business, which reduced real costs by nearly US$15 million, in the face of increases in the local cost of reductants and other raw materials: the expansions at the Mt Owen opencast mine and Ulan, together with the commencement of longwall mining at United have helped reduce costs at Xstrata Coal Australia XCA by over 7% in local terms.
At Ulan, in particular, the higher productivity achieved since XCA acquired the mine in January 2001 has been significant: with productivity improving 25% and 15% at the opencast and underground mines respectively by end 2002: at Xstrata Coal South Africa XCSA, the technologies and systems which have helped to reduce South Witbank's free on rail costs to around US$6 tonne are being systematically implemented at other XCSA operations, such as Arthur Taylor Colliery, which achieved a 40% increase in underground section productivities over the course of 2002.
In addition, the 13% reduction in total employee numbers resulted in a 14% year-on-year increase in productivity run of mine tonnes per employee, including contractors.
Even after the US$58.1 million impact of ination, these initiatives represent a net gain across our business of US$21 million in 2002, equivalent to 1.25% of operating costs.
This is testimony to the dedicated effort and quality of the management teams at our operations, and I pay tribute to them for this outstanding achievement.
Net debt was US$573.9 million at 31 December 2002, with some US$804 million undrawn within our US$1.4 billion debt facility.
Free cash ow of US$362 million represents 63% of net debt at the year end.
Since the IPO, repayments against our debt facility have amounted to US$152 million.
The Gross debt to trailing 12 month EBITDA ratio under the Groups syndicated loan facility continues to be below 1.5 times resulting in a reduced drawn margin and commitment fee payable under this facility to the lowest applicable rate.
The net debt to equity percentage improved from 84.7% to 16.1% at 31 December 2002.
Xstratas Pipeline For Growth One of the key investment propositions set out at the time of the IPO was that there existed a niche in our industry for a fourth, London-listed, diversied metals and mining company, with headroom to grow.
It was our strong conviction that if Xstrata were to leverage the advantages of its size, momentum and financial structure to grow its portfolio, through steps that were in themselves value creating, then the market, in time, would reward the subsequent diversication of commodity, currency and earnings risk, by re-rating upwards the multiples on which we trade.
In the 12 months since our listing, we have pursued growth across three fronts.
In each, we have been clear about the financial criteria we apply.
We seek opportunities that ensure risk-adjusted returns above our weighted average cost of capital, without the application of aspirational assumptions on synergies or long-run prices, currencies and commodities, and which are accretive to earnings and cash ow in their first full year of ownership.
All of the projects currently under review, including potential transformational acquisitions, meet these criteria.
Incremental growth Almost simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, we purchased the Narama and Ravensworth coal operations in Australia for US$72.4 million.
In addition to increasing our attributable production capacity by some three million tonnes, the mines hold significant strategic value, given their proximity to other Xstrata mines.
8 Xstrata plc In early December, we announced the acquisition of the Nordenham zinc smelter from Metaleurop for US$100 million.
The acquisition is wholly consistent with our strategy to leverage our current balance sheet strength opportunistically, to acquire quality assets at the bottom of their commodity cycle.
Nordenham is an efficient plant, which complements the highly profitable San Juan smelter in terms of both operational and marketing synergies.
Given its robust cash generation prole, the acquisition, which closed early in January 2003, will be cash and earnings accretive from day one.
Early in January 2003, we announced the acquisition of a further 11.5% of the Oakbridge group of coal companies in Australia from Tomen Corporation for US$58 million.
The transaction, effective from 1 January, increases our shareholding in Oakbridge from 66.5% to 78%, and adds over a million tonnes of attributable export coal capacity to our Australian business from operations we know well and which we believe hold significant future potential.
In the 11 months of its existence, the Group has thus invested US$230 million on incremental acquisitions to its existing businesses, all of which are earnings accretive and all of which are expected to deliver returns comfortably in excess of our cost of capital.
We continue to assess further opportunities in this category.
In South Africa, one of the consequences of the introduction of the new mining legislation has been a number of discussions with Black Economic Empowerment Groups regarding joint ventures, which could entail the expansions of or acquisitions to our existing alloys and coal businesses.
Company transforming acquisitions Recognising the universe of the possible in which we operate, we have focused our energies on a small number of key potential transactions which, because of their scale, would have a dramatic impact on the size, diversity and rating of Xstrata.
In each case, our aim has been to assess whether the combination of businesses would create value for our shareholders.
Our approach to negotiations of this scale is deliberate and unhurried.
Our smaller size enhances the proportionate benets of any acquisition, but also heightens its risks.
Given the progress we have already made, and the robust performance of our asset base, we do not feel undue pressure to deliver a transaction, and while we are confident that we have the momentum and exibility to move quickly when we need to, we are also confident enough to move slowly, or not at all, when this will create or protect value.
At the end of last year, we made an announcement conrming that one of the companies with which we were in discussion was MIM Holdings.
At the time, we made a point of stressing that these talks were at an early stage.
We have continued to progress our contact with MIM, with appropriate diligence and with due regard for the uncertain outcome of our interaction.
Should matters develop to the point at which we either withdraw from discussions or conclude an agreement, we will immediately inform the market.
Irrespective of the outcome of discussions with MIM, I remain convinced of our capacity to create growth even perhaps especially in these difficult environments from acquisitions executed at the right price and right time.
Growth arising from our existing businesses Almost inevitably, any assessment of Xstratas growth by commentators has focused on potential acquisitions.
However, during the year the Executive Committee has given impetus and attention to the development of opportunities within our own portfolio.
These extend across each of our businesses: Xstrata plc 9 chief executives review Alloys In our Alloys business, immediate, highly exible growth is provided by the two idled ferrochrome furnaces, with a combined 120,000 tonnes of annual production capacity 9.2% of total capacity, which can quickly be brought back to meet demand in 2003 one of these furnaces is under lease to AngloPlatinum until end-April 2003.
In addition to working with Black Empowerment Groups regarding possible JVs in ferrochrome FeCr and vanadium, Xstrata Alloys has been approached and is working with a consortium in South Africa that is pursuing a major initiative to utilise unexploited mineral reserves that become available as part of the new Minerals Bill.
Xstratas proven record for lowcost capital development and operational management, particularly but not exclusively in respect of ferroalloys, has made us an attractive JV partner.
Xstrata Alloys holds rights over a reserve, holding some 20 million tonnes of platinum group metal PGM bearing UG2 ore, alongside our Thorncliffe Mine in the Eastern Bushveld.
Clearly, the ore is also attractive for the chromite it contains.
We are in discussions focussed on unlocking this reserve, in joint venture with one of the major platinum producers and a Black Economic Empowerment BEE partner.
Coal Australia One of the attractions of our coal business is the exible and low-cost growth opportunities inherent in the assets, especially in Australia, where some 12 million tonnes of new annual production capacity exist over the next 10 years.
These projects are being planned and developed, against stringent business criteria, to enable the business to grow in a manner consistent with our market projections.
Xstrata Coal has a rm pipeline of expansion projects to increase consolidated annual saleable production by approximately four million tonnes over 2002 levels, by 2005, for a capital investment of some US$60 million.
Production in 2003 is likely to increase some 0.7 million tonnes, primarily due to a full year of operation at Ravensworth East and Narama.
Capacity exists to increase production and sales volumes by a further three million tonnes in 2004, with the first full year of production at Beltana around 1.4 million tonnes, the commencement of Glendell 500,000 tonnes and increases at Mt Owen, West Wallsend and Ulan Opencast.
Underground mining at the Bulga complex will move from South Bulga to Beltana in 2003.
Beltanas reduced manning levels and advanced work practices, compared to conventional underground longwall mines, provide a highly competitive cost structure, which is thought to be among the lowest in Australia.
Beltana is expected to be a high productivity, low-cost operation that will further increase XCAs productivity and reduce the average unit cost of the business.
Furthermore, with its recent increased stake in the Oakbridge Group, Xstrata is well placed to benefit from this.
The Glendell project, which will contribute approximately two million tonnes of annual consolidated production, is scheduled to commence operations in 2004.
It will benefit from a low capital cost due to its development as a satellite pit linked to the Mt Owen infrastructure achieving exibility and synergies for both operations.
In addition, a number of other low cost, low risk opportunities are being assessed including a second longwall at Ulan, development of the synergistic opportunities that exist around the Mt.
Owen Ravensworth projects and development of the Mitchells Flat opencast mine.
Further opportunities to optimise reserve extraction and realise cost synergies across adjacent Xstrata operations are being pursued.
In addition, Xstrata has a number of innovative projects in various stages of investigation and development, such as coal bed methane extraction, longwall top coal caving and various power generation offtake agreements, which contribute to the Groups sustainable development.
10 Xstrata plc Coal South Africa Xstrata Coal South Africa XCSA is entering a strategically significant period of export growth, improved operating efficiencies and cost reductions.
The expansion of throughput at the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, from its current capacity of 72 million tonnes to 82 million tonnes by 2007, will enable high margin exports to be increased by 21% over the same period.
XCSAs 21% share in this increase in export volumes 2.1 million tonnes will be sourced from low-cost, browneld expansions of our existing high productivity cost-efficient mines, from the development of new capacity at the Goedgevonden and Verkeerderpan projects and from the switching of some lower margin domestic sales to the export market.
The low-cost prole and scale of the new expansion projects also provide the opportunity to phase out some higher cost production capacity.
This business improvement is further underpinned by reserve optimisation exercises that will increase reserves at Boschmans, Witcons, South Witbank, Tavistock, Phoenix and Douglas.
In addition, a pilot plant testing new technology for beneciating ne coal is operating at one of the XCSAs collieries and we are confident that this will deliver a meaningful step improvement in product yield at most of the XCSA operations.
A significant business opportunity exists in the outcome of discussions with industry partners regarding strategic reserve swaps, which could signicantly reduce cost proles at some of our operations, and the joint development of adjoining resources, which would substantially reduce the capital costs involved in bringing on additional production.
Zinc San Juan fide Nieva completed a successful 35% expansion of annual production capacity to 460,000 tonnes in the second half of 2001.
A further 25,000 tonnes per annum expansion started in November 2002, taking annual capacity at San Juan to 485,000 tonnes.
This project, which has a capital cost of US$6.2 million, is expected to be commissioned early in the third quarter of 2003.
As a consequence, San Juan is likely to increase production to between 470,000 and 475,000 tonnes in 2003.
In addition, Xstrata Zinc is working on two further projects at San Juan.
The first, which comprises a fide-bottlenecking of the roasting stage and modications to the electrodes, could increase annual production capacity to 492,000 tonnes.
The second, which centres on the use of direct leaching, could increase annual capacity by a further 45,000 tonnes to 537,000 tonnes nearly 17% above its current output.
Some of the operational synergies between San Juan and Nordenham are already reaping benets for our zinc business: the transfer of calcine from Spain to fide-bottleneck Nordenham is likely to increase the latters production by over 6,000 tonnes in 2003.
It is clear from the above, that while the further development of a world-class organic pipeline of growth is still an important outcome from any company transforming acquisition, the Group as it stands currently is well positioned to grow and add value from its current portfolio.
The South African Minerals Bill The observations I made regarding the South African Minerals Bill in my interim report remain wholly relevant, and our confidence in Xstratas ability to manage the increased complexity associated with doing business in South Africa remains intact, if not enhanced.
In the period since our report, the Department of Minerals and Energy Affairs DMEA has issued its Empowerment Charter, setting out governments targets for the transformation of the mining industry, and it has recently released a framework or scorecard which will enable it to assess the progress and plans of mining companies towards achieving these targets.
