Balfour Beatty plc Chief Executives review Annual report and accounts 2002 04 Performance In 2002, pre-tax, pre-exceptional profits before the amortisation of goodwill rose by 16% to 118m 2001: 102m on turnover up 12% Mike Welton Chief Executive at 3.441bn 2001: 3.071bn.
Earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items rose by 14% to 16.1p 2001: 14.1p.
A final dividend of 3.05p is proposed, making a total dividend for the year of 5.4p 2001: 5.0p per ordinary share.
21m was charged to the profit and loss account in respect of goodwill amortisation arising from our acquisitions over the last three years 2001: 12m.
As was announced in We were successful September 2002, 9m of exceptional costs were incurred as a result of the potential acquisition of J.
A. Jones Inc in the US 2001: 13m profit on sale of operations.
in achieving As a result, profit before interest but after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 119m 2001: 137m.
Cash flow was strong and, despite spending significant growth 68m on acquisitions, year-end net cash rose by 4m to 67m.
The Groups effective tax rate increased from 26% to 30% of profit before amortisation in our pre-tax profits of goodwill and exceptional items as results in the US prevented advantage being taken of significant outstanding US tax losses.
The year in summary We were successful in achieving significant growth in our pre-tax profits and earnings in Summary 2002, before the amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items.
Once again our operating Double-digit pre-tax profits and earnings growth cash flow was strong, fully underpinning operating profits, and working capital improved Record order book of 5.1bn with LUL PPP to come despite double-digit growth in our sales.
Strong operating cash performance Our year-end order book at 5.1bn increased by 19% during the course of Business mix further improved the year.
Before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 05 The year was not without its difficulties.
We continued to incur substantial unplanned In Engineering, our broadened range of UK costs in some civil engineering contracts on the expertise in infrastructure design, construction, East Coast of the US.
The Eastern division of upgrade and maintenance puts us in a very our US civil engineering business has not bid good position to benefit from increasing further work in 2002 and will not do so until infrastructure expenditure and to provide these contracts are successfully completed large-scale,  solutions.
In the In the US we will continue to increase our latter part of the year, TXU Europe, whose specific regional focus on areas where we subsidiaries are, respectively, a shareholder and have a strong market presence.
In the medium customer of Barking Power Station, entered term, the Engineering segment offers good administration.
This has brought 28% of opportunities for performance improvement.
Barking Power Stations output out of longIn Rail, we have created a coherent term contract and on to the open market at While general economic conditions have been organisation and clear market focus for a significantly lower prices.
Barking Power Limited mixed, our principal markets in large-scale public substantially larger business in a series of has lodged an appropriate claim against TXU infrastructure creation and care have remained national growth markets.
Once again, our Europes administrators and is confident strong and Balfour Beatty has had a very multi-disciplinary capabilities offer integrated of recovering a very substantial proportion successful year in securing its future workload.
solutions to our large customers.
We are very of the monies due under the contract.
Long-term contracts were won for road well placed for increasing spend on rail in the maintenance, gas and water utility services Developing our strategy UK, Europe, the US and Asia.
and facilities management in the UK: major A predominant and growing proportion of In Investments, we continue to concentrate road construction schemes also in the UK: our revenues derive from large-scale public our efforts in those areas in which we have rail, road and other large-scale infrastructure infrastructure creation and care and private formidable competitive strengths and where work in the US: rail electrification work in sector facility upgrade and maintenance.
we can be most selective transport, healthcare Italy: and large-scale transportation projects in The range and depth of our expertise in and education.
The application of this policy Hong Kong.
Preferred bidder status was achieved key markets, augmented further by fill-in has given us a quality portfolio and a high for three new PPP projects with a combined acquisitions, offers customers the advantage level of confidence in the returns which it value of some 330m.
of using our capabilities in appropriate will deliver over a long period.
The Metronet Since the year-end we have secured combination.
In each of our markets, this concessions will effectively double our additional road maintenance work of up capability increasingly differentiates Balfour committed equity investment in this area to 175m in value for the Highways Agency.
Beatty and appeals to the customer base.
The Metronet concessions for the London We have continued to make good progress The full investigation of the opportunity Underground PPP will reach financial in developing the strategy for each of our four to acquire J.
A. Jones Inc in the US demonstrated close shortly.
the Groups ambition to develop a domestic Acquisitions in utilities contracting, In Building, all of our operating companies US business, similar to our successful UK model.
electrical contracting, US rail maintenance are amongst the leaders in their individual Long-term expenditure patterns and procurement and security systems together with market segments.
Additionally, we now have trends indicate a substantial opportunity investment in more, high-quality PFI established critical mass and mix to compete for long-term growth through such a policy.
concessions will further strengthen the very effectively in the important and growing In December, we announced the business in our established areas of core market for major public buildings requiring appointment of a senior US manager to take expertise.
Once again, acquisitions have multi-disciplinary engineering, construction responsibility for our US businesses, which now been funded out of operating cash flow.
yield approximately $1bn of annual sales.
Chief Executives review continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 06 In October, in separate transactions, we acquired Walgrave, a UK distribution cable Our focus remains firmly on a small number service provider, which has become part of of simple but critical management priorities.
Balfour Beatty Power Networks, and Security We aim to sustain earnings growth.
We will International, a US electronic access control manage our working capital closely.
We will systems business, which is now part of account prudently and conservatively.
8m consideration has continue to develop the depth and breadth been paid as a result of these acquisitions.
of our expertise in areas where we have In each case, these acquisitions have existing knowledge and competitive strength.
In Investments and Developments, profits extended our existing core capabilities into We will take contracts and make investments increased by 9% to 49m 2001: 45m.
new geographic and or customer market only when the long-term interests of our Profits from Barking Power Station were lower environments and are performing to expectation.
due to planned maintenance outages and the impact of the problems at TXU Europe.
A. Jones Inc Segmental performance Income from PFI PPP concessions, however, During the summer, we undertook substantive In Building, Building Management and rose in line with plans.
In accordance with discussions and extensive due diligence Services, profits improved by 5% to 46m UITF 34, bid costs after appointment as with regard to the potential acquisition 2001: 44m.
The increase was largely preferred bidder have been capitalised.
A. Jones Inc, a leading US engineering, attributable to improving returns from construction and services group.
The Board the increasing proportion of work in the Acquisitions believed that the acquisition of Jones would large-scale complex building and building In March 2002, we paid 28m for Kentons, have created significant strategic and financial services markets.
the Yorkshire-based utility services contractor.
In order to maintain In Civil and Specialist Engineering and The company, which provides a complete an appropriate capital structure, a rights Services, profits fell to 17m 2001: 22m.
asset maintenance and replacement service issue would have been necessary to finance Improving performances in the UK civil and for the gas, water and wastewater sectors, the acquisition.
However, in the light of specialist engineering businesses, including has annual sales of approximately 75m.
the prevailing stock market conditions, road maintenance, combined with new profits At the beginning of 2003, the process of a rights issue became inappropriate and arising from the acquisition of Kentons in the integrating Kentons and John Kennedy, a the acquisition was not pursued further.
utility services sector were more than offset similar company acquired by Balfour Beatty in by further unplanned costs on US East Coast 2001, was initiated.
The combined company Safety and the environment civil engineering projects.
No account has now trades as Balfour Beatty Utilities and As last year, we will report under separate yet been taken of future recoveries on Balfour Beatty has become a market leader cover and in full on our safety, environmental these contracts.
and other aspects of our corporate social In Rail Engineering and Services, profits In March, we purchased Knox Kershaw performance.
We have continued to make improved by more than 50% to 37m a US market leader in providing specialist rail good progress in safety management and 2001: 24m.
This excellent result reflected maintenance services to class one railroads in performance in the UK and the US, but have significantly increased profits from Balfour the US, for approximately $6m.
performed less well elsewhere, which is Beatty Rail Power Systems, our European In September, a 49% share in Romec, the subject of urgent management attention.
electrification and power supply business, the company responsible for the maintenance During the year, we conducted an particularly in Italy, and profit progress in all and management of the Royal Mails extensive environmental benchmarking our UK businesses.
In Infrastructure Services, nationwide estate of over 3,000 buildings, exercise across our UK operations.
underlying profit improvements were was acquired for 9.6m.
This acquisition This revealed further good progress over augmented by settlements resulting from brought with it a facilities services and the last 12 months and reflected increasing the resolution of outstanding issues on a maintenance contract worth over 600m strategic and operational focus on the number of long-term contracts.
to Balfour Beatty over seven years.
Before amortisation of goodwill see Note 1 Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 07 The Chairman On 4 February 2003, Lord Weir announced his intention to retire as Chairman of Balfour Beatty at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2003.
Lord Weir joined the Board of the Company then BICC in 1977 and became its Chairman in 1996.
As Chairman he led the Group with great skill through a very difficult period in the late 1990s and oversaw its transformation from a worldwide cable manufacturing and construction business into the current construction, engineering and services group.
The Group, the staff and particularly myself are deeply indebted to Lord Weir for his patient guidance and leadership through a very complex period.
Throughout his time at the Company, he has exhibited a fierce and unfailing pride in its qualities and achievements and we thank him and wish him a long and happy retirement.
Outlook In UK infrastructure, spending plans for transport, education, health, water and gas markets are ambitious and we believe that these markets will continue to offer us good opportunities.
PFI, prime contracting and design and construct, all Balfour Beatty strengths, Corporate responsibility remain the UK Governments preferred and the environment procurement methods.
The trend in the UK Balfour Beattys Safety, to outsourcing of building and infrastructure management and maintenance will also continue Environment and Social to the benefit of our services companies.
Report will be published In the US, federal and state spending on road transportation projects seems likely to in May.
It will be available remain strong and other publicly funded markets by application to the should continue to offer substantial opportunity.
With the majority of the Groups work Company and online at being financed by public sector organisations, www.
much of it in major capital or long-term service contracts, Balfour Beatty is not as Corporate responsibility is exposed to the commercial sector as others a fundamental part of modern in its peer group.
Business opportunities from private sector clients in most of our areas of business management.
We continue to make progress With growing income from PFI PPP investments, established leadership in rail in safety and environmental infrastructure contracting, significant scope for management and in fulfilling performance improvement in civil engineering and a strong position in the UK major building our wider responsibilities market, we believe that we are able to as a corporate citizen.
