Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 02: Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement We are pleased to report another year of strong progress in the development of Canary Wharf.
We are pleased to Despite a challenging market, during the year we have secured a higher level of rental report another year of commitments, 1.45 million sq ft, and also achieved a higher level of rent than in the previous strong progress in the year against a backdrop of a lettings slowdown and rental falls elsewhere in the London development of market.
The Canary Wharf estate currently has more than 14 million sq ft of space completed Canary Wharf or under construction, which is more than was anticipated at the time of flotation in 1999, with only 0.6 million sq ft of office space uncommitted.
We have also acquired a further 1.7 million sq ft of density which will bring the total development on the original Canary Wharf estate to 15.7 million sq ft and together with recently acquired adjacent sites, will enable us to continue the development of Canary Wharf.
We now have the potential to lift the development to around 20 million sq ft and the ability to respond to client needs over the foreseeable future.
At the start of 2002 we were running the largest building programme in London with 8.2 million sq ft underway, of which 91.7% is now committed.
We completed five buildings on time and on budget during the year, totalling approximately 2.7 million sq ft. We currently have ten buildings totalling 5.5 million sq ft of office and retail underway, complemented by significant public spaces such as parks and winter gardens.
The strong performance The strong performance of the group during the year, as explained below in the financial of the group during the review, will enable us to accelerate our return of capital programme.
In March 2002 we year will enable us to outlined plans to return 2.0 billion to shareholders through a balanced combination of accelerate our return of 750 million of share buy-backs and structured returns of 250 million in each of 2003, 2004 capital programme by and 2005.
The final 500 million will follow on development of the four remaining sites on the means of a special original Canary Wharf estate.
In the 14 month period since June 2001, 501 million has been dividend of 375 million returned to shareholders through share buy-backs.
The rapid pace of development has also payable in December 2002 enabled us to bring forward our financing so that half of the 750 million structured returns are intended to be paid by a 375 million special dividend payable in December 2002.
We will also be continuing our share buy-back programme this year.
At this stage the balance of the return of capital programme remains unaltered.
This progress would not have been possible without the continuing commitment and dedication of staff at all levels, to whom the board express their appreciation and thanks.
Financial Review The results for the year The results for the year ended 30 June 2002 demonstrate the groups continuing strong ended 30 June 2002 performance.
Turnover increased from 159.2 million in 2001 to 206.8 million for 2002, an demonstrate the groups increase of 29.9%.
The increase in turnover fed through to an increase of 38.5 million in continuing strong operating profit for the year, before exceptional items, to 130.2 million.
In addition the group performance recognised a profit of 169.5 million on the planned disposal of 8 Canada Square to HSBC, which was completed in April 2002, and realised deferred consideration of 13.4 million relating to the disposal of an undertaking in 1996.
Consequently profit before interest and tax was 310.7 million, 130.2 million excluding exceptional items, against 91.3 million for the previous year.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement :03 Profit before tax for 2002 was 203.1 million, or 22.6m before exceptional items, in comparison with 42.5 million for the previous year.
This was attributable to the increase in net interest payable from 48.8 million to 107.6 million as a result of the securitisations completed in June 2001 and February 2002.
These debt issues funded the share buy-back programme, as well as completion of the seven properties totalling 4.6 million sq ft included in the securitisations.
These innovative long term financings were drawn down ahead of practical completion of the related properties, so enabling the acceleration of the return of capital programme whilst also releasing the groups construction facilities for other projects.
Adjusted net asset value Net assets increased to 1,860.3 million at 30 June 2002, an increase of 263.9 million over per share increased the year.
Before share buy-backs the increase in the year in net assets was 656.3 million.
from 6.97 per share On the adjusted net asset value basis, which revalues properties under construction and to 7.05 per share at held for development to their net realisable value and adds back the provision for deferred 30 June 2002 tax, the net asset value per share increased from 6.97 per share at 30 June 2001 to 7.05 per share at 30 June 2002 before dilution.
We continue to believe that this is the best means of evaluating the long term value of the business.
The increase in net asset value reflected in the groups statutory balance sheet demonstrates the progress made in realising that long term value, whilst the share buy-back programme evidences our commitment to the return of capital to shareholders.
Capital Structure Further to the securitisation and issue of Notes in May 2000 and the 875 million tap issue in June 2001, 1,257 million of additional Notes were issued in February 2002.
This was our largest issue to date.
Four new office buildings were added to the asset pool and out of the 1,257 million raised 88% was rated AAA.
These new properties have been completed or are at various stages of construction, due to be completed between May 2003 and August 2003, and have been pre-let to Morgan Stanley, Lehman Brothers, Northern Trust and Clifford Chance LLP.
During the period share An important part of the 2 billion return of capital is our share buy-back programme.
During buy-backs totalled the period share buy-backs totalled 392 million which, together with buy-backs executed 392 million which in the previous year and following the year end, brings the total return of capital to brings the total return 501 million with a total of 104.6 million shares cancelled to date.
Notwithstanding the of capital to date proposed accelerated structured return of 375 million, the share buy-back programme will to 501 million continue and is projected to return a further 250 million.
Leasing Activity The last twelve months have been challenging for the Central London Office market with a take up of just over 10.4 million sq ft. During the same period the Canary Wharf district accounted for approximately 1.8 million sq ft of this take up, out of which the Canary Wharf Group lettings outlined overleaf totalled 1.45 million sq ft. Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 04: Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Barclays signed an agreement to lease 1 million sq ft in a single building in November 2001.
It is anticipated that they will initially occupy approximately 650,000 sq ft. Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom leased approximately 133,300 sq ft at 40 Bank Street in December 2001.
The Northern Trust Company exercised an option over 18,000 sq ft in 50 Bank Street in January 2002 bringing their total occupation to 151,400 sq ft. EMEA exercised an option in January 2002 over 15,700 sq ft in 7 Westferry Circus in January 2002 bringing their total occupation to approximately 100,000 sq ft. Waitrose increased their space requirement by 20,000 sq ft in February 2002 taking their occupation to 100,000 sq ft. Clifford Chance exercised their option over 209,000 sq ft on the remainder of 10 Upper Bank Street in April 2002 bringing their total long term occupation to 1 million sq ft. Allen & Overy exchanged contracts to lease 78,200 sq ft in 40 Bank Street in June 2002.
During the period we have continued to secure long term tenancies on pre-lets.
Including the The average length of above tenancies, the average length of unexpired tenancies at Canary Wharf excluding break unexpired tenancies is clauses is 23.6 years and 20.9 years including break clauses.
20.9 years including break clauses In addition, we have seen positive sub-letting activity within the estate which has brought new tenants to Canary Wharf in space which could be delivered to match the timeframe required by the tenant.
In particular, CSFB agreed in April to sub-let approximately 275,000 sq ft to Bank of America in 5 Canada Square.
Leasing on Jubilee Place, the 89,500 sq ft next phase of retail development, has also been very strong with 24 units committed, representing 66% of the total square footage, with the other remaining 14 units under offer.
This is an excellent achievement given the expected opening date of September 2003 and reflects the success of Canary Wharf as a thriving retail destination serving the estate and wider area.
New retail tenants next year will include Marks & Spencer, French Connection, Karen Millen and Molton Brown.
Whilst overall vacancy rates in Central London increased to 9.2 % only 15% of the available space is classified as new and a large proportion of overall supply 40% is in small fragmented units.
The Canary Wharf district has the highest proportion of grade A new accommodation and the lowest current vacancy rate for space completed and available for occupation of any Central London submarket at 4.5%, of which only 80,000 sq ft of space is attributable to Canary Wharf Group and 360,000 sq ft are tenant disposals.
As take up has reduced and supply increased there has been a reduction in and continuing downward pressure on rents in most of the Central London sub-markets particularly in the fragmented second-hand sector.
The reduction in prime rents in both the West End and City largely occurred in the latter part of 2001.
Whilst prime rents remain under pressure they are reported to have maintained their level in the last two quarters, although this may also be due to a lack of transactional evidence.
The rents achieved at Canary Wharf in open market lettings have been up to approximately 45 psf on accommodation due for completion by the middle of next year.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement :05 Future supply of offices is another important factor.
There is currently 6.8 million sq ft We have ten buildings of speculative construction underway across Central London with delivery spanning from totalling 5.5 million sq ft 2002 to 2005.
The majority of speculative development is focused on the City accounting for under construction 56% of the Central London total.
Our policy has been to control the amount of speculative of which only space which we have available at any one time.
Although we have ten buildings totalling 0.6 million sq ft 5.5 million sq ft under construction, only 0.6 million sq ft is new speculative Grade A office is speculative space which will be available in the second quarter of next year.
In accordance with our stated policy of only having one speculative building underway at any time, it would not be our intention to commence another building until this space has been substantially let and the market has improved meaningfully.
Demand has reduced across Central London in the last 12 months by approximately one third and currently stands at approximately 11.75 million sq ft.
However, in the last quarter we were able to report an improvement in viewing levels compared with earlier in the year.
These levels of viewing have been maintained during the course of the summer.
There is, we believe, a greater focus by occupiers on cost and value for money whilst retaining a preference for high quality office accommodation.
This value orientated demand will, we believe, be attracted to locations such as Canary Wharf that offer the best quality new accommodation and an attractive working environment on competitive financial terms.
Construction During the year the group completed the construction of five properties, four of which were retained as investment properties and one of which was sold.
The aggregate area of these buildings was approximately 2.7 million sq ft.
The investment properties include 25 Canada Square leased to Citigroup, 15 Westferry Circus leased to Morgan Stanley and 50 Bank Street part let to The Northern Trust Company.
8 Canada Square is a building which was sold on completion, in April 2002, to HSBC under terms entered into in October 1998.
There are currently ten buildings under construction at Canary Wharf, 5 Canada Square let to CSFB and part sub-let to Bank of America, 1 Churchill Place let to Barclays, 20 Canada Square part let to The McGraw-Hill Companies, 20 Bank Street let to Morgan Stanley, 25-30 Bank Street let to Lehman Brothers, 40 Bank Street part let to Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and Allen & Overy, 10 Upper Bank Street let to Clifford Chance LLP, Canada Place Retail extension predominantly let to Waitrose and Reebok, the Jubilee Place Retail Centre 38 units and the Churchill Place Retail Centre.
Future Development The total permitted In November an agreement was reached with British Waterways Board to remove a development on the restrictive covenant affecting the remaining development sites within Canary Wharf.
This original Canary Wharf agreement increases the area of potential development by 1.7 million sq ft and brings the estate has increased to total permitted development on the original Canary Wharf estate to 15.7 million sq ft. 15.7 million sq ft We have been working on the infrastructure works and pre-staging to street level for 850,000 sq ft of development on two sites adjacent to the new Barclays building.
Once this work is completed it will be possible to deliver a pre-let to a new tenant in a much reduced timeframe.
This reflects our policy of controlling the amount of speculative building underway whilst positioning ourselves to be able to respond rapidly to client needs.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 06: Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement As a developer we believe it necessary to maintain focus on our core skill of providing the We will be submitting high quality, cost efficient space that both national and international businesses require.
detailed planning To that end we will be submitting detailed planning applications on three sites within the applications on three next few months.
On Riverside the Rogers Partnership has designed a family of 3 buildings sites within the next totalling 1.8 million net sq ft. On North Quay a composition of three buildings designed by few months Cesar Pelli will provide up to 2.4 million sq ft of commercial space together with the commitment to quality retail and open spaces that our clients demand.
This will be integrated with a proposed station for Crossrail.
Both compositions will be of the highest architectural merit which we always aim to achieve.
We are also undertaking detailed design work on a further site which lies between Riverside and Heron Quays in which we already have a significant interest.
During the year the Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, produced the Draft London Plan, his Spatial Development Strategy for Greater London.
The plan emphasises the underlying growth of Londons population and employment and reinforces the importance of East London and the Canary Wharf district in meeting anticipated growth both for housing and commercial space.
The Mayor forecasts that, over the next 15 years, employment in financial and business services will grow by over 440,000 people, which indicates a need for net incremental office space of between 7 million and 9.2 million sq m 75 to 100 million sq ft. More than 50% of this incremental space is forecast for the eastern sub region which encapsulates Stratford and, critically, the corridor from east of the City through Canary Wharf and the Isle of Dogs to the Greenwich peninsula and the Royal Docks.
The Canary Wharf district is seen as a focal point for growth.
Transport We have continued to Both the Mayor and the Government recognise that the continued growth of London, and in work closely with the particular East London, is critically dependent on enhanced transport provision.
We believe relevant bodies to ensure that Crossrail, when approved, will stimulate the next wave of investment in East London in there is a phased which our developments will be pivotal.
programme of transport We have continued to work closely with all the relevant bodies to ensure there is a phased investment to meet programme of transport investment to meet future needs.
In that respect we are delighted future needs that the Government, Mayor and Transport for London TfL have recently announced the extension of the Dockland Light Railway DLR to London City Airport and that the Mayor has re-emphasised that further river crossings to the east of Canary Wharf are a key priority.
We maintain a close working relationship with the DLR which has recently increased both its fleet of trains and its service levels.
The new station at Heron Quays which opens this November is a significant example of the public and private sector working together.
The project was jointly financed by Canary Wharf and the DLR and constructed by Canary Wharf while the DLR continued to run normally.
We are also working with the DLR on its plan to provide 3 car working on the line.
This is now within the DLR and TfLs corporate plan.
The Jubilee Line is working at improved levels of efficiency.
The critical issue being addressed now is increasing the capacity.
There is, in principle, agreement on the works to be carried out over the short, medium and long term which will provide for increased capacity including a more robust service, longer trains, extended peak hours and increased train frequency which will provide for the expected and future population at Canary Wharf.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002
